                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 36172-BR




                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                               PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE
                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUST FUND

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.18 MILLION


                                            TO THE

                            FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                            FORTHE

               INTEGRATEDMANAGEMENTOF AQUATIC RESOURCES
                     INTHEAMAZON REGIONPROJECT(AQUABIO)

                                          May 15,2006



Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopment Sector ManagementUnit
Brazil CountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 31,2004)


                             Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                     R$2.75    = US$1

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1     - December31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACTO        Amazon CooperationTreaty Organization
AM          State of Amazonas
AMA         Monitoringand Analysis Project (under the RainForest Program)
ANA         National Water Agency
AP          Action Programfor integrated managementof aquatic resources
APP         Permanent Conservation Area
ARPA        Amazon RegionProtectedAreas Project
CAS         World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
CBD         Convention on Biological Diversity
CEPNOR      FishingResearchandManagement Center for the NorthernRegion-IBAMA
CONABIO     National Biodiversity Commission
DIFLOR      ForestryDirectorate-MMA
ELETRONORTE Northern Brazil Electric EnergyUtility Company
EMPAER      Rural Extensionand ResearchCompany of Mato Grosso
FASE        Association of Organizations for Social and Educational Assistance
SEMA        State Secretariat of Environment o f Mato Grosso
FVA         VitbriaAmaz6nica Foundation
GEF BA      Integrated and Sustainable Management of Transboundary Water Resourcesinthe
            Amazon RiverBasin Project
GOB         Government of Brazil
GTA         Amazon Working Group (Associationof Amazon NGOs)
IABIN       Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
IBAMA       Brazilian Institute for the Environment and RenewableNatural Resources
INPA        Amazon National ResearchInstitute
IPAM        Environmental ResearchInstitute
IPfi        EcologicalResearchInstitute
ISA         Socio-EnvironmentalInstitute
KFW         German DevelopmentBank
MCT         Ministryof Science andTechnology
MDA         Ministryof Agrarian Development
MMA         Ministryof Environment
MT          State of Mato Grosso
NBP         National Biodiversity Policy
NEP I1      Brazil SecondNational Environmental Project
NRPP        NaturalResources Policy Project, RainForest Program
OAS         Organizationof American States
OEMA        State EnvironmentalAgencies

ONGARA       EnvironmentalOrganization for the "Roncador Araguaia" Area
PA           State ofPara
PCU          Project CoordinationUnit
PD/A         Type A Demonstration Projects,RainForest Pilot Program
PEPE         State Program of Strategic Preservation of RiparianForests inMato Grosso
PIX          XinguIndigenous Park
POA          Annual Operational Plan
PPA          Multi-Year Plan of the Brazilian Government
PPDS-JUS     Community Plan for the SustainableDevelopment of the Area Downstreamfrom the
             UHETucuruiDam
PPG7/RFT     Pilot Program to Conservethe Brazilian Rain Forest
PROAMBIENTE  Socio-Environmental Development Program for Smallholder
             Agriculture
PROBIO       National Biodiversity Project
ProManejo    Forest Resources Management Project (under the Rain Forest Program)
PRONABIO     National Biodiversity Program
ProVarzea    Brazil Amazon FloodplainNatural ResourcesManagement Project
RESEX        Support to Extractivist Reserves I1Project
RFT          Rain Forest Trust Fund
SBF          MMA`s SecretariatofBiodiversity and Forests-MMA
SDS          Amazon State Secretariatof the Environment and Sustainable Development
SIBA         Freshwater Biodiversity Information System
SIPAM        Amazon Protection System
SIVAM        Amazon Surveillance System
             National System of Conservation Units
uc
SNUC
             Conservation Unit or Protected Area
UFAM         Federal Universityof Amazonas
UFPA         Federal University of Para
UNEMAT       State University of Mato Grosso
UNESCO       UnitedNations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization

                            Vice President:        Pamela Cox
               Country ManagedDirector:            John Briscoe
                          Sector Manager:          Abel Mejia
                        Task Team Leader:          Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga / Adriana
                                                   Moreira

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                             BRAZIL
     IntegratedManagementof Aquatic Resourcesinthe AmazonRegion.AquaBio

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................  6
 1.   Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                6
 2.   Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                     8
 3.   Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                 8

B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................    9
 1.   Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................               9
 2.   Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                9
 3.   Project components .............................................................................................................             9
 4.   Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design..........................................................                                 13
 5.   Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................                               13

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                   ........................................................................................................      14
  1.  Project Implementation Strategy.......................................................................................                       14
 2.   Partnership arrangements ..................................................................................................                  16
 3.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................                               16
 4.   Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results .................................................                                             18
  5.  Sustainability and Replicability ........................................................................................                    19
  6.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                             20
  7.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                           20

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                          .................................................................................................      21
  1.  Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                       21
  2.  Technical ...........................................................................................................................        21
  3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................        22
  4.  Social................................................................................................................................. 22
  5.  Environment......................................................................................................................            24
  6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................              24
  7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                        24

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                        .........................................................  25

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                  .................32
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................      33

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................       42

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        60

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                .................................................................................        61

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                           .....................................   67

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................        71

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 .............................................................................       75

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues and Indigenous People's Strategy                                       ..................................  77

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File              .................................................................................        91

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................       92

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................        96

Annex 15: Incremental Cost Analysis           .......................................................................................        98

Annex 16: STAP Roster Review         ..............................................................................................         110

Annex 17: Map ofthe Project Area          .........................................................................................         113

                                        BRAZIL

      INTEGRATEDMANAGEMENT OF AQUATIC RESOURCES INTHE AMAZON
                                       (AQUABIO)

                                   PROJECT DOCUMENT

                           LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                         LCSEN

Date: May 15,2006                            Team Leader: Adriana Moreira/ Maria Isabel
Country Director: John Briscoe               Braga
Sector ManagedDirector: Abel Mejia           Sectors: Generalagriculture, fishing and
Project ID: PO66535                          forestry sector (5O%);Sub-national government
FocalArea: Biodiversity                      administration (50%)
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan Themes: Biodiversity (P);Land administration
                                             and management (P); Water resource
                                             management (P)
                                             Environmental screeningcategory: Partial
                                             Assessment


[ ]Loan    [ ]Credit    [XI Grant [ ]Guarantee    [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00




Borrower:
Federative Republic of Brazil
Ministerio da Fazenda- PGFN
Esplanadados Ministerios Bloco P
Brasilia, DF
Brazil
70048-900 Fax: (55-11) 3412-1740

ResponsibleAgency:
Ministerio do Meio Ambiente
Secretariade Biodiversidade e Florestas
Esplanadados Ministerios Bloco B
Brasilia

Project implementation period: Start July 1,2006 End: June 30,2012
Expected effectiveness date: September 1, 2006
Expected closing date: August 31,2012
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?




Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref; PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component 1: Planning and Public Policiy - Objective is to ensure the institutional and financial
sustainability o f Action Programs integrated managemetn o f aquatic resources (APs) inthree
sub-basins o f the Brazilian Amazon.
 Component 2: DemonstrationActivities - Objective i s to develop demonstration activities
targeting various productive sectors, providing inputs for the development o f the APs.
 Component 3: BuildingCapacity - Objective i s to prepare stakeholders, especially local ones, to
be able to actively participate inthe formulation, implementation, and monitoring o f strategies
and action plans aimed at the conservation and sustainable use o f aquatic resources inthe
Amazon Basin.
 Component 4: Project Management, Monitoringand Evaluation (M&E), and Information
Dissemination - The objectives are to coordinate, manage, and monitor actions developed under

the scope o f the project, and to foster integration among the various components, as well as with
other related projects and programs, to indicate the possible need for changes inproject
development, and to disseminate results at local, state, regional (Brazilian Amazon), national and
international levels.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10'
OP 4.01; OP. 4.04; OP 4.09; OD 4.20; and OP 4.36.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Board presentation:
None
Loadcredit effectiveness:
None
Covenants applicable to project implementation:


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

The Amazon basin covers an area o f approximately 7,000,000 km2,o f which about 58%
(4,100,000 km2)i s located inBrazil. From a biodiversity perspective, the Amazon basin i s
unequalled; i t i s home to the world's richest assemblages o f freshwater flora and fauna, including
3,000 fish species, approximately one third o fthe world's entire freshwater ichthyofauna. Many
of the region's economic activities are based on the use o f aquatic resources, which are
increasingly at risk due to the uncontrolled and poorly planned expansion o f high-impact
activities inthe Basin. The unchecked development o f such activities affect water quality,
biodiversity, and the availability o f fish resources. Inaddition, these activities are also source of
a growing number of conflicts among resource users, such as, fewer income generation
opportunities for riverine dwellers (vibeivinhos), reduced availability o fjobs, and impacts on
health and quality o f life o f local communities, especially indigenous groups, from water
contamination and poorer nutrition due to reduced availability o f fish.

The Amazon's aquatic ecosystems, its natural resources, and human communities dependent on
them, are increasingly at risk from a number o f threats, including: (i)                      direct use o f aquatic
resources at unsustainable levels through hunting(turtles, manatees) and fishing (commercial,
aquarium trade, sport fishing), leadingto the over-exploitation o f some species such as tambaqui,
piramutaba, pirarucu, and the cardinal tetra; (ii)               direct contamination o f rivers by increased
dumpingof organic and solid waste from expanding urban areas andminingactivities; iii)
changes inland use inuplandareas (deforestation, expanding cattle ranching, urbanization)
resulting ingreater sediment loads and run-off contamination from fertilizers and pesticides; (iv)
direct habitat conversion o f riparian ecosystems from expansion o f water buffalo grazing in
floodplains (vcirzeas), agriculture and urbanization; and from (v) changes inflood and
hydrological regimes from infrastructure (dams and navigation channels). A a root cause analysis
of factors impacting globally significant biodiversity, inselected sub-basins, i s presented in
Annex 1, Table 1.

The Federal Government has responded to such problems by designing and implementing
policies, programs, and projects, aimed mainly at sustainable management o f floodplain natural
resources. At the policy level, the government has enacted the National Biodiversity Policy
(NBP) that provides an appropriate framework for present and future actions on conservation and
sustainable use o f aquatic resources. Inaddition, the National Water Agency (ANA) intends to
intensify its efforts to implement the National Water Policy inthe Amazon Basin, where
conflicts over the use o f aquatic resources will probably constitute the bulk o f the issues
discussed by the future River Basin Committees. Actions from such programs and projects
include, among others: (i)          the establishment o f a mosaic ofprotected areas; (ii)                 on-the-ground
testing o f co-management' o f fisheries resources; (iii)                improvement and strengthening o f

'In the Brazilian Amazon, co-management o f fisheries resources involves negotiated agreements among various users o f the
resource, including riverine communities, commercial fishermen, and the National Environmental Protection Agency (Ibama).
These agreements are aimed at finding locally adapted solutions for the implementation of national policies regarding the use o f
fisheries resources, and can include issues such as: where commercial fisheries can be practiced; who has access to the resources
in a certain area; which species can be captured and at what times of the year; etc. Some successful experiences with co-
management initiatives along the SolimaesiAmazonas River have been supported by the ProVBrzea Project and by the MamirauB

                                                                                                                           6

monitoring and enforcement systems; and (iv) capacity buildingfor sustainable resource use.
Implementation of such projects has shown that threats can be addressedlocally, and even
threats originating from large-scale processes, such as land conversion and urbanization, can be
mitigated through better implementation and coordination o fpolicies, laws, and improved inter-
institutional coordination.

Despite all these efforts, a series o f constraints have made it difficult to effectively address the
threats to the Amazon Basin: (i)         public policies are insufficiently articulated across sectors to
effectively address threats; (ii)     weak organizational and institutional capacity at the basin, state,
and local levels to deal with these issues in a participatory and integrated manner; (iii)
insufficient availability of information that policy makers and resource managers need to make
good decisions; and (iv) insufficient knowledge about alternatives for the sustainable use o f land
and aquatic resources, especially those that generate economic benefits for local communities
while also generating positive impacts on aquatic biodiversity.

Inorder to achieve effective conservation ofaquatic ecosystems within the diversity andvastness
of the Brazilian Amazon, general plans and policies must reflect local ecological, cultural, and
socioeconomic characteristics. From an ecological point o f view, it i s important to take into
account the diversity o f river systems inthe region. There are basically three distinct river types
within the Amazon: (i)      sediment-rich "whitewater" rivers, such as the Amazon itself, that are
rich innutrients; (ii)   "clearwater" rivers, relatively nutrient poor, and that can range from
alkaline to acidic; and (iii)    "blackwater" rivers, with very acidic waters that are nearly devoid of
sediments and nutrients, but which have a dark color due to natural dissolved organic matter such
as tannins. The interactions between river types, flood regimes,and distinct riparian ecosystems
are responsible for a complex mosaic o f aquatic habitats that characterize the Brazilian Amazon.
From a social point o f view, any approach will require the involvement o f all stakeholders ina
process of discussion, conflict resolution and decision-making within an integrated ecosystem
management framework, with the objective o f addressing threats to aquatic biodiversity, water
resources, and quality o f human life.

The proposed AquaBio Project aims at testing the development and implementation o f an
innovative approach to the conservation and sustainable use o f aquatic ecosystems inthree sub-
basins that, together with the Floodplain Natural Resources Management Project (ProVarzea),
would provide a representative sample o f Amazonian aquatic ecosystems and problems that
affect them. The lessons and results generated by the project would facilitate the mainstreaming
of aquatic biodiversity concerns into production landscapes and sectors, and ensure that
conservation and sustainable use o fbiodiversity i s properly included indecision-making
processes associated with the hture establishment and operation o f local watershed or sub-basin
committees.

Countrv Eligibility: Brazil ratified the CBD on June 13, 1994




Sustainable Development Reserve, and initial data indicates positive results for the conservation of aquatic resources, especially
fish.


                                                                                                                            7

Countrv Driveness: The Project would contribute directly to the implementation o f the National
Biodiversity Policy, and would also support implementation o f the National Water Policy inthe
Amazon basin.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The AquaBio Project i s one o f the elements inthe Bank's strategy for re-engagement inthe
Amazon, and i s the only new operation focused on freshwater ecosystems. Its emphasis on the
mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity considerations into sector policies will benefit from the
Bank's existing experience infacilitating dialogue for public policy discussion, and inassuming
the role o fmediator among regional, national, sub-national, and local actors in seeking consensus
for the solution of multiple demands on "shared" natural resources.

Mainstreaming o f environmental concerns into sector policies i s being supported inBrazilby a
large Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainabilitywith an associated Technical
Assistance Loan. Elsewhere inLatin America, the Conservation o f Biodiversity inthe High
Andes Project o f Colombia is financing a successful component to integrate biodiversity
considerations into sector-wide policies, and a long-standing Bank support to the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor, through a large number o f projects and activities, has already
institutionalized a new attitude toward biodiversity conservation inMesoamerica. The AquaBio
would also complement and support the actions o f other existing Bankprojects inthe Brazilian
Amazon, such as ProVhrzea, Forest Resources Management Project (ProManejo), Ecological
Corridors Project, and Amazon RegionProtected Areas Project (ARPA), as well as the proposed
Para IntegratedDevelopment Project (under preparation).

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The project supports a major pillar o f the Bank's Regional Environment Strategy and i s
consistent with the Bank's and Brazil's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), contributing to two
of its three long-term objectives: (i) improvement o f water quality and o f water resources
management; and (ii)    sustainable management o f land, forests, and biodiversity (CAS Table 10).
The project would also significantly contribute to one o f the five pillars identified inthe CAS
(Environment and Natural Resources Management), addressing three issues identified therein: (i)
natural resources management, including water, forests, and soils; (ii)   environmental protection
and management, including the development o f linkages among actors/stakeholders regarding
environmental issues; and (iii)   global environmental externalities, including biodiversity.

The project's objectives are fully consistent with the provisions o f the GEF Operational Strategy,
and specifically with the Operational Program (OP) for Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater
Ecosystems (OP2), with additional relevance to the OP for Integrated Land and Water Multiple
Focal Area (OP9). The project fully supports the GEF Strategic Priority #2 for the Biodiversity
Focal Area (Mainstreaming Biodiversity inProduction Landscapes and Sectors), as it seeks to
internalize the objectives o f conservation and especially the sustainable use o f aquatic
biodiversity inthe various sector programs and policies throughout the Amazon, especially
fisheries, agriculture, and, to a lesser extent, miningand tourism.



                                                                                               8

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The project (total of US$ 17.13 m) would be partially financed by a GEF grant inthe amount o f
US$7.18 m, with co-financing from (i) resources (US$6.78 m); (ii)
                                            GOB                             resources from re-
directedbaseline (US$2.02 m); (iii) (US$0.48 m); (iv) G o A M (US$0.59 m); (v) project
                                       GoMT
beneficiaries (US$0.08 m).

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

The project's development obiective i s to support the mainstreamingo f a multi-stakeholder,
integrated management approach to the conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater
biodiversity inpublic policies and programs inthe Brazilian Amazon River Basin. This would in
part be achieved through the generation and dissemination o f sub-regional experiences that
promote and facilitate the adoption o f such an integrated management approach inthe whole
Amazon Basin. The global environmental obiective i s to reduce threats to the integrity o f
freshwater ecosystems inthe Brazilian Amazon, and assure the conservation and sustainable use
o f its freshwater biodiversity o f global importance.

Although some aspects o f project implementation would target all states inthe Brazilian
Amazon, most project activities would take place inportions o f the following three sub-basins
(project target areas), selected due to their importanceto freshwater biodiversity and because
they encompass the main problems that afflict freshwater ecosystems inthe Brazilian Amazon
(see selection criteria inAnnex 1): (a) lower and middle Negro river (high fishingpressure and
presence o f ornamental fisheries trade); (b) headwaters o f the Xingu river (impacts o f land
degradation on freshwater ecosystems); and (c) lower Tocantins river, below the Tucurui
hydropower dam (negative impacts on freshwater fisheries from construction o f a hydropower
dam).

The key indicators that would be used to evaluate whether the project has achieved its objectives
are (for more details and for other indicators at the component level see Annex 3):
0     a proposal regarding institutional arrangements and processes needed to implement
     integrated management o f aquatic resources developed, tested, and agreed on inthree
     participating States, and discussed with the other six States o fthe Brazilian Amazon by PY6;
0    Action Programs (APs) under implementationinthree Project target areas, covering an area
     of about 290,845 km2within three river basins (1,950,000 km2),with participation o f natural
     resource usersectors at local, state, and federal levels by PY06;
     32,94 1km2o f freshwater productive landscapes, including associated floodplains and
     riparian areas, under improved management, with positive impacts on freshwater
     biodiversity.

3. Projectcomponents

Inorder to improve articulation o fpublic policies across sectors, as well as organization and
institutional capacity, the AquaBio Project would promote the adoption o f a decentralized


                                                                                              9

approach to ecosystem management. This would include support for participatory development
and partial implementation o f Action Programs (APs) inthe three sub-basins, with institutional
arrangements formulated and negotiated with users o f natural resources, and support for a strong
training and environmental education program, as an important mechanisms to induce needed
technical and social changes under the project and improve participation inthe implementation
and monitoring o f these sub-basin programs. The project would also remove barriers associated
with insufficient information that policy makers and resource managers needto make good
decisions, as well as those related to the scarcity o f opportunities for discussion and decision-
making through (i)   the implementation o f environmental awareness campaigns; (ii)     carrying-out
detailed participatory diagnostics inthe project sub-basins, to facilitate better understanding o f
the problems related to aquatic biodiversity and water resources management; (iii)      establishing
an information and dissemination system on aquatic biodiversity (SIBA), and a project
monitoring and evaluation system; and (iv) participatory formulation and implementation o f the
APs, with the promotion o f fora for local participation in settingpriorities and determining social
and technical measures for handling water- biodiversity- and landhoil-related issues. Constraints
associated with insufficient knowledge about alternatives for the sustainable use o f land and
aquatic resources would be addressedthrough the provision o f small investments and technical
assistance (demonstration activities sub-projects) to farmers, fishermen, indigenous people, and
other resource users, inorder to test new methodologies and technologies and generate reliable
information on what works and what does not. Inaddition, to support the execution o f activities
defined inthe APs (including more sustainable land use and fishingpractices) beyond the life of
the project, a financial sustainability strategy would be developed and implemented with pilot
financial mechanisms adopted by the end o f the project.

Four components have been identified. Additional details on project components and on the
financing breakdown by sub-component and funding source can be found inAnnexes 4 and 5.

Component 1 Planning and Public Policy (Total US$1.26 m, GEF US$l.O6 m).
                -
The objective o fthis component is to develop and implement Action Programs for the integrated
management o f aquatic resources (APs) inthree sub-basins o f the Brazilian Amazon, generating
replicable experiences that could become permanent public policies, with positive impacts on
aquatic biodiversity, on the reduction o f conflicts among various users o f natural resources, and
on the improvement o f local communities' living and working conditions. This component
would support: (a) carrying-out o f detailed diagnostics of each o f the three project target areas,
and the elaboration and implementation o f sub-basin Action Programs (APs); (b) the
development and implementation o f institutional mechanisms for integrated management o f
aquatic resources insub-basins, and (c) the development o f a financial strategy and mechanisms
to provide financial resources for the full implementation o f the APs inthe long-term (see
Attachment 1to Annex 4).

Main outcomes: Institutional arrangements and processes established inthree sub-basins o f the
Brazilian Amazon, to support the adoption o f an integrated management approach applied to
priority issues and problems that affect the aquatic biodiversity, water resources, and living
conditions o f local communities.

Component 2 -Demonstration Activities (Total US$6.43 m, GEF US$l.78 m).


                                                                                                10

The objective o f this component i s to generate experiences and lessons learned, including new
technologies or production systems, on how to incorporate freshwater biodiversity concerns into
various productive activities, providing inputs for the development o f Action Programs for
integratedmanagement o f aquatic resources. This component would support: (a) demonstration
sub-projects that mainstream freshwater biodiversity inproductive activities, and (b) other
activities, financed under the re-directed baseline, that create an enabling environment for the
mainstreaming o f freshwater biodiversity inproductive activities. Each sub-project would have
its own objectives, expected results, and a monitoring plan. Sub-projects financed by GEF and
by the Brazilian government would be defined based on the detailed diagnostics and public
consultations to be executed under Component 1. Some priority themes have already been
identified duringthe initial consultations and diagnostics carried out duringproject preparation
(see Attachment 2, Annex 4), but additional themes are likely to emerge duringthe diagnostics
and consultations to be undertaken inproject year one (PYl),     as well as duringthe formulation
o f the APs duringPY2 to PY5.

Criteriafor eligibility. Site-specific criteria for sub-project selection under this component
would be refined and finalized for each project target area during P Y1, with stakeholder
participation during the detailed diagnostic stage. However, based on the diagnostics carried out
at project preparation, the following general criteria would guide the elaboration o f specific
criteria for each o f the three Project target areas: proposals would have to (i)correspond to
activities identified as priorities inthe participatory diagnostic o f each project target area; (ii)
involve the use andlor conservation o fnatural resources; (iii)  address the conservation o f aquatic
biodiversity, or involve activities to counteract the degradation o f aquatic resources; (iv)
demonstrate a potential positive impact on the sustainable use and conservation o f aquatic
ecosystems, including freshwater biodiversity; (v) show potential for positive impacts inrelation
to the costs o f implementing the activity; (e) show potential for replication; (vi) be proposed by
an officially constituted (pessoajuridica) local organization, or inassociation with one; (vii)
provide co-financing o f at least 5% o f the total sub-project amount, incash or inkind; (h)have
its own M&E system developed to monitor sub-project results and impacts; (viii) have an
adequate Environmental Management Plan; and (ix) comply with GEF criteria for sub-project
financing. The specific criteria to be used ineach o f the three project target areas would be
finalized after the respective more detailed diagnostics are developed duringthe first year of
project implementation, and would be defined inthe Operational Manual inclose collaboration
with the Bank.

Main outcomes: The main outcome would be demonstrationactivities to support implementation
o f integrated management of aquatic resources developed and tested inProject target areas
within three sub-basins ofthe Brazilian Amazon, with positive impacts on: aquatic biodiversity,
the reduction o f conflicts among various users o f natural resources, and the living conditions of
local communities. This component would also contribute to the sustainability o f protected areas
inthe project impact area, because the communities aroundthemwould have adopted more
sustainable production systems and technologies.

Component 3 -Building Capacity (Total US$3.67 m, GEF US$2.56 m)
The objective ofthis component i s to prepare stakeholders, especially local ones (individuals and
institutions), to be able to actively participate inthe formulation, implementation, and monitoring


                                                                                                 11

of strategies and action programs aimed at the conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater
biodiversity and water resources inthe project areas. This component would support activities
that are crucial to the long-term sustainability o f project results, such as (a) environmental
education, (b) training o f rural extensionists and local people on sustainable methodologies and
technologies, (c) institutional and individual training for the formation o f partnerships and
conflict resolution, and (d) support for the establishment o f mechanisms for decision making and
discussion and resolution of conflicts over the use o f aquatic resources inthe project target areas.

Main outcomes: The main outcome would be greater operational and decision-making capacity
of government institutions, civil society organizations, and society at large, at local, state, and
federal levels inthe Brazilian Amazon, to support implementation o f integrated management o f
aquatic resources.

Component 4 Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E),and I nformation
               -
Dissemination (Total US$5.80 m, GEF US$1.77 m).
The objective o f this component i s to coordinate, manage, and monitor actions developed under
the scope o f the project, foster integration among the various components and with other related
projects and programs, indicate possible needs for changes inproject implementation, and
disseminate results at local, state, national and international levels. Notably it would support the
implementation o f a project physical-financialmonitoring system and the development and
implementation of an information system on aquatic biodiversity (SIBA).

Main outcomes: Main outcomes would be (i) effective participation o f government and
                                                   more
civil society institutions inproject activities, including monitoring and evaluation, (ii)    a system
to monitor project impacts hlly implemented with participation o f local stakeholders, (iii)      an
Aquatic Biodiversity Information System developed and making information available to the
general public, and (iv) project results that lead to the adoption o f integratedmanagement o f
aquatic resources are disseminated and implemented beyond the project target areas.

The four components would be integrated at the sub-basin level through the following main
activities ineach sub-basin: (i)   a diagnostic o f the main threats and o f the barriers to address
them, (ii) dissemination o f information, training, and a participatory consensus buildingprocess,
involving resource users and government institutions, for elaboration o f a plan for the
conservation and management o f aquatic resources, and (iii)      establishment o f a governance
strategy for the longterm implementation o f such plan, including a framework for conflict
mediation and resolution. This approach would contribute to the implementation o f the National
Biodiversity Policy as it supports a decentralized, inter-sectoral approach to the management o f
aquatic ecosystems, and incorporates economic, social, cultural (traditional knowledge), and
environmentaldimensions inthe formulation and implementation o f project supported action
programs (APs), designed to address threats to biodiversity and resolution o f conflicts over the
use of aquatic resources. It would also contribute towards the implementation o f the National
Water Resources Policy, which establishes the decentralization o f water resources management
bymeans o fRiver Basin Committees -not yet implemented inthe Amazon. The interface
between implementation o f the AquaBio and these two national policies is presented inmore
detail inAnnex 1.



                                                                                                   12

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

Project preparation was highlyparticipatory and GEF PDF-B grant resources were crucial to
support this process in such a geographically and socially complex environment. Although this
approach resulted inan extended preparation phase, the end product i s a project with a more
solid implementation perspective due to (i)   the contributions o f such a varied group o f
stakeholders, and (ii)  enough time for novel concepts (such as mainstreaming) to mature and be
incorporatedinto project design.

The Project design considered and incorporated a series o f experiences and "lessons learned"
derived from other relevant projects and initiatives that address issues related to the conservation
and sustainable use o f natural resources, especially under the scope o f the Pilot Program for the
Brazilian Rainforest - PPG7 (ProVhrzea, ProManejo, Ecological Corridors, PD/A, RESEX, and
NRPP). Experience from such projects, especially the ProVarzea, indicates that effective
conservation can best be achieved when local communities and resource users are organized and
take on some o f the responsibilities for legislation enforcement at the community level, after they
understand what it takes to keep those resources available to them inthe longrun (sustainable
development).

Project design also incorporates lessons learned from the creation and strengthening o f
Watershed Committees inthe South, Southeast, and Northeast o f Brazil. Among these, the more
relevant lessons include: (a) The success and sustainability o f initiatives and projects aimed at
natural resources conservation increase significantly when (i)    the various interest groups
participate intheir preparation and implementation, including training activities and monitoring
the project's implementation and impacts; (ii)   they generate benefits for bothindividuals and the
communities involved, including women and youth; and (iii)       they develop and implement
mechanisms that support the continuation o f efforts after project implementationi s completed;
(b)Training activities should include opportunities for the direct transmission and exchange of
knowledge and experience amongbeneficiaries, such as seminars, workshops, field days, and
radio programs; (c) Whenever possible, project implementation should make use o f existing
structures, institutions, and organizations, strengthening them to better perform their role and/or
to take on additional responsibilities inthe context o f project implementation; and (d) Insofar as
possible, the project strategy should be developed based on the region's social reality and
potential, including existing knowledge inlocal research and teaching institutions.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

An assessmentwas made o fwhether the project area should include black and clearwater
ecosystems inall countries o f the Amazon Basin, with demonstration activities intwo or three
transboundary rivers. This alternative was rejected due to the anticipatedlogistical difficulties
involved inimplementing a project involving intense local participatory activities, over such a
large area, especially in a time when the Basin coordination activities o f the Amazon
CooperationTreaty Organization (ACTO) were still being implemented from an itinerant (and
thus less efficient) Secretariat. Fortunately, another GEFproject, Integrated and Sustainable
Management of Transboundary Water Resources in theAmazon River Basin, focusing primarily



                                                                                               13

on the transboundary issues and aspects o f the basin, i s currently under preparationby the
ACTO, OAS, and UNEP.

The inclusion of a research component inthe project area was also considered but rejected since
the second phase of the Pilot Program's Science and Technology Sub-program, inthe amount o f
US$5.8 million, hasjust entered the implementation phase. Another alternative considered was
to support the implementation, inthe Brazilian Amazon, o f River Basin Committees, as
prescribed in Brazilian legislation. However, the GOBfelt that first there should be an initiative
such as the AquaBio Project to increase knowledge and institutional capacity as a way to ensure
that biodiversity conservation would beproperly included inthe decision-making processes
associated with the establishment and operation o f such Committees.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. ProjectImplementationStrategy

Giventhe innovative nature o fthis project, a detailed project implementationreview would take
place at 24 months after project effectiveness. Implementation o fproject activities from various
components would overlap intime, but overall project implementation would proceed along the
following general lines:

    Project dissemination and environmental awareness: From the beginningto the end o f
    project implementation, the project would (i)   disseminate information at local, sub-basin and
    Federal level on project rationale, objectives and activities, (ii)promote a sense o f individual
    and collective responsibility toward Amazonian aquatic ecosystems and their relationship to
    land use changes and other development initiatives, and (iii)   increase awareness o f existing
    environmental legislation, and o f other related legislation, addressing freshwater biodiversity
    and aquatic resources, and the importance o f sustainable use and conservation o f such
    resources.

    Training of stakeholders at all levels: An extensive training and environmental education
    program would start inPY1, involving themes such as participatorymethods, conflict
    resolution, disseminationo f relevant knowledge and experiences. This training would
    prepare stakeholders to better identify and analyze social, economic and environmental
    sustainability, and conflicts, inorder to enable the planning and implementation o f actions
    for the adoption o f sustainable aquatic ecosystem-based management practices.

    Detailedparticipatory diagnosis of the three Project target areas (Le. portions of the Negro,
    Tocantins and Xingu sub-basins, respectively): Buildingon the diagnostics conducted during
    project preparation for each o f the three sub-basins, from which the three project target areas
    were identified, this activity would finance specific studies and participatory diagnostic
    activities andworkshops, to determine with more specificity and in greater detail (i)    themain
    issues and problems to be addressed by the project at each target area; (ii)   the relevant local
    stakeholders and conflicts; and (iii) existing initiatives and activities aligned with AquaBio's
    objectives.



                                                                                                 14

Formation of Local and State Project Committees: These advisory groups would empower
stakeholders and provide legitimate fora where they would assess the detailed diagnostics,
and follow-up with (i)    selection or assessment o f sub-projects, (ii)
                                                                      developing or approving
action programs for testing and implementingintegrated management o f aquatic resources
(APs - see item below) inthe three Project target areas; (iii)   fostering the replication and
scaling-up o f AquaBio's approach to other sub-basins inthe Brazilian Amazon; and (iv)
mainstreaming lessons learned into local and sub-basin policies and programs.

Formulation of Actions Programsfor Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources (APs):
IneachProject target areaan actionprogramwould beprepared inaparticipatorymanner,
starting inPY2, by first prioritizing themes and activities with potential to be financed under
component 2 as demonstrationsub-projects. These themes and activities would be
negotiated and agreed among stakeholders ineach Project target area, and would constitute
the initial strategic actions to be addressedunder the AP. Preparation o f APs would continue
from PY2 to PY5, in an iterative manner, incorporating experiences and lessons from
impIementation o f demonstration activities (sub-projects under Component 2) and o f training
and discussions to advance conflict resolution on specific issues. APs would include, among
others, proposed institutional arrangements, specific policy-related studies, and the
development of a financial sustainability strategy to support the execution o f selected
activities.

Sub-projects Preparation and Selection: Sub-projects would be prepared and proposed by
local organizations or institutions, or inassociation with one o f them following rules and
criteria established inthe Operational Manual. Specific selection criteria for each Project
target area would be developed and agreed in a participatorymanner duringthe first year o f
project implementation following the principles established duringproject preparation. Sub-
project proposals would be screened and validated by the respective Local and State Project
Committees and submitted for final analysis and approval by the Project Coordination, in
collaboration with the respective sub-basin executingunits.

Implementation of sub-projects would be overseen by the Local Project Committee, with
support from staff hired for each Project (staff would consist o f technical specialists or
administrative support contracted to oversee and coordinate project implementation at the
local level, inclose articulation with the Project Coordination).

Initial implementation of APs: would start no later than PY5 and would extend beyond the
life of the project as some relevant actions may occur over the medium (6-8 years) to long-
term (20 years). This stage would also include implementation o f measures identified inthe
financial sustainability strategy to make the relevant financial mechanisms filly operational.

 Monitoring and evaluation would occur according to the project's M&E system. Local
project staff would contribute progress reports with the formats and frequency required,
which would be aggregated by the sub-basin executing units and the Project Coordination.
Participationo f the beneficiaries inM&E would be maximized as they would beprovided
with feedback and contribute to decisions regarding any necessary mid-course corrections.
Consolidated M&Ereports would be submitted to CONABIO, the Bank, and other relevant

                                                                                             15

     agencies. Services for conducting independent mid-termand ex-post evaluations would be
     contracted by the Project Coordination.

2. Partnershiparrangements

The project's design and implementation strategy i s based on the establishment o f partnerships
with other institutions and ongoingprojects, including with the Brazilian Institute for the
Environment and Natural Resources (IBAMA),the Brazilian National Water Agency (ANA),
and with the Governments o f the States o f Amazonas, Mato Grosso, and Park. Partnerships have
also been agreed with (i) Integrated and Sustainable Management of Transboundary Water
                                the
Resources in the Amazon River Basin project under preparation by the Amazon Cooperation
Treaty Organization -ACTO, with support from GEF/UNEP/OAS; (ii)                          the following MMA
projects: Ecological Corridors, PROAMBIENTE, National Environmental Program (NEP-11),
and Restoration of Water Springs and Riparian Areas (DIFLOR); (iii) Grosso's State     Mato
Program for the Strategic Conservation o f Riparian Forests (PEPE); (iv) MCT's Science and
Technology Subprogram Phase2 (Science-2); and (v) with Eletronorte's Community Plan for the
Sustainable Development o f the Area Downstream from the UHETucurui Dam (PPDS-JUS). It
i s anticipated that other partnerships with public and private institutions would be formed at the
federal, state, and municipal levels duringproject implementation.

Partnerships with NGOs, CSOs, and academic and scientific institutions identified duringproject
preparationwould also be established by means o f technical cooperation agreements to develop
or support actions related to the coordination and implementation o f various project activities at
the local level. The project would also foster partnerships with users o f natural resources and
their organizations.

3. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The Government o f Brazil would bethe Grant recipient, with the Ministry o f Environment
(MMA)as the ExecutingAgency through its Secretariat ofBiodiversity andForests (SBF).

TheNational Biodiversity Commission (CONABI02) was selected as the ProjectSteering
Committeebecause o fits mandate and composition, which includes representatives from key
ministries, civil society organizations, NGOs, and associations o f users o f natural resources with
interests and conflicts inthe sub-basins where the Project target areas are located. Inrelation to
project implementation, CONABIO would: (i)                 foster the incorporation o f experiences and
lessons learned generated by the project into national public policy, especially sectoral ones; (ii)
support the identification andmonitor the implementation o fmeasures to correct problems

* A more detailed description of CONABIO's mandate and responsibilities is in Annex 6.        CONABIO is comprised of
representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Supply, Ministry of Science and
Technology, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Foreign Relations, Ministry of Planning, Budget, and Management, Ministry of
Agrarian Development, Ministry of National Integration, IBAMA, Brazilian Association of State Environmental Entities
(ABEMA), National Confederation of Agricultural Workers (CONTAG), Brazilian Societyfor the Progress of Science (SBPC),
Brazilian Academy of Science (ABC), Brazilian Forum of NGOs (Environmental and Social NGOs), and Coordination of
Amazonian.Indigenous Organizations(COIAB). CONABIO will invite ANA to participate as an invited member in all meetings
where AquaBio-relatedissues are discussed. Other institutionsand organizationswould also be invited to participatedepending
uponagendaitemsto be discussed.


                                                                                                                   16

identified duringproject implementation; (iii) and validate the Annual Operational Plans
                                                   assess
(POAs); and (iv) participateinproject evaluation.

A Project Coordination Unit (PCU), constituted by MMAstaff, would be locatedunder the
Secretariat o f Biodiversity and Forests (SFB/MMA).The PCU would be supported inthe
financial management and procurement functions by MMA's Executive Secretariat
(SECENMMA), through the Subsecretariat o f Planning, Budget and Management (SPOA), who
would execute such functions. However, for the first two years o f the project it has been agreed
that UNESCO would carry out project procurement (see Annexes 7 and 8). The PCUwould have
responsibility for, among others: (i)  managing and executing the project; (ii)   coordinating the
management of financial resources and procurement; (iii)      reportingon the application o f
resources and results achieved; (iv) preparing management reports for the Secretary o f
Biodiversity and Forests, CONABIO, World Bank and the GEF, and other lead agencies; (v)
promoting interinstitutional linkages; and (vi) monitoring, evaluating, and disseminatingproject
results.

A State Project Committee would be formally established for each sub-basin bythe end o f
P Y1with duties related to: (i)  serving as a vehicle for mainstreamingproject experiences and
lessons at the state level for planning and public policies; (ii) supportingproject implementation
through inter-institutional coordination, inparticular among institutions and programs
contributing to the implementationo f the re-directed baseline; (iii)   mediating possible conflicts
between or among groups of stakeholders; (iv) promoting the replication o f the experiences o f
the project target are in other priority areas o f the sub-basin; (v) assessing and validating sub-
basin Annual Operating Plans (POAs); (vi) reviewing and approving the Sub-Basin Action
Programs (APs); (vii) reviewing and approving target area demonstration activities (subprojects);
and (iv) monitoring project execution, and suggesting necessary adjustments. The final
composition of each State Project Committee would be discussed and agreed with stakeholders
duringthe first year; but it is expected that it would have amaximumo f 10members, selected to
represent governmental and nongovernmental stakeholders. However, it has been already agreed
that the coordinators o f the following projects would be represented inthe relevant State Project
Committees: NEP inMato Grosso, Ecological Corridors inAmazonas, and Para Integrated
Development inPara. When necessary, the State Project Committees would have the support of
ad-hoc consultants hired by the project to provide expert advice on specific issues.

Ineach o fthe three sub-basins the MMAwouldberesponsible for project execution, with
support from the following institutions: (i) the Tocantins sub-basin, -1BAMA and the Para
                                              in
State Secretariat o f Environment (SECTAM); (ii)       inthe Xingusub-basin, IBAMA and the Mato
Grosso State Secretariat of Environment - SEMA; (iii) the Negro sub-basin, IBAMA and the
                                                            for
Amazonas State Secretariat o f Sustainable Development - SDS. Project execution at the sub-
basin level would mostly utilize existing managerial, technical and administrative structures of
partner institutions. Such arrangements, buildingon existing institutional and technical expertise,
would foster a more efficient, less expensive, and faster implementation o f AquaBio. IBAMA
would also provide direct involvement o f staff from its newly created FishingResearch and
Management Center for the Northern Region (CEPNOR) inManaus. That office i s being opened
to give institutional sustainability to ProVBrzea project activities after project implementation i s
completed, as well as to support implementation o f the AquaBio and ensure coordination of


                                                                                                 17

project activities with other IBAMA offices inthe Amazon region. FUNAI would also assist
MMAinproject executionactivities inareas whereindigenous peoples arepresent. MMAwill
enter into technical cooperation agreements with IBAMA, SECTAM, SEMA, SDS and FUNAI
to establish their respective roles and responsibilities inthe project execution.

Inaddition, aLocalProject Committee wouldbeestablishedfor each Projecttarget area, to be
comprised o frepresentatives o f existing local governmental and non-governmentalinstitutions
and organizations and, whenever possible, this would include representatives o f existing
municipal development committees. The composition o f the Local Project Committees would be
agreed at the completion of the detailed target area diagnostic by the end o f the first year o f the
project. Their responsibilities would be to: (i)  serve as a vehicle for mainstreaming project
experiences and lessons into local level and municipal public policy andplanning; (ii)       prepare
and endorse the annual work plan for the target area; (iii)   assess and validate the APs; (iv) review
and endorse the selection of demonstration activities (subprojects); (v) supervise and monitor the
implementation of project activities; and (vi) mediate existing conflicts between and among
groups of stakeholders inthe Project target area.

In eachProject target area, the MMA would hire technical specialists to carry out project
implementation at the local level, under supervision o f the PCU and inclose coordination with
the respective sub-basin State Project Committee. The project would also contract specialized
institutions with established activities at the local level, such as specialized NGOs, universities,
foundations, or research institutions, for the execution o f all or part o f the planned actions ineach
respective Project Target Area. Some potentialpartners identifiedto date are: (i) the Negro
                                                                                       in
River sub-basin - Fundaqiio Vitoria Amazonica (FVA), the National Amazon Research Institute
(INPA), and Institute for Ecological Research (IPfi); (ii) the Xingu sub-basin - the Socio-
                                                             in
Environmental Institute (ISA), the Environmental Organization for the Roncadov-Araguaia Area
(ONGARA), and the State Universityo f Mato Grosso (UNEMAT); and (iii)              inthe Tocantins
sub-basin - the Association o f Organizations for Social and Educational Assistance (FASE),
Amazon Research Institute (IPAM), and the Federal Universityo f Para (UFPA).

It is also expected that, given the pilot nature o fAquabio, project implementation arrangements
would continue to evolve duringthe execution o f this process project as new stakeholders
become involved inproject activities over time. See Annex 6 for additional details on project
implementation arrangements, including the proposed organizational chart.

4. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

Monitoring and evaluation and information management are critical elements o f AquaBio, and
are described indetail under Component 4 inthe detailed description o f the project (Annex 4).
Beneficiaries o fthe monitoring system would include: (i) PCU; (ii) o f natural resources
                                                              the             users
and aquatic biodiversity and their organizations; (iii)  partner government agencies, NGOs, and
universitieshesearch institutes; (iv) other project partners; and (v) civil society organizations.
The results o fmonitoring and evaluation activities, and o fdecision-making Monitoringand
evaluation o f outcomes/results
based on information generated by the monitoring program, would be shared with project
beneficiaries at various levels. Consolidatedmonitoring and evaluation reports would be


                                                                                                  18

submitted to the World Bank. The PCU would contract specific studies, as well as independent
mid-term and final evaluations. Together with monitoring and evaluation reports, these analyses
would provide inputs for eventual adjustments inproject activities and management
interventions to be incorporatedinPOAs. See Annexes 3 and 4 for additional information.

5. Sustainability and Replicability

The AquaBio intends to promote a new way o f doing business inthe Amazon: new approaches
to policy implementation, partnerships, capacity development, institutions, and collaboration.
The long-term implementation of integrated management of aquatic resources inthe Amazon
does not therefore require sustained special financing, or an institutional home, but rather
requires that the concepts it promotes continue to be developed and mainstreamed inthe
Brazilian Amazon.

Institutional Sustainability: The proposed project would be institutionally linked to the Ministry
o f Environment (MMA), which has the mandate to ensure the sustainable use and conservation
o f water resources, and o f fisheries resources and other aquatic biodiversity inthe Amazon
Basin. Inlight o f the project's objective to improve the decentralized management of aquatic
resources through more informed and participatory decision-making, the proposed project
management structure would promote the integration of activities within existing programs, and
the mobilization o f resources to support the continuity o fproject activities. The new IBAMA
field office, inManaus, o f the Fisheries Research and Management Center o f the Northern
Region-CEPNOR, would greatly contribute to the project's institutional sustainability inthe
medium and long term.

The Project's main interventions toward achieving institutional sustainability include: (i)   public  ,
policyplanning activities, that would contribute to the strengthening o f the existing network of
sectoral institutions, leading to improved capacity to manage natural resources and aquatic
biodiversity; and (ii)  a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system that would strengthen
the institutional capacity to manage and coordinate public sector interventions, and to
disseminate project experiences and lessons learned to Amazonian states and to other countries
of the Amazon Basin. Under its participatory approach, the proposed project would seek the
support o f local networks and institutions, would provide "training for trainers", and would work
with local "environmental agents" and schools, thus promoting the sustainable use of natural
resources among a variety o f stakeholders.

Financial sustainability: Subcomponent 1.3 would develop and implement a financial
sustainability strategy to support the execution o f selected activities under the APs, beyond the
life of the project, with pilot financial mechanisms adopted by the end o fthe project. This would
be achieved through the following activities: (i) identification o fpartners and stakeholders
                                                    initial
followed by the establishment of a common dialogue; (ii)      identification o f the outcomes and
activities to be continued following the closure o f the Project; (iii)assessment o f the potential of
the activities identified in(ii) above to attract external resources and/or generate financial returns
to ensure their financial sustainability; (iv) identification and/or design of viable financial
mechanisms/models to support financial sustainability (e.g., public investment programs and
funds, environmentally friendly certification schemes, trust funds, etc.); and (v) the development


                                                                                                19

and implementation of an action plan to make the relevant financial mechanisms fully
operational. Additional details can be found inAnnex 9.

Replicability: AquaBio was designed to includereplicability as one of its key features. The
project's demonstrative nature (that would support activities inat least some nine
municipalities), and the differing characteristics o f the three selected sub-basins representing the
main aquatic ecosystems and types o f threats to the environmental integrity o f the Amazon
Basin, provide a solid basis to support the replication o fproject activities and "lessons learned"
to address similar problems elsewhere inthe Amazon Basin, eventually including countries other
than Brazil.

6. Critical risksand possible controversial aspects

                    Risks                                  RiskMitigationMeasures


 Actors at federal level (ANA, Ministry of Establishment o f State Project Committees, and constant
 National Integration, etc.) and state     awareness raising, mobilization, and capacity
 governments do not coordinate.            development o f these actors throughout project

                                          .-_-____________________________________--~~-----------------
                                           implementation.
 Local communities and indigenous          The demonstration activities component proposes the
 groups with low capacity to propose and   contracting o fNGOs and consulting firms to provide
 execute activities that generate          technical assistance to proponents, and assist with
 environmental and economic benefits.      monitoring and sistematization o f experiences and
                                           lessons learned.
                                          ._______________________________________-------------~---
 Insufficient institutional capacity for   Inthe three sub-basins, project implementation wouldbe
 project implementation at the Federal and supported by existing structures with proven
 State levels.                             administrative capacity for projects such as AquaBio.

 Federal budget constraints                Yearly assurance o f a specific budget line for AquaBio in
                                           the Federal budget.

                                           Detailedproject implementation review 24 months after
                                           project effectiveness to identify and correct possible       M
                                           problems.

                                          ),M(medium), L(low).

Overall project risk i s Medium. N o issues havebeen identified that might be controversial or
pose reputational risks for the Bank.

7. GEF Grant conditions and covenants

No significant, non-standard conditions and covenants are envisioned for project effectiveness or
implementation. Special conditions o f effectiveness would include: (i)            that each o fthe necessary
technical cooperation agreements with IBAMA, SEMA, SECTAM, SDS, FUNAI, including that
with UNESCO, have been signedina manner satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) the PCU            that
General Project Coordinator and at least three other technical coordinators have been appointed.



                                                                                                       20

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

Cost-effectiveness
The Project offers an excellent costhenefit ratio, as it addresses the conservation o fhighly
significant biodiversity under threat, but at an early enough stage where relatively modest
investments inproject activities would actually be able to help avoid major, irreversible damage
inthe mediumto longterm, and also avoid extremely costly ecosystem restorationactivities in
the future. The adoption o f co-management schemes, as a way to improve the conservation
status o f freshwater biodiversity inthe Amazon, has shown to be highly cost-effective when
compared to approaches that try to achieve the same results based only on command and control
initiatives. This is particularly true inthe Brazilian Amazon, where command and control
activities are very costly due to the sheer size o f the area, the highly dispersed population pattern,
and the difficulties o f transportation and communication.

Inthe XinguRiver Sub-basin (State ofMato Grosso) theproject would beimplementedwith
support from existing institutional capacity within SEMA, with support from the State's rural
extension agency (EMPAER). Inthe Negro and Tocantins River Basins (States o f Amazonas and
Para, respectively), where existing institutional capacity inthe Project target areas i s not as
present, the Project has adopted a number o fmeasures to improve its cost-effectiveness, such as
obtaining the support of the existing ProVhrzea Project Coordination Unit for implementationo f
some project activities - which would result in(i)    reduced costs; (ii) coordination and
                                                                          better
exchange o f experiences between activities already under implementation along the mainstem o f
the Solim6es/Amazon River and those to be implemented under the AquaBio along some o f the
tributaries; (iii)
                 a faster start-up o fproject implementation due to the strong capacity that already
exists inthe unit, and leadingto a greater probability that project targets and results would be
achieved within the proposedtimeframe. Inaddition, the establishment o f the IBAMA-CEPNOR
base inManaus would ensure the sustainability o fboth ProVarzeaand AquaBio initiatives inthe
medium and long-term.

2. Technical

The project would support the implementationof activities, on a demonstrative basis, that
contribute to the development and disseminationina user-friendly manner, o f natural resources
management experiences, to generate positive impacts for the sustainable use and conservation
of aquatic resources. Inthe Amazon Region a number o f relevant activities are currently being
implemented, albeit inan isolated manner. The AquaBio Project proposes to test and implement
such experiences within a river basin context, at the sub-basin level, and monitor their impacts
on water and aquatic resources, and on the quality o f life o f the communities involved. The goal
i s to demonstrate the positive impacts of an integrated approach to the sustainable use o f natural
resources at sub-basin and local levels, and encourage the participation o f public authorities and
of local communities and organizations inplanning and decision-making for the co-management
o f these resources.




                                                                                                21

3. Fiduciary

Financial management. The Grant would be implementedby MMA through its Secretariat o f
Biodiversity and Forests (SBF). A single financial and procurement management unit i s being
established to execute and implement all Bank-supported projects under SBF's responsibility, A
financial management risk assessmentwas carried out and concluded that the financial
management systems currently inplace are satisfactory. The financial management risk
associated with the proposed project has been assessedas low.

Procurement. With the exception o f the procurement related to sub-projects under sub-
component 2.1, all other procurement activities involving GEF funds would be carried out by
UNESCO under a technical cooperation agreement with MMA, for a maximum period of two
years after project signing. Inthe meantime, the MMNSBF would work on installing in-house
capacity to carry out all o f the project's procurement activities. It i s expected that, inaround 18
months into project implementation, the MMA/SBF would havebuilt enough capacity to support
these activities without the assistance from an external agency. The procurement unit established
by MMNSBFwould have to be assessed and approved by the Bank, and an action planto
continue to improve its capacity would be agreed upon.

The 2004 Country Procurement Assessment for Brazil recognizes that the procurement function
inthe federal governmentis robust. An assessmentofthe capacity ofUNESCOto implement
procurement actions for the project confirmed that it would be able to carry out the procurement
adequately. The overall risk assessment for the agency i s moderate and thus would initially
require bi-annual procurement post-reviews. To strengthen its procurement capacity and
minimize risks, MMA and UNESCO have committed to provide training for all o f their
procurement staff on Bank procedures.

Procurement Plan. The Recipient has developed a Procurement Plan for the activities to be carried
out during the initial 18 months o fproject implementation, which provides the basis for the
procurementmethods. The Procurement Planwould be updated in agreement with the Project
Team on an annual basis, or as required to reflect actual project implementationneeds and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Operational Manual. The recipient has prepared a draft Operational Manual that will be finalized
and submitted for Bank analysis and no objection before signature o f the Grant.

4. Social

The threats to freshwater biodiversity inthe Brazilian Amazon stem from an increase inhuman
occupation and activity inthe Brazilian Amazon, and from changes inthe patterns o fhuman
behavior related to the use o fnatural resources. Such changes have also resulted in an increase in
the occurrence of conflicts among resources users (see Annex l), ina demand from
                                                                        and
government and civil society to establish participatory processes for decision-making related to
the resolution o f such conflicts, and to the development and implementation o fpolicies aimed at
the sustainable use and conservation o fnatural resources inthe Region as a means to avoid or
minimize such conflicts inthe short to the long term.


                                                                                                 22

Resolution of such conflicts i s fundamental to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable
use of aquatic resources. For this reason, the proposed AquaBio Project would promote and
support actions that stimulate and facilitate the integration o f needs o f all users, including
conservation, inthe development and implementation o fpolicies and programs that may impact
the conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater biodiversity inthe Brazilian Amazon. The
Project Monitoring and Evaluation System provides for the monitoring o f indicators that track
the evolution and success indeveloping action programs for integrated management o f aquatic
resources inthe three sub-basins (including indicators o f stakeholder participation, and
institutional commitments - see Annex 3 for more details).

Indigenous Peoples. There are indigenouspeoples livingintwo o f the Project's target areas,
within the Negro and the Xingu sub-basins. Inthe Negro target areathere are 24 riverine
indigenous communities o fmixed ethnicities scattered along the river and tributaries, with an
estimated population o f 1,300. The Xingu target area includes two Xavante indigenous lands
with a total population estimated at 1,400, and aportion o fthe Xingu IndigenousPark (PIX) with
a total population of 4,700 representing 14 ethnicities. Representatives from indigenous groups
from bothbasins have participatedinproject preparationactivities, including public
consultations, and their initial concerns have been incorporated into project design (see Annex
10). The Recipient prepared and consulted an Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the project,
summarized inAnnex 10. Indigenouspeople inthe Xingu and Negro sub-basin target areas have
expressed interest inparticipating inthe project and would be eligible for all project activities.
Indigenous people inthe PIX have already expressed a particular interest inparticipating actively
inthe monitoringand evaluationofproject impacts on freshwater biodiversity.

Stakeholder involvement. Key stakeholders associated with the Project may be classified intwo
groups: national and local stakeholders. The main national stakeholders include: (i)       federal and
state government institutions, including the National Environment Institute (IBAMA); (ii)
national and international NGOs; (iii)  national organizations from various private sector
stakeholders; and (iv) universities and other research institutions. The main local stakeholders
include: (i)local municipal government; (ii)   municipal councils and other local associations; (iii)
natural resource users, such as fishermen and small rural producers, as well as their families and
associations, large commercial farming and ranching operations, and hydropower developers;
(iii)indigenous groups; and (iv) local NGOs. The involvement o f these stakeholders during
project preparation included a series o fmeetings and public events with participation o fmore
than 600 people.

Duringproiect implementationstakeholders would participateas follows: at the federal level in
the project Steering Committee (CONABIO), which includes civil society as well as
governmental representatives; and inthe State and Local Project Committees with stakeholder
representation including civil society. These committees would have responsibilities, among
others, for mainstreamingproject experiences inpublic policies, for reviewing annual work
plans, APs, and demonstration subprojects, further detailed inSection C and Annex 6. In
addition, partnerships would be established with universities, research institutions, andNGOs for
the execution o fproject activities inthe target project areas and for project monitoring. The
participation o f local stakeholders andbeneficiaries would include: (i)    involvement inthe


                                                                                                  23

planning, implementation, and monitoring o f demonstration activities; (ii)                  inclusion, inthe
project's annual planning, o f their demands for training in sustainable management o f natural
resources; and (5)active participation inenvironmental education and capacity development
programs.

Duringproject implementation there would be ongoingparticipation by the actors involved and
society in general, through seminars and workshops. Project documents are available on MMA's
website and inthe Project files: http://www,mma.gov.br/aauabio

5. Environment

The Project would generate positive environmentalimpacts through strengthening the capacity
of government institutions and civil society to participate indecision-making that supports the
sustainable use and conservation o f freshwater biodiversity inthe Brazilian Amazon and, inthe
mediumand longterm, through fosteringbetter management and control of the threats that lead
to degradation o f the Region's aquatic resources. Direct, positive environmental impacts
stemming from Project implementation would likely include: (i)                   the resolution o f conflicts over
the use of fishery resources and resulting improved management o f such resources; (ii)                         better,
sustainable management o f aquatic resources, as a result o f the mainstreaming o f freshwater
biodiversity concerns into public policies and actions at the sub-basin and local level; (iii)
improved quality o f water resources and fisheries for indigenous groups living inthe PIX (Xingu
sub-basin); and (iv) the production o f environmental services associated with decreased soil
erosion, riparian forest recovery, and conservation o f overexploited aquatic species such as
tambaqui, piramutaba, jlhote andpirarucu.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                           Yes                    N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                              [XI                     [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                         [XI                     [I
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                             [XI                     [I
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                [I                    [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                  [I                     [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                 [XI                     [I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                  [XI                     [I
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            [[I
                                                                                           I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                                     [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                    [I                     [XI

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
The Project does not require any exception to World Bank safeguard policies.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thejnal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputed areas

                                                                                                                     24

                     Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
  Brazil: IntegratedManagementof Aquatic Resourcesinthe AmazonRegion                  - AquaBio

Background

The Amazon Basin (7 million km2,including the Tocantins River sub-basin) i s shared by eight
countries (Brazil, Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, Peru, Surinam, and Guyana). The
Brazilian part o f the Amazon Basin covers about 58% o f the total area, or 4.06 million km2,and
will henceforthbe referred to as the Brazilian Amazon. The rivers o f the Amazon Basin and their
associated ecosystems are characterized by a rich diversity o f freshwater fauna and flora o f
global importance, representing approximately 30% o f the world's freshwater ichthyofauna,
most o f which is endemic. Although smaller, the numbers o f amphibians, reptiles, and aquatic
birds occurring inthe Amazon Region are also highly significant inglobal terms. It is estimated
that there are nearly 30,000 species o f animals and plants, but the true number remains unknown
due to the difficulty incompleting inventories associated with problems o f access and other
logistical considerations.

The Amazon aquatic ecosystem comprises three very different kindso fwaters: (i)      whitewater
rivers, also called sediment-richrivers, such as the Amazon itself, that are rich innutrients; (ii)
clearwater rivers, relatively nutrientpoor and that can range from alkaline to acidic; and (iii)
blackwater rivers, with very acidic waters that are nearly devoid o f sedimentsand nutrients, but
which have a dark color due to natural dissolved organic matter such as tannins. The
combinations o f interactions among the various types o f water, flood regimes, and riparian
characteristics, have originated a complex mosaic o f aquatic habitats inthe Brazilian Amazon.
The long-term conservation o f freshwater biodiversity inthe Amazon requires that all
components of this large mosaic continue to be available to all species that make use o f them.
While some aquatic species may spendtheir whole life inonly one aquatic habitat, most species
use different parts o f this mosaic duringtheir life cycle, with the extreme being some species o f
catfish that migrate between the estuary and the Basin's headwaters throughout their lifetimes.
The long-term conservation o f freshwater biodiversity inthe Amazon requires that all
components of this large mosaic continue to be available to all species that make use o f them.

There are a few protected areas inthe Brazilian Amazon that include freshwater habitats and
associated biodiversity o f global importance. The main large ones are: (i)  Mamiraua Sustainable
Development Reserve, (ii)    Jafi National Park, (iii) Sustainable Development Reserve, (iv)
                                                     Aman;
Anavilhanas Ecological Reserve, and (v) Araguaia National Park. The first three are contiyous,
forming a biological corridor and represents a combined area o f approximately 57,400 km This .
area includes nutrient rich vdvzea floodplains and nutrient poor blackwater ecosystems, as well
as the transitional ecosystems inbetween. The Anavilhanas Ecological Reserve, located on the
Negro river (blackwater ecosystem), i s the second largest freshwater archipelago inthe world,
with more than 400 islands. The Araguaia National Park contains clearwater aquatic ecosystems,
but is currently under threat from increasinghuman occupation o fits headwater areas. However,
these protected areas are not enough to ensure effective conservation of freshwater biodiversity
inthe BrazilianAmazon.




                                                                                              25

Brazil's use o f a "corridor approach" for the conservation o f freshwater biodiversity, supported
through the Ecological Corridors Project (Rainforest Pilot Program), i s especially important in
protecting aquatic migratory species since there i s a need to maintain both their habitats and
inter-connecting waters for purposes o fmigration. Achieving effective corridor protectiontends
to pose a greater challenge when compared with individual protected areas, typically one
involving a wider public commitment to protect hydrological regimes, water quality, and
migratory fish stocks. This commitment requires a great deal o fparticipationby and
coordination among all water and watershed users, as well as politicians and government
agencies from various relevant sectors.

Similarly, Brazil's legislation governing the National Systemo f Conservation Units Law
(SNUC; Law No9.985/00,Decree No4.340/02) supports a new concept o f protected areas inthe
region, one inwhich local people and other stakeholders are taken into considerationboth during
public consultation procedures prior to the creation o f Conservation Units (UCs), and inthe
development o f their respective management plans and councils. However, the Law's
implementation has faced great difficulties, particularly inpublic institutions responsible for U C
management (bureaucratic constraints, lack o f staff, infrastructure, and training, etc.), which
have been described as the "Achilles' heel" impeding the effective implementation o f the SNUC.
The Ecological Corridors Project and the Amazon Region Protected Areas (ARPA) Project are
supporting activities aimed at improving this situation.

The major use o f aquatic resources inthe Amazon Regioni s inthe fishing sector. The fishery
resource represents an important source o f protein, employment, and income for the local
population. It i s considered a complex activity that involves the utilization o f various types o f
equipment and categories o fusers who exploit diverse fish species indifferent environments,
Subsistence riparian fishing predominates, with surplus representing 60-70% o f production, sold
inthe market. Theother types offishingpractices inthe Amazon are: commercial fishingfor
large urban centers by small, semi-professional fishermen; small-scale fishing specializing in
ornamental fish for export companies (about 2,000 people depend on this activity on the Rio
Negro, and some 20 to 50 million ornamental fish are exported from the Rio Negro each year);
and sport fishing on boats and at hotels, which has been increasing significantly inrecent years,
Other significant uses of aquatic resources include local huntingand consumption o f turtles,
caiman, the Amazon river dolphin, and manatee.

The Region's livingaquatic resources, while abundant, are nevertheless finite and increasingly
being threatened by unplannedor poorly planned economic growth. This i s an ongoing process
that has increased over the last three decades, mostly as a consequence o f past government
policies and incentives aimed at the occupation o f the Brazilian Region, and leading to the
conversion o f forests. Examples include the construction o f infrastructure (such as roads and
hydroelectric plants) and the introduction o f commercial agriculture and cattle-raising as major
economic activities. Inaddition, the problem has been exacerbated by a weak Government
presence inthe Amazon, which led to the current situation - a large number o f rural settlers
without legal title to the lands where they live and farm.

One key issue associated with this growth i s the over-exploitation o f some species that are
constituent components o f the Region's aquatic biodiversity. Examples include: Pirarucu


                                                                                                 26

(Arapaimagigas), Piramutaba (Brachyplatystoma vaillanti), and the red-tailed catfich Pirara
(Phractocephalus hemioliopterus). As a result, changes are increasingly being observed inthe
composition o f commercially caught species, where over-exploited commercial species o f
greater size (and market value), such as the Piramutaba, are being replaced by smaller, still-
abundant, species such as the smaller catfish Piracatinga (Callophysus macropterus). In
addition, while before the local people would only consume large specimens o f certain fish
species, such as the Tambaqui (Colossoma macropomum), now it i s common to find smaller,
mostly immature, specimens o f Tambaqui at local fishmarkets.

A second critical issue i s the indirect impacts on the aquatic ecosystem associated with the
environmental consequences o f the previously described development model, including the
conversion o f forests. Major off-site impacts on aquatic resources include: siltingo f water
bodies, changes incurrent regime, reduced flow inrivers, and reduced water quality, all with
negative effects on the integrity o f aquatic ecosystems and the consequent loss o fbiodiversity in
the Region. Ingeneral, the existing amount o f environmentalliability i s very high,with negative
consequences to regional aquatic biodiversity.

Finally, the miningsector represents a major source o f impacts, affecting aquatic resources not
only inthe proximityof the miningactivities, but as a source o f off-site contamination for which
the consequences have yet to be fully understood.

At present, the adoption of effective measuresto resolve these issues i s impededby anumber o f
barriers. These can be grouped into the following: (i) policies are insufficiently
                                                           public
articulated across sectors to effectively address threats; (ii) weak organizational and institutional
capacity at the basin, federal, state, and local levels to deal with these issues ina participatory
and integrated manner, taking into account local environmental, cultural, and socioeconomic
characteristics; (iii)
information with resource users and other stakeholders - to the adoption o f more sustainable
                     barriers - particularly the lack o f accessible systems for sharing existing

harvesting practices of aquatic resources, and o f appropriate land use practices that result in
fewer negative impacts on freshwater ecosystems, while also generating economic benefits for
local communities; (iv) absence o f continuous monitoring and information systems that (a) track
policy and institutional failures that may result in further degradation o f freshwater biodiversity,
and (b) improve the knowledge base about freshwater biodiversity and its ecology inthe
Brazilian Amazon, and about ecosystem responses to the intensification o f natural resource use
and other changes to the natural environment; and (v) few opportunities and fora for discussion
and decision-making related to the issues above, to educate stakeholders about user needs and
reach consensus on implementable policies.

The aquatic ecosystems of nutrient-rich whitewater rivers, and those o f clear and blackwater
rivers, characterized by the oligotrophy o f the aquatic environment, need alternatives and
different proposals for the conservation and sustainable use o ftheir aquatic resources. In
recognition o fthis complexity, and the overall size o fthe Brazilian Amazon, the proposedproject
design has adopted a pilot approachbased on sub-basins as the basic planningunit, inorder to
properly address the issues andbarriers described above.




                                                                                                27

Selection of Project sub-basins

The principal sub-basins considered for project interventionwere: Javari, Iqa, Juru&`Jutai/Japura,
Purus, Negro, Madeira, Trombetas, Tapajbs, Xingu, Jari, and Tocantins. Inview o f the project's
specific interest in clear and black water rivers, those sub-basins with headwaters inthe Andes or
under major Andean influence were not considered inthe selection process, since they consist
mostly o f white water rivers: Javari, I&JuruUJutai/Japura, Purus, and Madeira.

For purposes o f selecting specific sub-basins, a set o f criteria was used, grouped into four major
categories: (i)       ecosystem and biodiversity; (ii)          importance o f aquatic resources and degree o f
threat; (iii)     scientific information and knowledge; and (iv) degree o fhuman development and
local organizations. Based on the application o f these indicators, the following sub-basins were
selected for direct project intervention, listed inorder of their importance: (1) Negro; (2) Xingu;
(3) Tocantins; (4) Jari; (5) Tapaj6s; and (6) Trombetas. Due to constraints on budget and
implementation capacity, inaddition to the demonstrative nature o f GEF projects, only the first
three have been included inthe project. A summary o fthe methodology usedfor selection o f sub-
basins and the complete methodology and results canbe found inthe project files.3

The three selected sub-basins, inaddition to the ProVbrzeaproject area, provide a representative
sample of the various combinations o f aquatic ecosystems and problems that affect them inthe
Brazilian Amazon. The Rio Negro i s illustrative o f areas where direct utilization i s the main
issue affecting aquatic resources, while, inthe upper Xingu Basin, most negative impacts on the
quality and abundance o f aquatic resources area the result of unsustainable land use activities,
including forest conversion and increasing urbanization. The lower Tocantins river, on the other
hand, has suffered the direct irreversible impact o f the construction and operation of a large
hydroelectric dam.

The threats to freshwater biodiversity inthe Brazilian Amazon stem from an increase inhuman
occupation and activity inthe Brazilian Amazon, and from changes inthe patterns o f human
behavior related to the use o f natural resources. Such changes have also resulted inan increase in
the occurrence o f conflicts among resources users, and the main conflicts that have been
identified inthe project area are: (a) Inthe mid and lower Negro sub-basin, (i)                             conflicts between
local and commercial fisheries, especially where fisheries activities are now limited to areas
outside Protected Areas, thus increasingcompetition for the same resource; (ii)                              conflicts between
"food" fisheries, and sport fishing activities, since some rivers have been "closed" to food
fisheries inorder to ensure the availability o f large specimens o f sport fishes; (iii)                       conflicts
betweenpiabeiros (poor local fishermen that provide fish the aquarium trade) and environmental
authorities, as well as with other fisheries; (b) Inthe upper Xingu sub-basin, (i)                           conflicts between


  The biodiversity importance o f these sites was confirmed in an international workshop on "Conservation o f Freshwater
Biodiversity in Latin America and the Caribbean," held in Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia, in September 1995. Inthe workshop,
the region called the "Amazon complex" was divided into eight distinct ecoregions: (1) Amazon estuary; (2)Amazon River
channel; (3) tributaries o f the Guyana shield; (4) Negro River; (5) Amazon River headwaters; (6) western Amazon plains; (7)
tributaries o f the Brazilian shield; and (8) Araguaia-Tocantins Basin. Ecoregions (2), (4), and (5) were recognized as being of
global importance for aquatic biodiversity and recommended as being of the highest priority for conservation in Latin America,
as its conservation status is considered vulnerable.




                                                                                                                            28

riverine dwellers/small farmers and large mechanized farming and ranching operations; (ii)
conflicts over environmental quality and healthbetweenpopulations outside the P I X and the
indigenous groups that live with the Park; and (c) Inthe lower Tocantins, (i)          conflicts among
fishermen   o f all types over the use o f reduced fish stocks after constructiono f the Tucurui Dam;
(ii)conflicts among local communities and Dam administrators over implementation o f adequate
measures to compensate for negative impacts on fisheries inthe river section downstream o f the
Dam.

Projectpolicy interface

The AquaBio project would support implementation o f various national, state and local policies
inthe Brazilian Amazon, its major focus will beonimplementation o fspecific articles under the
National Biodiversity Policy and under the National Water Resources Policy.

(A)     National Biodiversity Policy (Decree 4339/02)

Knowledge about the Biodiversity

10. General Objectives: generate, sistematize and make available information for the management of
biodiversity inthe various biomes, and its role inthe functioning and maintenance of terrestrial and
aquatic ecosystems, including national waters. Promote knowledgeabout Brazilianbiodiversity, its
distribution, its determiningfactors, its values, ecological functions, and potential for economic use.

Biodiversity Conservation

11.1.4. Support actions for the elaboration of ecological-economic zoning, on national, regional, state, and
municipale scales, or at the level of river basins, with a focus on the establishment o f protected areas, and
adoptingits conclusions with a minimumset of common guidelines and methodological directives, and
with transparency, scientific rigor and social control.
11.1.11. Establish anational initiative for conservation and rehabilitation of freshwater biodiversity, and
that of coastal and marine zones.

Sustainable Use of Biodiversity

12.2.8. Promote, inan integrated way and when legally permited,the sustainable use of forestry (timber
and non-timber), fishery and faunistic resources, giving priviledgeto certified management, the
replenishment, the multiple use and maintenance of stocks.

Biodiversity Monitoring, Evaluation, Prevention and Mitigation of Impacts

13.2.16. At the level of river basins, support actions aimed at zoning and identification o f critical areas,
for the conservation of biodiversity and o f water resources.
13.2.18. Support studies on impacts onbiodiversity inthe different river basins, especially inriparian
vegetation, headwaters, water springs, and other permanent conservation areas and inareas critical to the
conservation of water resources.
13.3.11. Promote the restoration, rehabilitation, and conservation of biodiversity inthe different river
basins, especially inriparianvegetation, headwaters, water springs, and other permanent conservation
areas and inareas critical to the conservation of water resources.



                                                                                                         29

(B)     National Water Resources Policy (Law 9.433,08 January o f 1997)

Article 1
JY -management ofwater resources should always contemplatethe multipleuse ofthe resource;
V -the river basin is the territorial unit for implementation o fthis policy;
VI-management o fwater resources should be descentralized and includeparticipation from the Public
Sector, of water users, and o f communities.

Article 3
I1-management o fwater resources should be adaptedto the physical, biotic, demographic, economic,
social, and cultural diversity o f the various regions inthe country;
I11-management o fwater resouces should be integratedwith environmental management;
IV-planningandmanagementofwater resources shouldbearticulatedwiththat ofother user sectors,
and with regional, state, and national planning;
V -management of water resources should be articulatedwith landuse management.

Article 9
The classificationof water bodies according to their main use aims to:
I-ensurethatwaterbodieswouldhaveaqualitythatiscompatiblewiththemostdemanding
requirements applicable to them;
I1-decrease the cost o fpollution control by supportingthe adoption o fpermanent preventive measures.

Article 26
Basic principles for the implementation o f the Water Resources Information Systems are:
I-decentralizationofdataandinformationgatheringandproduction;
I11-access to data and information is guaranteed for society at large.

Article 29
For implementationo f the National Water Policy, it i s the role o f the Federal Executive Government:
I11-to implement and manage, on a nationalbasis, the Water Resources Information System;
IV-topromotethe integrationbetweenwater resources management andenvironmental management.

Article 39, paragraph 3
Inthe River BasinCommittees o frivers withbasins that include indigenous lands, the following
representatives should be included:
I-amemberfromtheNationalIndianFoundation(FUNAI)asarepresentativefromtheFederal
Government;
I1-members from indigenous communities located inthe basinor with interests init.

National Water Resources Council (Resolution 12, o f July 19,2000)

Article 3
Inthe absence ofWater Agencies, proposalsfor the classificationofwater bodies canbeelaboratedby
river basinmunicipal consortia or associations, with the participation o f government institutions
responsible for water resources management and in collaboration with government environmental
organizations.




                                                                                                    30

    Impact on                                              Legal and         Project activities to deal        Responsible institutions in
      globally                                               policy                with root cause               the context of AquaBio
    significant                                         framework in
  biodiversity                                                place
Reduction o f       Over-fishing    Open access        National fisheries  Enforcement of laws and             .BAMA,stateand municipal
stocks o f          (Nand T)        resource           law (regulates      implementationo f fishery           mvironmentalagencies
commercially                        (N,T andX)         when, where and     statistics
important fish                                         what, how to fish)                                      SpecialSecretariat o f Fisheries;
species             Habitat         No other income                        Restrictiono f fishing licenses/    Ministry o f Agriculture
                    degradation (X  source (Nand T)    Law o f protection  iermits
                    and T)                             o f endangered                                          Various federal, state
                                    Higher income      species (identifies Provide alternative livelihoods to  :redititechnical assistance
                                    from fishing than  threatened,         :ommercial fisherpeople             programsilines
                                    other available    endangeredand
                                    income options     overexploited fish  Increase awareness o f              Sovernmental and non-
                                    (NandT)            species)            :onsequences o f over-fishing,      :overnmental environmental
                                                                           nnd o f existing laws and           :ducation programs
                                                                           regulations
                                                                                                               [BAMA, state and municipal
                                                                           Promotion of fishing agreements     environmental agencies
                                                                           among users (acordos de pesca)

                                                                           Elaboration o f APs and
                                                                           establishment of discussion fora
Decreased           Hunting         Highly prized food Faunaprotection     Enforcement of laws and             IBAMA,state and municipal
numbers o f other   (N,T and X)     (high market       law (prohibits      implementation of SIBA              environmental agencies
aquatic                             prices)            hunting o f
biodiversity                        (N,X andT)         wildlife)           Provide alternative livelihoodsto   Various federal, state
(turtles, caimans,  Habitat                                                local communities                   credititechnical assistance
manatees)           degradation                        Law o fprotection                                       programsilines
                    (X and T)                          o f endangered      Increaseawareness o f
                                                       species (identifies consequences of illegal hunting,    Governmental and non-
                                                       threatened and      and o f existing laws and           governmental environmental
                                                       endangered          regulations                         education programs
                                                       species)
                                                                           Elaboration o f APs and
                                                                           establishment o f discussion fora
Degraded            Change in       HydropowerDam      National Water      Enforcement o f laws and            IBAMA, stateand municipal
ecosystemwhich      flow and        (TI                Law                 implementationof SIBA               environmental agencies
includes globally   flooding
significant         patterns        Degradationo f     National forestry   Monitoring of water quality,        Municipalities
biodiversity        (T and X)       riparianareas due  code (protects      quantity, and o f aquatic
                                    to deforestation   riparian vegetation biodiversity (SIBA)                 Governmental and non-
                    Increased       and agricultural   and springs)                                            governmental environmental
                    sedimentation   use                                    Introduceor enforce regulations     educationprograms
                    o f streams and (X and T)          National Water      on use o f fertilizers and
                    increased                          ResourcesCode       pesticides and disposal o f
                    water           High price o f                         containers
                    temperature     commodities        Water Quality
                    (XI             (X and T)          regulations         Encourage no-till agriculture and
                                                       (CONAMA             reforestation o f riparianzones
                    Land            Regional planning  resolutionon
                    conversion of   policy             stream               Increased awareness o f
                    headwaters      and agricultural   classification)     consequenceso f environmental
                    leadingto       credit lines                           degradation, including solid
                    decreased       (X andT)                               waste, especially on aquatic
                    flows and                                               ecosystems
                    decreased       Urban areas
                    water quality   dumping solid                           Elaborationo f APs and
                    (XI             waste and                               establishment o f discussion for a
                                    untreated waste
                    Decreased       water
                    water quality   (X and T)
                    (X andT)



                                                                                                                                  31

        Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies
       Brazil: IntegratedManagementofAquatic Resourcesinthe AmazonRegion AquaBio
                                                                           -




  Management
         -        /NaturalResources           I         I     I           I              I
                   Management Project
Natural Resources Forest Resources             Ongoing     S    1998-2006     6.09
  Management       Management Project
 Environmental     SecondNational              Ongoing     S   2000-2006      2.35
  Management       Environment Program
 Protected Area    Ecological Corridors        Ongoing     S   2001-2006      2.59
  Management       Project (Central Amazon)
 Protected Areas Amazon RegionProtected        Ongoing     S    1996-2007    10.40
                   Areas Project
   Biodiversity    NationalBiodiversity        Ongoing     S    2001-2005      --
                   Project
 Environmental     Natural ResourcesPolicy     Ongoing     S    1995-2006     1.89
  Management       Project
                                                                                        ~




 Environmental     Monitoringand Analysis      Ongoing     S    1999-2006     1.39
Management and Project
   Monitoring
    Biological     Inter-American              Ongoing     S    2004-2009     5.5
   Information     Biodiversity Information
     Systems       Network
Scientific Research Sub-program of Science     Ongoing          2005-2008     5.O
                   and Technolow PhaseI1
  Environmental    National Biodiversity          In
Management/Mains Mainstreaming and            Preparation
    treaming       Institutional Consolidation
                   GEF Project
 Integrated Rural Para Integrated                 In
  Development      Development                Preparation
Other Agencies
 Water Pollution Igarape 40 GEF Project           In
                                              Preparation
                                               (uNlw
  Environmental    IntegratedManagement of        In
Management and Transboundary Water            Preparation
   Institutional   Resources inthe Amazon      (UNEP)
  Strengthening    River Basin




                                                                                  32

                           Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
     Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources inthe Amazon Region AquaBio            -


  ProjectDevelopment                              OutcomeIndicators                           Use of the Results
    Objective(PDO)                                                                                Information


PDO                         By PY06, a proposal regarding institutional arrangements       PY03reevaluate the
                            and processes for integrated management o f aquatic            ?reject implementation
To support the              resources developed, tested, and agreed on in participating    strategy if fewer than 6
mainstreaming o f a multi-  States (3), and discussed with the other States (6) o f the    States are participating
stakeholder, integrated     Brazilian Amazon.                                              indiscussions o f
management approach to                                                                     proposals for integrated
the conservation and        BY PY04, action programs for integrated management             management, or if less
sustainable use o f         ( A h ) under implementation in three Project target areas,    than two o f the three
freshwater biodiversity in  covering an area o f about 290,845 km2within three river       sub-basins have A P s
public policies and         basins (1,950,000 km2), with participation o f natural         under development.

programs inthe Brazilian    resource user sectors at local, state, and federal levels.

Amazon River Basin.                                                                        PY03 reevaluate the
                            By PY06,strengthened institutional capacity to implement       capacity building
                            integrated management inthree sub-basins, inFederal             strategy if the achieved
                            Government institutions (3), State governments (9),            target for any
                            Mayors' offices (9), non-governmental organizations (15),       stakeholder group is
                            trainer o f trainers and local leaders (go), special interest   less than 50%.
                            eroum (15) schools (45). and local communities (45).
     Project Global
Environmental Objective

GEO                         By PY06,project results providing a basis for future            PY03 intensify capacity
                            expansion o f integrated management o f aquatic resources to    building and
To reduce threats to the    other sub-basins o f the Brazilian Amazon; experiences and      dissemination efforts if
integrity o f freshwater    lessons learned shared with stakeholders o f the nine states    fewer than 6 States are
ecosystems inthe            o f the Brazilian Amazon and other countries o f the Amazon     actively participating in
Brazilian Amazon, and       Basin (6 national events, 2 international workshops, 2          discussion about
assure the conservation     media campaigns, and production o f dissemination               integrated management,
and sustainable use o f its materials).                                                     or if there has been less
freshwater biodiversity o f                                                                 than a 25% increase in
global importance.          ByPY06,increase inthe number and diversity o f                  the number o f
                            representatives from the producer and commercial sectors        representatives from the
                            actively participating inthe discussion opportunities           producer and
                            supported by the project.                                       commercial sectors
                                                                                            actively participating in
                            By PY06,39,941 km2o fproductive freshwater landscapes,          the discussion
                            including associated floodplains and riparian areas, under      opportunities supported
                            improved management in 3 sub-basins, with positive              by the project.
                            impacts o n freshwater biodiversity.
                                                                                             Use of the Indicators



                                                                                                             33

Component 1                 Component 1

Title: Planning and Public  Ineacho fthe three Project ImpactAreas, a detailed             PYOl adjust efforts if
Policy                      participatory diagnostics completed, and strategic             less than two diagnostic
                            demonstration activities identifiedby the end o f PYO1.        activities are underway.
Result: Institutional
arrangements and            An Action Program(AP) developed for each o fthe three          PY02 reevaluate
processes establishedin     sub-basins with institutional arrangements formulated and      2apacity buildingand
three sub-basins o f the    negotiated with natural resource users by the end o f PY03,    dissemination strategy
Brazilian Amazon,           and under implementation inPY04, with participation o f        iffewer than two AP
supporting the adoption o f government institutions (Federal Government,3 State            proposals are in
an integrated management    governments, local authorities o f a minimum o f 9             discussion, or if less
approach applied to the     municipalities), 15 NGOs and civil society organizations       than 50% o f the target
priority issues and         (such as cooperatives, fishermen colonies and associations,    public is involved.
problems affecting          indigenous associations, rural producers, and others).
aquatic biodiversity,
water resources, and        By PY05,eight AP-related studies completed, aimed at
living conditions o f local mainstreaming experiences o f integrated management o f        PY03 reevaluate the
communities.                aquatic resources into public policies.                        real need for more
                                                                                           studies if fewer than
                                                                                           50% are contracted.

                            ByPY06,a developed andnegotiated strategy for financial        PY04 intensify
                            support to the implementation o f the 3 APs, with pilot        dissemination efforts if
                            financial mechanisms adopted beginning inPY05.                 fewer than two
                                                                                           proposals o f financial
                                                                                           mechanisms are under
                                                                                           discussion.

                            By PY06,a proposal for institutional arrangements and          PY03 reevaluate the
                            processes for integrated management laid out and discussed     strategy for awareness
                            with stakeholders inthe other 6 states o f the Brazilian       raising if fewer than six
                            Amazon, with input from the experiences generated inthe        States are participating
                            demonstration areas.                                           indiscussions o f
                                                                                           proposals for integrated
                                                                                           management.
Component2                  Component2

Title: Demonstration        Demonstration activities (30) completed by PY 06: at least     Review project
Activities to Support       20 demonstration activities identified based on the detailed   implementation strategy
Mainstreaming o f           diagnostics (Component 1) by the end o f PY02,with at          and intensify efforts if
Freshwater Biodiversity.    least 10 under implementationinPY02.                           fewer than 10 activities
                                                                                           are identified by the end
Result: Demonstration                                                                      o f PYO1,or if fewer
activities invarious                                                                       than 10 have begun
sectors to support                                                                         implementation by end
integrated management o f                                                                  o f PY02.
aquatic resources
developed and tested in     Lessons generated, experiences systematized, and made          PY03 intensify efforts
three sub-basins o f the    available to the public (a total o f at least 3 communication  to systematize
Brazilian Amazon, with      products, with at least one in each o f the 3 sub-basins, by   experiences if fewer
positive impact on aquatic  FY04 and a total o f 6 communicationproducts by PY06.          than three
biodiversity, on reducing                                                                  communication
conflicts among natural                                                                    products have been
resource users, and on the                                                                 developed.
improvement o f the living

                                                                                                             34

conditions o f local
communities.
Component3                 Component3

Title: Building Capacity   ByPY06, strengthened institutional capacity to implement         PY03 reevaluate the
for integrated             integrated management o f aquatic resources inthree sub-         :apacity building
management o f aquatic     basins, inFederal Government institutions (3), State             strategy ifthe achieved
resources.                 governments (9),Mayors' offices (9), non-governmental            .arget for any
                           organizations (15), trainer o f trainers and local leaders (90), itakeholder group is
Result: Greater            special interest groups (15) schools (45), and local             ess than 50%.
operational and decision-  communities (45).
making capacity of                                                                          PY04 increase technical
institutions and civil     By PY06, 10proposals for projects that contribute to the         mistance and capacity
society organizations at   implementation o f integrated management developed by            milding efforts iffewer
local, state, and federal  indigenous groups, women's associations, or youth groups,        ;han nine proposals are
levels inthe Brazilian     and submitted to other finding entities (such as PRONAF).        developed.
Amazon, to support
implementation o f         By PY06, 150capacity building and environmental                  PY02 reevaluate the
integrated management of   education events offered to natural resource users,              :omponent strategy if
aquatic resources.         technicians, and decision makers inthe three sub-basins,,        fewer than 12 events
                           promoting greater interest among the various players inthe       are offered, or if there i s
                           implementation o f integrated management o f aquatic             no significant increase
                           resources.                                                       inparticipation of main
                                                                                            stakeholders.

                           By PY06, awareness raising events for effective                  PY02 increase
                           participation inintegrated managementheld inlocal                awareness raising
                           communities (45), schools (45), and NGOs (15).                   efforts if less than 80%
                                                                                            o f the target indicators
                                                                                            are achieved.

                           By PY05, 50% o f those beneficiaries that received training      PY03 increase capacity
                           are adopting technologies promoted by the project.               building and technical
                                                                                            support if less than 30%
                                                                                            o f beneficiaries have
                                                                                            adopted technologies
                                                                                            promoted..

                           Appropriate training materials designed and                      PY02 evaluate strategy
                           producedpublished for at least 6 stakeholder groups by           iftrainingmaterials
                           PY04 (may include videos, manuals, field trips, etc).            produced for fewer thar
                                                                                            3 stakeholder groups.
Component4                 Component4

Title: Project             By PYO1, effective participation in project execution of         PYOlevaluate the
Management, Monitoring     govemment (3 federal, 3 state, and 9 municipal) and civil        participationo f key
and Evaluation(M&E),       society organizations (2 in each municipality - 15).             stakeholders regarding
and Information                                                                             project execution;
Dissemination.                                                                              adjust awareness raising
                                                                                            efforts if less than 50%
Result: Increased                                                                           o f target indicator is
institutional capacity to                                                                   achieved.
effectively manage and
coordinate project actions System to monitor project impacts filly operational in           PYOl increase efforts if
inthe three sub-basins,    PY02, with participation o f local stakeholders.                 the project impact
monitor project impacts,                                                                    monitoring system

                                                                                                               35

                                                                                        is still not defined or
 experiences generated by                                                               sufficiently detailed.
 the project.
                           Project Implementation Monitoring System (SIGMA)             PYOl SIGMA fully
                           operational and providing information for continued          functional.
                           improvement o f project implementation from early PYOl.

                           An information system on aquatic biodiversity and fishery    PYOl intensify efforts
                           statistics (SIBA)     implemented     in PY02, making        ifSIBA isstill not
                           information available to the general public.                 being developed.

                           By PY06, project information dissemination implemented       PY03 conduct mid-tern
                           through seminars (at least 3) and diagnostic reports (3) by  evaluation and readjust
                           PY02, and international seminars (2), regional seminars (6), project implementation
                           external evaluation reports (2), progress reports (15), and  ifnecessary.
                           media camoaiens (2).



Project Monitoring and Evaluation

Objectives
The Project's Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System would monitor the implementation
progress o fproject supported activities (through the SIGMA) as well as measure their impact on
freshwater ecosystems. Information generated by the M&E system would be made available for
real time project planningmanagement, as well as for use by beneficiaries, partner institutions
and the public ingeneral. The Project would also support the creation and implementationo f an
aquatic resources information system (SIBA),beginning inthe Project target areasbut with the
objective o f eventually expanding to include other areas o f the Amazon Basin. The M&E system
would entail the following activities: (i)  planning for implementationo f project monitoring and
evaluation activities; (ii)definition o f specific methods and tools to monitor the impact indicators
defined inthe logical framework; (iii)    implementation o f a data storage system, and (iv) making
the information available to stakeholders at all levels.

Resultsand indicators
Results expected include: (i)functioning aquatic biodiversity resource information system
                                a
(SIBA); (ii) IBAMNProVarzea fisheries statistics system strengthened with new data
              the
collection points located inthe Project target areas; (iii)      a system to monitor the impacts o f the
project's technical strategy on aquatic biota and water quality at selected points inthe Xingu
River Project target area, including two points where major tributaries o f the Xingu enter the
Xingu Indigenous Park; (iv) an accessible anduser-friendly databaseo fproject results; (iv) an
operational project implementation monitoring system (SIGMA); and (v) external mid-termand
final project evaluations. Table 1presents a summary o f the activities and targets to be
achieved.

To measure project impacts, the monitoring systemwould use a set o f indicators, includedinthe
Logical Framework, which would be measured and interpreted, as much as possible, with the
effective participationo f local stakeholders. These indicators include: (i)        biological indicators of
aquatic biodiversity (fish, bottom-dwelling invertebrates, plankton, turtles, and riparian
vegetation); (ii) data collected at fish market stations (species, quantitykg, average length,


                                                                                                           36

fishinglocation, fishingeffort, etc.); (iii) on results offishing agreements (reduction of
                                            data
conflicts, economic impacts, and impacts on fish populations); (iv) improvement o f water quality
@hysical chemical, sediment, and pesticide indicators); and (v) the area inkm2o fproductive
freshwater landscapes that are under improved management as a result o fproject activities. The
use o f the GEF Tracking Tool for SP2 to report some o f the indicators would be agreed with the
Recipient at the time o f project negotiations, and the completed Tracking Tool would be attached
to the Minutes o fNegotiations.

Information management
Data collected under the M&E Systemwould be disseminated to all stakeholders, including
project management staff, thus allowing for timely decision-making regarding necessary
adjustments for improving project implementation. The M&E team, including partner
institutions, would be responsible for data collection, analysis, and the "translation" of
information into a format accessible to local communities. Informationwould bemade available
bymeans o f events, publications, reports, internet, radio, and other communication media
appropriate for the various stakeholder groups.

Geographic scope and selection of intervention areas
Inview o fthe different uses ofnaturalresources and stages o fdegradation o faquatic
biodiversity, as well as varying local institutional capacity and arrangements, the AquaBio
Project would operate ina different way ineach o f the three project impact areas. Within these
impact areas, target areas for on-the-ground interventions would be selected in each o f the three
sub-basins, to demonstrate methodologies which promote restoration o f components o f the
landscape and conservation o f biodiversity. The impact o f these interventions would be
measured according to the Project M & E Plan. Monitoringand evaluation activities would be
limitedto the geographic focus o f the project actions, inthe various spheres o f intervention and
planning: production system, properties (family), producers groups, municipality, community,
microwatershed and sub-river basins. Results, successful experiences, and lessons learned would
bedisseminated throughout the Brazilian Amazon, and also to to other countries inthe Amazon
Basin.

Criteria for selection o f monitoring sites within the three Project target areas include: (i)  within
three microwatershed inthe headwaters o f the Xingu River, monitoring sites would be selected
considering the degree o f degradation o f natural resources and impact on aquatic resources;
interest of local residents, presence o f other existing projects and initiatives, location inrelation
to institutional support structures, and degree o f representation o f the current landuse; (ii) the
collection points for information on aquatic biodiversity inthe mid and lower Rio Negro and the
lower Tocantins River regions would be the areas o f greatest commercial and sport fishing as
well as those of collection o flive aquarium fish; (iii) landingmonitoring stations would be
                                                         fish
located ineach municipality selected for intervention inthe Rio Negro and Tocantins River
basins; (iv) fishing agreements indicated bypartner institutions and inthe areas o f greatest
interest for aquatic biodiversity would be monitored .

Beneficiaries
Thebeneficiaries o fthe Monitoring and Evaluation System would include: (i)          internal- the
project management structure and its components; (ii)      local public - direct beneficiaries, their


                                                                                                  37

families and organizations; (iii) institutional partners -universities, NGO's, and governments;
(iv) partner projects; and (v) civil society.

Operational strategy
Initial seminar
Early inProject Year (PY) 1, an initial seminar would be heldineach o f the three sub-basins
with the participationof local residents, their leaders and representatives, government andnon-
governmental institutions, representatives o f other projects, and municipal governments. The
seminars would be a continuation o f the relationships already established by the AquaBio project
duringproject preparation, and would serve to mark the official beginningofproject
implementation. Seminar objectives would include: (i)      formal presentation o f the Project and
provision o fmore detailed information; (ii)   explanation o f the criteria used for site-selection and
evaluation o f the project; (iii)
                                collection o f information and suggestions to help finalize the
Project's PY 1 work plan, the M & E Plan, the implementation strategy for creation and
establishment o f the Aquatic Biodiversity Information System, and (iv) process for establishing
the project baseline. The first year operational plan (POA) would include a revision o f the
indicator table and o f their means o f verification. The indicators o f project impact would also be
finalized. The final version o f the Monitoringand EvaluationPlan would include performance
indicators that are consistent and coherent with the expected project results.

These initial seminars would support the preparationof the following products: (i)      a revised
Monitoringand Evaluation Plan; (ii)     first year work plan, including establishment o f the project
baseline; and (iii) a validated strategy for implementation o f the Aquatic Biodiversity
Information System.

Development of the baseline
The plan for development o f the baseline would be completed at the initial seminar. The
development o f the baseline would use a methodology that permits local community
participation inthe process. Multidisciplinary inter-institutionalteams would be formed from
partner institutions, including community organizations, to carry out the baseline studies. These
teams would go through a training process with the objective o f standardizing methodological
procedures and defining commitments and responsibilities. The baseline products are: (i)         a
report o f the baseline ineach region selected for project interventions; and (ii)  a final assessment
of the needs for studies and research on other elements o fbiodiversity to be incorporated into the
SIBA.

The results o f the data analyses and the baseline study reports would be disseminated on the
Project's webpage and through seminars with local communities. At these seminars, participants
would discuss the status o f aquatic resources and propose and prioritorize actions to solve the
problems identified.

Implementation of the monitoring and evaluationplan, and the Aquatic Biodiversity Information
System (SIBA)
The process to monitor the status o f aquatic biodiversity as well as actions o f the AquaBio
Project would beginwith a series o f seminars with the objective o fpresenting the results o f the
baseline established inthe previous step to the communities and other stakeholders. The SIBA


                                                                                                  38

would include ecosystem level indicators, such as area o f floodplain with original vegetation,
and also habitat and species-specific indicators; these indicators would be monitored through
partnerships with universities, research institutions, NGOs, and local community organizations.
The information collected for both M& E and biodiversity monitoring objectives would be
included ina geo-referenced database, accessible to the public. The information would also be
made available through bulletins, folders, radio, television, internet, and other events, for use by
the local community in generating local knowledge and awareness, leading to the adoption o f
actions to reverse and arrest the process o f degradation o fnatural resources and its impacts on
freshwater ecosystems.

The teams responsible for monitoring aquatic resources ineach regionwould present annual
progress reports, including the achievement o f the targets established inthe work plan. The
reports would also identify the adjustments neededto improve project implementation.
Intermediateand specific reports would be developed during the year as deemed necessary by
the teams and institutions involved.

To maintain the momentum and motivation o f the technical teams and communities, as well as
keepingthe public informed o f the project results, the following events would be carried out:
li)Workingmeetinns-Wouldinvolvethelocalprojectteams,partnerinstitutionsandthelocal
community, to discuss short term operational matters and to receive the results o f the information
collected. These meetings would be heldeach quarter and last one day; and
[ii)Seminars-Allparticipantsoftheinitialseminarwouldbeinvitedtoregionalseminarsheld
annually for presentation and discussion o fproject results. The highest priorities for the
following year and adjustments needed inthe work plan would also be defined. These seminars
would offer an opportunity for exchange o f experiences among the projects underway. National
and international scale seminars would be held inthe third and fifth years o f the project to
present the advances o fthe AquaBio project as well as the trends o f aquatic biodiversity.

Institutional arrangements
The institutional arrangements for the M&E sub-component would consist o f (i) the   in
headwaters o fthe Xingu River, the coordination o fproject activities would be the responsibility
of FEMA, since the M&E would have the support, among other potential partners, o f UNEMAT,
EMPAER, TNC, I P A M (active inthe Rio Tanguro area), ISA and municipal governments, local
NGOs and associations; (ii)   inthe middle and lower RioNegro, as well as inthe lower
Tocantins, the coordination o f project monitoring activities would be under the responsibility o f
IBAMNProVarzea, with support from other potential partners such as Eletronorte, FASE,
UFPA, INPA, UFAM, FVA, IPe, municipal governments, NGOs, and local associations.

Inall o fthe project areas, the AquaBio wouldhave accessto information from ANA concerning
water resources and to the existing infrastructure o f SIPAM/SIVAM for implementation support,
such as remote data transmission. The project would sign agreements necessary to establish the
neededinstitutional arrangements. Details o fthe monitoring activities themselves would be
finalized once the demonstration areas and activities under Component 2 are completed inP Y 1
o f the Project.




                                                                                                39

Sustainability and replicability of results
One o f the Project's main strategies i s to increase awareness o f local communities and their
leaders o f the importance o f sustaining project supported outcomes related to aquatic biota and
water resources. Inaddition a major component o f the project focuses on training local
communities to continually adopt best practices o f natural resource management, maintain
fishing agreements, monitor fishlandings, and systematically collect informationrelating to
aquatic biodiversity, incorporating all these aspects indecision making for resource
management.

The institutional arrangement and the production o f information-relatedmaterials would
contribute to the continuation o f the monitoring, supported by the sustainability strategy to be
proposed by the Project. The Project would reinforce the following mechanisms to guarantee
continuity o f the project actions and results: (i)government commitment to incorporate the
results into public policy; (ii)involvement o f the local communities inself- management,
through a process o f formal and non-formal education and training; (iii)    involvement o fNGOs;
(iv) involvement ofteaching and researchinstitutions; and (v) creation of a multidisciplinary and
geo-referenced data base that can be accessedby different stakeholders involved inaquatic
resource conservation inthe Amazon region.

External evaluation

Mid-term evaluation
An external and independent mid-term evaluationwould be carried out inthe beginning PY 4.
This evaluation would provide an in-depth analysis o fprogress towards achievingproject
outcomes and the identification o fpossible adjustments where warranted inthe AquaBio Project,
The evaluation would focus on the effectiveness inachieving project results and inmeeting the
implementation schedule, identifyingareas and components which need adjustments,
emphasizing lessons learned up to that point which could guide actions inthe project's final
phase. The Terms of Reference o f this evaluation would be presented by the Project
Management Team and negotiated with the GEF/World Bank.

Final evaluation
An external and independent evaluationwould be carried out at the end ofthe project, focusing
on the same questions and indicators as the mid-term evaluation. The final evaluation would aim
to identify the project impacts and sustainability o f project results, and the degree o f achievement
o f long-term results. This evaluationwould also have the purpose o f indicating future actions
needed to assure continuity o f the process o f local self-management for the restoration,
conservation, and sustainable use o f aquatic resources inthe Amazon Basin.

M&E activitiesand targets
Table 1below presents a summary o f the activities, expected results and targets o f the AquaBio
project M&E system and Aquatic Resources Information System.




                                                                                                 40

        3E'                      rd
                                c)     I
         rn
         k                    4

        ,gE
         M



      .IY
       8c0




E
c)
a,

m
k      I       I   I   e

       3




                       3




                       e

               Il  Ii
.I
c,
3
h                      3    3               ci
cE1     3




H
El
a,
u
h       3              e    e   e       0
1

c4
Q
u
.I
c)


$
f!
a

cr
a D
0  3m
99
$i
Ea,
f!
cr
0
v1
i!
c)


0
c,
a
9m"            I   I




 5
L
c


 L
 m"
.s
.I
 a,
-$
4I
r(
2b
 a,

                              Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
  Brazil: IntegratedManagement of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon Region AquaBio          -

The AquaBio Project addressesvarious issues that directly or indirectly affect the sustainability
and conservation o f aquatic biodiversity and water resources inthe Brazilian Amazon, and will
operate on three major fronts that were identified as constraints for long-term conservation and
sustainable use of aquatic resources inthe Brazilian Amazon: (i)       strengthening the institutional
capacity of various stakeholder groups to participate indecision-making processes involving the
use and conservation o f aquatic and water resources; (ii)   supporting the creation or strengthening
of discussion fora at the local, regional (sub-basin), national, and international levels; and (iii)
learning from the testing, on a demonstrative basis, o f new methodologies and technologies for
the restoration and sustainable use o f natural resources that affect the sustainability o f aquatic
resources inthe Amazon Basin, and proposingthe implementationo f successful ones on a larger
scale, Among the sector issues, environmentalthreats and constraints outlined inSection A.l, the
project would focus on those linked most closely to the Government's priorities for biodiversity
conservation interms o f reduction and prevention o f negative impacts o f development activities
on aquatic resources, and the consequences o f such threats as a source o f a growing number of
conflicts among resource users.

The Project's development objective (DO) is to support the mainstreamingo f a multi-
stakeholder, integrated management approach to the Conservation and sustainable use o f
freshwater biodiversity inpublic policies and programs inthe Brazilian Amazon River Basin.

The project's global environmental objective (GEO) is to reduce threats to the integrity o f
freshwater ecosystems inthe Brazilian Amazon, and assure the conservation and sustainable use
of its freshwater biodiversity o f global importance, especially through the generation and
dissemination o f experiences that promote the development, replication, and scaling-up o f an
integrated management o f aquatic biodiversity and water resources inthe Amazon Basin over
the long term.

Inorder to reach its objectives, the AquaBio Projectwould promote and support actions that
stimulate and facilitate the integration o f needs o f all users, including conservation, inthe
development and implementation of policies and programs that may impact the conservation and
sustainable use o f freshwater biodiversity inthe Brazilian Amazon. This integrated approach i s
an ecosystem management approach adapted to the reality o f the Brazilian Amazon, to
mainstream aquatic biodiversity into production landscapes and sectors, and ensure that
conservation and sustainable use o fbiodiversity is properly included inthe decision-making
processes associated with the establishment and operation o f local watershed or sub-basin
committees.

Implementation of this innovative approach will require involvement o f all stakeholders ina
process of discussion, conflict resolution and decision-making within an integrated ecosystem
management framework, with the objective o f addressing threats to aquatic biodiversity, water
resources, and quality o f human life. The basic planning unit inthis integrated ecosystem
framework i s the drainage sub-basin (or portions o f sub-basins), and the following activities
would take place in each unit: (i)  a diagnostic o f the main threats and o f the barriers to address



                                                  42

them, (ii) dissemination o f information, training, and a participatory consensus buildingprocess,
involvingresource users and government institutions, for elaboration o f a plan for the
conservation and management of aquatic resources, and (iii)     establishment o f a governance
strategy for the long term implementation of such plan, including a framework for conflict
mediation and resolution. This approach would contribute to the implementation o f the National
Biodiversity Policy as it supports a decentralized, inter-sectoral approach to the management of
aquatic ecosystems, and incorporates economic, social, cultural (traditional knowledge), and
environmental dimensions inthe formulation and implementation o fproject supported action
programs (APs), designed to address threats to biodiversity and resolution of conflicts over the
use o f aquatic resources. It would also contribute to the implementation o f the National Water
Resources Policy, which establishes the decentralization o f water resources management by
means of River Basin Committees - not yet implemented inthe Amazon.

The Project would include the nine states o fthe Brazilian Amazon (Amazon Region) butproject
activities would be concentrated inthree pilot sub-basins located inthe States o f Amazonas,
Pari, and Mato Grosso, respectively. These are: Lower and Middle Rio Negro (Amazonas
State), Lower Tocantins (Pari State) and Upper Xingu (Mato Grosso State). Due to the piloting
and demonstrativenature o fthe Project and the considerable size o fthe sub-basins (the total area
o f the three sub-basins i s 1,950,000 km2),field activities would be concentrated inportions of
the three sub-basins, from now on referredto as project target areas (see map inAnnex 17),
covering an area o f about 290,845 km2.

This 6 year Project would be implemented through the following components and sub-
components:

Component 1- Planning and Public Policy: (1.1) Sub-basin Action Programs; (1.2)
Institutional Arrangements for Integrated Management o fAquatic Resources; and (1.3) Financial
Sustainability

Component 2 - Demonstration Activities: (2.1) Mainstreaming o f freshwater biodiversity sub-
projects; and (2.2) Activities insupport of mainstreaming o f freshwater biodiversity sub-projects

Component 3 -Building Capacity: (3.1) Training; (3.2) Environmental Education; (3.3)
Institutional Strengthening; and (3.4) Sustainable Public Fora for Integrated Aquatic Resources
Management

Component 4 - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and Information
Dissemination: (4.1) Management and Coordination; (4.2) Monitoring and Evaluation; and (4.3)
Information Dissemination

The total cost o f the Project i s an estimated US$ 17.13 m. Distributed by funding source these
are: GEF (US$ 7.18 m); GOB(US$ 6.78 m); resources from the re-directedbaseline (US$2.02
m); State o fMato Grosso (US $ 0.48 m); State o fAmazonas (US $ 0.59 m); Projectbeneficiaries
(US $ 0.08 m). It i s likely that additional resources would be later available from other
governmental initiatives at the federal, state, and municipal levels, as well as from the private
sector, but those are not possible to be predictedat this time.



                                                   43

The expected mainproject outcomes are:
0  Institutional arrangements and processes established inthree sub-basins o f the Brazilian
   Amazon, to support the adoption o f integrated management o f aquatic resources, to address
   priority issues and problems that affect the long-term conservation and sustainability o f
   freshwater biodiversity, water resources, and the welfare o f local communities;
0  Demonstrationactivities to test and implement technologies and methodologies that support
   the mainstreaming o f freshwater biodiversity concerns into relevant production sectors,
   developed inthe project target areas o f three sub-basins o f the Brazilian Amazon;
0  Greater operational and decision-making capacity by institutions and civil society at local,
   state, and federal levels, to adopt and implementintegrated management o f aquatic resources;
   and
0  Strengthened institutional capacity to manage and coordinate actions inthe three sub-basins,
   monitor impacts, and disseminate the experiences generated by the project.

Project outcomes would be measured usingthe following outcome and process indicators (for
more details, see Annex 3):
0  A proposalregardinginstitutional arrangements and processesfor integratedmanagement of
   aquatic resources discussed with the nine States o f the Brazilian Amazon by project year 6
   (PY6);
0  Action programs (APs) for integrated management o f aquatic resources operating inthree
   project target areas, and covering an area o f about 290,845 km2,with about 32,941 km2o f
   freshwater ecosystems benefiting from the sustainable management o f its natural resources,
   including biodiversity (PY6);
0  Demonstration activities (at least five for each o f the three sub-basins) selected on the basis
   o fparticipatory diagnostics by the end o f PY1 and implemented from the first trimester o f
   PY2;
0  Capacity strengthened to support integrated management o f aquatic resources inthe
   following key institutions: (i)  public institutions (Federal government, 9 State governments,
   and at least 9 municipal governments); 15 non-governmental organizations (representative
   entities o f civil society, cooperatives, colonies and associations o f fishermen, indigenous
   associations, and others); 90 multipliersand leaders; 15 special interest groups (women,
   youth, farmers, and fishermen); 45 schools, and 45 local communities by PY6;
0  Area of riparian forests recovered or under sustainable management by PY6;
0  Increase inthe average size o f three o f the main fish species captured inthe project area by
   PY6;
0  Conservation o f aquatic biodiversity and water resources taken into account indecision-
   making processes associated with new investments and development plans inthree sub-
   basins -measuredby the frequency o f consultation with relevant stakeholder groups;
0  A financial sustainability strategy developed and negotiatedby PY6;
0  150 training and environmental education events offered to natural resources users,
   technicians, and decision-makers inthe three participating sub-basins by PY6;
0  Mobilization and raising o f awareness in45 local communities, 45 schools, and 15 non-
   governmental organizations for effective participation inintegratedmanagement o f aquatic
   resources by PY6;



                                                  44

0   Public fora insupport o f integrated management stakeholders strengthened and/or created in
    sub-basins (three local and three state committees strengthened by PY6);
0   An Information Systemon Aquatic Biodiversity (SIBA) created andmade available to the
    general public, beginning inPY2; and
0   Objectives and results o f the Project disseminated (at least three seminars and three
    diagnostic documents by PY2, two international seminars, six regional seminars, two
    external evaluationreports, 15 progress reports, and two media campaigns by PY6).

Project outcomes would be widely disseminated to contribute to the facilitation o f the
development and implementationof action programs for integrated management o f aquatic
resources inother areas o f the Amazon.

Stakeholder participation i s included in all Project components at varying levels of intervention
(national, state [sub-basin), and local [municipal]). More specifically, project activities would
involve governmental institutions (the federal government, state governments (9);and municipal
governments (at least 9); NGOsrepresenting civil society, cooperatives, small fishermenunions
and associations, indigenous associations, and others (15); trainers and local leaders (90); local
communities (45); schools (45); specific interest groups (e.g., women, youth); and the
production sector (15). Moreover, all phases o f the Project would include participatory
evaluations and stakeholder involvement.

DETAILEDDESCRIPTION OF COMPONENTS

Component1: Planningand PublicPolicy(US$1.25 m, 7.3% o fproject cost)

Objectives; The main objective o fthis component i s to develop and implement integrated
management o f aquatic resources through the preparation and partial implementationo f Action
Programs for integratedmanagement o f aquatic resources (APs) inthree sub-basins o f the
Brazilian Amazon, generating replicable experiences that could become permanent public
policies, with positive impacts on aquatic biodiversity, on the reduction o f conflicts among
various users o f natural resources, and on the improvement o f local communities' living and
working conditions. Such actions programs would address portions o f sub-basins (project target
areas), and would have well-defined political, institutional, and financial arrangements to
facilitate effective implementationby the various stakeholders - States, local municipal
governments, private companies, rural and indigenous communities, community associations and
non-governmental organizations. Inaddition, the project would develop mechanisms to ensure
institutional and financial sustainability o f actions under the APs after project completion.

Main outcomes: Institutional arrangements and processes established inthree sub-basins o f the
Brazilian Amazon, to support the adoption o f an integratedmanagement approach applied to
priority issues andproblems that affect the aquatic biodiversity, water resources, and living
conditions o f local communities.

Main outputs; (i) Action Program (AP) developed for each o fthe three project target areas,
                   an
with institutional arrangements formulated andnegotiatedwith natural resource users, with
participation o f government institutions, NGOs, and civil society organizations (such as



                                                    45

cooperatives, fishermen colonies and associations, indigenous associations, rural producers, and
others); (ii) eight AP-related studies completed, aimed at mainstreaming experiences o f
integratedmanagement o f aquatic resources into public policies; (iii)            a strategy for financial
support for implementation o f the 3 APs designed and negotiated, with pilot financial
mechanisms adopted; (iv) a proposal for institutional arrangements and processes for scaling-up
implementation of integrated management o f aquatic resources inthe Amazon, laid out and
discussed with stakeholders inall 9 states o f the Brazilian Amazon, with input from the
experiences generated inthe demonstration areas.

Target groups: State and municipal governments, producer associations and civil society
organizations (CSOS)~     inthe nine states o fthe BrazilianAmazon, with special emphasis onthose
living inthe three Project target areas.

Geographic scope: The component's activities would be concentrated initially inthe Project
target areas (portions o f sub-basins) composed by the following municipalities inthe 3 sub-
basins: inthe Upper Xingu River (State o f Mato Grosso), Agua Boa, Canarana, and Querencia;
inthe LowerTocantins River (State ofPara), four municipalitiesto bechosen amongthose of
Abaetetuba, Barcarena, Igarape-Miri, Limoeiro do Ajuru, Oeiras do Par& Cametti, BaiZo,
Mocajuba, and Moju; inthe Lower and Middle Negro River (State o f Amazonas), Novo Airgo,
Barcelos, Santa Isabel do Rio Negro, and two small tributaries of the Rio Negro (TarumZ-aqu
and Tarumii-miri) inthe municipality o f Manaus. Project experiences would be scaled-up
through dissemination at the sub-basin level first, followed by dissemination to the whole
Brazilian Amazon and then at the level o f the whole Basin.

Sub-component 1.1:Sub-basin Action Programs. (US$0.92m, 5.4% o f total cost). This
subcomponent would finance the preparation and partial implementation, ina participatory
manner, o fAction Programs (APs) to test and implement integrated management o f aquatic
resources inthe three Project target areas (portions o f the Negro, Tocantins, and Xingu sub-
basins), with institutional arrangements formulated and negotiated with users o fnatural
resources. APs would focus on a geographical area at a scale that facilitates a bottom-up
approach with significant stakeholder participation, while at the same time addressing priority
problems that are relevant and manageable at that scale (project target area). These three pilots
would generate significant experiences and lessons learned that could be replicated initially to
other areas at the same scale, while also producing recommendations for scaling-up this
approach at the level o f other sub-basins and subsequently o f the whole basin. Participatory,
bottom-up planning and implementationwould increase ownership and facilitate conflict
management and resolution.

The implementationperiod o f the APs would likely extend beyond the life o fthe project as some
relevant actions may occur over the medium (six to eight years), and long term (20 years).
Specific activities would include: (i)     carrying-out detailed participatory diagnostics inthe project
target areas, to facilitate better understanding o f the problems related to aquatic biodiversity and
water resources management; (ii)       identification and agreementhegotiation on the respective
actions and activities to be included ineach o f the three APs, including the priority themes and


 Producer associations may include, among others, farmers, fishermen, artisans, private entrepreneurs, etc; civil
society organizations (CSOs) might include associations of women, indigenous groups, teachers, and local NGOs.


                                                       46

areas to be selected for implementationo fpilot demonstration activities (under comp. 2); (iii)
conducting sectoral and environmental studies, (iv) formulation o f the APs (PY2 to PY5),
incorporating experiences and lessons obtained duringthe implementation o f demonstration
activities (Component 2) initiated inPY2; (v) monitoring and evaluation o f the institutional
arrangements adopted duringthe formulation o f the APs; and (v) participatoryprocesses and
events leading to the endorsement o f the APs.

Participatory sub-basin planning and management would foster ownership, involving, whenever
required, the association o f sub-basin land and water users, civil society organizations and the
local representatives of concerned agencies (MMA and relevant sectoral ministers, state
government sectoral and environmental agencies, municipal governments and/or other line
agencies such as health and social action) to collectively define, share, and address problem
situations. With close assistance from AquaBio staff and consultants, as well as ANA, IBAMA
andrelevant state government staff, the APs would be prepared bythe stakeholders, setting
priorities and determining social and technical measures (the latter including eventual
sustainable productive small-infrastructure measures), which would cover priorities for
protecting aquatic biodiversity, reducing conflicts among various users o f natural resources, and
improving local communities' living and working conditions.

Sub-component 1.2: Institutional Arrangementsfor Integrated Management of Aquatic
Resources.(US$0.21 m, 1.3% of total cost). This subcomponent would finance the formulation
and discussion, with inputs from experiences generated inthe three project target areas, o f a
proposal for institutional arrangements and processes to allow for the adoption and scaling up o f
this approach to other sub-basins inthe Brazilian Amazon. This sub-component would support
the following activities: (i) organizing and presenting in a user-friendly manner the "lessons-
learned" derived from preparationo fparticipatory diagnostics and formulation o f the APs inthe
three project target areas; (ii)definition o f a menuo f alternatives for the development and
implementationof APs (including proposals for activities, policies, and financial and
institutional arrangements) that could serve as examples for scaling up this approach to other
sub-basins inthe Amazon; and (iii)     seminars and meetingswith interested parties from the other
six Amazonian States inBrazil, to present and discuss (and eventually obtain endorsement of)
the the project's approach for implementingintegrated management o f aquatic resources.

Subcomponent 1.3: Financial Sustainability. (US$O. 1m, 0.6% o f total cost). This
subcomponent would finance the development and implementation o f a financial sustainability
strategy to support the execution o f activities identified inthe APs, beyond the life o f the project,
with pilot financial mechanisms adopted bythe end o fthe project. This would be achieved
through the following activities: (i)  initial identification o fpartners and stakeholders followed by
the establishment o f a common dialogue; (ii)     identification o f the outcomes and activities to be
continued following the closure of the Project; (iii)   assessment o f the potential o f the activities
identified in(ii) above to attract external resources and/or generate financial returns to ensure
their financial sustainability; (iv) identification and/or design o f viable financial
mechanisms/models to support financial sustainability o f selected activities (e.g., public
investmentprograms and funds, environmentally friendly certification schemes, trust funds,
etc.); and (v) the development and implementation o f a financial sustainability action plan to




                                                    47

make the relevant financial mechanisms fully operational. For details on the elements and more
specific activities o f this strategy, see Attachment 1 to this Annex.

Component 2: Demonstration Activities (US$ 6.42 m, 37.5% o fproject cost)

Objectives: This component aims to generate experiences and lessons learned, including new
technologies or production systems, on how to incorporatefreshwater biodiversity concerns into
various productive activities, providing inputs for the development o f APs as the basis to
formulate and implement integrated management of aquatic resources. Demonstration activities
would support this objective, and would be small and few innumbers, but each would have its
own objectives, expected results, and a monitoring plan. The demonstration activities (&
projects) financed by GEF and the Brazilian government under sub-component 2.1 would be
defined based on detailed diagnostics and public consultations inthe three project target areas,
Duringthe initial consultations and diagnostics undertaken as apart ofproject preparation, some
priority themes were identified for possible support. Moreover, a number of other activities are
expected to be co-financed through other relevant programs or institutions under sub-component
2.1 (see Attachment 3 to this Annex). Additional themes are likely to be identified duringthe
more detailed diagnostics and consultations that would be undertaken inthe project target areas
duringthe first year o fproject implementation (PYl),well as duringthe formulation o fthe
                                                          as
APs.

Main outcomes: A limited number (maximum of 30) o f strategic demonstration activities in
various productive sectors, to support implementation of integrated management o f aquatic
resources, developed and tested inproject target areas within three sub-basins o f the Brazilian
Amazon, with positive impacts on aquatic biodiversity, on the reduction o f conflicts among
various users o f natural resources, and on the living conditions o f local communities. This
component would also contribute to the sustainability o f protected areas inthe project impact
area, because the communities around them would have been exposed to examples o f more
sustainable production systems and technologies, and would likely begin to also adopt them,

Main outputs: Implementation o f demonstration activities, based on detailed diagnostic studies
(see sub-component 1.1 above); and development and local dissemination o f at least six
communication and dissemination products, presenting lessons learned and associated
experiences systematized and made available to the stakeholders and general public at the local,
sub-basin, and Brazilian Amazon levels.

Targetgroup: Stakeholders inthe production and public sectors, including producer
associations, CSOs, rural and urban leaders, decision-makers, rural extensionists and other
technical professionals working with natural resource use.

Geographic scope: The component's activities would be limited to the three Project target areas,
composed by the municipalities mentioned incomponent 1.

Sources of funding. This component includes two sub-components financed by different sources
o f funding: i)sub-component 2.1, to be supported by GEF funds and GOBresources, would
provide financial support to the testing o f productionpractices that would facilitate the transition



                                                  48

from non-sustainable practices to sustainable livelihood activities within an integrated
management framework (see Annex 4, Attachment 2 for examples o fpossible subproject
themes); (ii) sub-component 2.2 would be financed under ongoing state and federal programs,
consisting o f subprojects under the re-directed baseline insupport o fmainstreaming o f
freshwater biodiversity (see Annex 4, Attachment 2 for examples o f subproject themes to be
funded under the re-directed baseline).

Sub-component 2.1: Mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity sub-projects. (US$3.33 m, 19.5
of project cost). This sub-component would finance the development and implementation o f a
limitednumber o fpilot demonstration activities (subprojects), to be identified inPY1 duringthe
detailed diagnostics o f the three project target areas, with the objective o f mainstreaming
conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater biodiversity into productive sectors, by generating
examples o f adaptive productive systems and technologies that eliminate or reduce negative
impacts on freshwater ecosystems.

Categories of subprojects eligiblefor grants. Possible activities identified duringproject
preparation (Attachment 2 to this Annex) would fall largely underthe seven categories: (i)      co-
management o f aquatic resources associated with the resolution o f conflicts over access to and
the sustainable use o f fisheries resources; (ii)
                                                management o f access and sustainable use o f
ornamental fisheries resources; (iii)  economic activities that offer alternatives to predatory or
degrading activities, contributing directly to reduced pressure on aquatic biodiversity (e.g. family
production o f vegetables, small animals, beekeeping, handicraft, production o fplant essences,
production and use o f medicinal plants); and (v) ecotourism and the integration o f the
communities into tourism activities in general; (vi) management o f household effluents and o f
solid waste; and (vii) inthe lower Tocantins, training o f local organizations inmanagement and
monitoring o f social and environmental impacts o f the implementation of the Community Plan
for the Sustainable Development o f the Area Downstream of Tucurui Dam - PPDS-JUS.

Subproject beneficiaries. The financial support provided under this subcomponent would be
characterized by demand-driven subproject selection based on proposals prepared and submitted
by eligible project participants livinginproject target areas, with support from project
technicians. It could provide grants to rural and indigenous community groups and organizations,
including fishermen, riverine dwellers, farmer families, ranchers and artisans, as well as to local
NGOs and municipalities.

Number of subprojects and upper thresholdsfor grant applications. Grants to financed sub-
projects would be demand-driven,     .For  project design and appraisal purposes, it i s estimated that
about 30 subprojects (10 per project target area) would be supported under this subcomponent,
with maximum amounts o fUS$30,000 to US$70,000.

Criteriafor eligibility. Criteria for sub-project selection under this component would be specific
for each project target area, and would be developed, duringP Y1, with stakeholder participation
duringthe detailed diagnostic stage. However, andbased on the diagnostics carried out at project
preparation, the following general criteria would guide the elaboration o f specific criteria for
each o f the three Project target areas: proposals would have to (i)  correspond to activities
identified as priorities inthe participatory diagnostic o f each project target area; (ii)
                                                                                         involve the



                                                  49

use and/or conservation o f natural resources; (iii)  whether it addresses the conservation o f
 aquatic biodiversity, or involve activities to counteract the degradation o f aquatic resources; (iv)
have a positive impact on the sustainable use and conservation o f aquatic ecosystems, including
 freshwater biodiversity; (v) potential for positive impacts inrelation to the costs o f implementing
the activity; (e) potential for replication; (vi) be proposed by an officially constituted(pessoa
juridica) local organization, or in association with one; (vii) provide co-financing o f at least 5%
 o f the total sub-project amount, in cash or inkind; (h) have its own M&E systemdeveloped to
monitor sub-project results and impacts; and (viii) have an adequate Environmental Management
Plan. The specific criteria to be used ineach o f the three project target areas would be defined
 after the respective more detailed diagnostics are developed duringthe first year o fproject
implementation, and would be defined inthe Operational Manual in close collaboration with the
Bank.

Sub-component 2.2: Activities in support of mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity sub-
projects (US$3.09 m, 18% o f total cost). This sub-component would support activities, within
the re-directed baseline, that mainstreamthe conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater
biodiversity into existing programs and activities inthe project target areas. Possible activities to
be co-finance by the redirected baseline were identified duringproject preparation, such as (i)
 commercialization of products obtained through the sustainable management of natural
resources; (ii)  alternatives for fire and deforestation control, and environmental education; (iii)
rehabilitation o f native riparian vegetation; (iv) adoption o f integrated solid waste management,
 aimed at water and soil conservation; (v) restorationo f degraded lands, including erosion
 control; and (vi) development of sustainable tourism to generate alternative employment and
 income.

Sub-project beneficiaries and criteria; beneficiaries and criteria o f demonstration activities
 financed under this sub-component would have to comply with the criteria set forth ineach of
the specific re-directedbaseline project or program.

 Component3: BuildingCapacity (US$3.66 m, 21.4% o fproject cost)

 Objectives; The goal o f this component is to help prepare stakeholders, especially local ones
 (including indigenous people), to be able to actively participate inand contribute effectively to
the formulation, implementation, and monitoring o f strategies and action programs aimed at the
 Conservation and sustainable use of freshwater biodiversity and water resources inthe project
 areas, and bringinglocal environmental perspectives and traditional knowledge to this process.
Activities include, among others, support for training (such as on indigenous and environmental
legislation, and conflict resolution techniques), a variety o f capacity buildingactivities (such as
on sustainable fisheries, and co-management approaches), environmental education and the
formation of partnerships. The underlying objective i s to empower local actors, including
indigenous peoples, by leveling the playing field interms o f improving: access to information
(environmental, ecological, political and other types via trainings, environmental education and
other means); ability to exercise citizenship rights as well as duties; and strengthening local
organizations, including indigenous associations, interms ofpreparation and support for more
active participation inpublic debate and inthe to be established sub-basin committees and other
fora.



                                                   50

Main outcomes: Greater operational and decision-making capacity o f institutions and civil
society organizations at local, state, and federal levels inthe BrazilianAmazon, to carry out
medium and long-term planning and manage conflicts insupport o f implementationo f integrated
management o f aquatic resources.

Main outputs: (i)  strengthened institutional capacity to implement integrated management o f
aquatic resources inthree sub-basins, inFederal Government institutions, State governments,.
municipal governments, NGOs, trainer o f trainers and local leaders, including indigenous people,
special interest groups, schools, and local communities; (ii)  at least 10proposals for projects that
contribute to the implementation o f integrated management of aquatic resources developed by
indigenous groups, women's associations, or youth groups, and submitted to other funding
entities (such as PRONAF); (iii) capacity building and environmental education events
                                   150
offered to natural resource users, technicians, and decision makers inthe three sub-basins,
promoting greater interest among the various players inthe implementationo f integrated
management o f aquatic resources; (iv) awarenessraising events for effective participation in
integrated management o f aquatic resources held inlocal communities, schools, andNGOs.

Targetgroups: Activities would target institutions and people. Among the institutions, priority
would be given to those that can contribute most to the management o f aquatic biodiversity and
water resources, such as community and producer associations, NGOs, and government
institutions. Among individuals, special attentionwould be givento those from producer
associations, rural and urbanleaders, decision-makers, those responsible for activities, programs,
and agencies related to aquatic biodiversity and water resources, and technicians from
institutions related to natural resource use (such as rural extension agents).

Geographic scope: Environmental education, training and other capacity buildingactivities
would initially concentrate inthe three project target areas, but some training would be offered to
stakeholders at the three sub-basins (state level) and o f the whole Brazilian Amazon. The
majority of actions would be developed inrural areas, inorder to reach, as much as possible,
those populations who are the most dependent on the use o f natural resources.

Sub-component 3.1: Training. (US$2.55 m, 14.9% o f project cost). This sub-component would
finance: (i)environmental training for agents and facilitators (multipliers), so they can obtain a
clearer understanding o f the interactions, concept and principles o f integrated management o f
aquatic biodiversity, so as to promote them into water resources management processes; and (ii)
operational training for producer associations and farmers, to adopt technologies and traditional
knowledge appropriate for the conservation and sustainable use o fbiodiversity and water
resources.
Training would include two broad categories o f beneficiaries: institutions and people.
Institutions are especially lacking inskills related to management and institutional development.
Among the institutions, priority would be given to those that can contribute most to the
management o f aquatic biodiversity and water resources, such as community associations,
cooperatives, NGOs, and government institutions. The group o f "people" would be comprised
mainly o friverine dwellers, farmerkanchers, indigenous people, artisans who use natural
resources, rural and urban leaders, decision-makers, those responsible for activities, programs



                                                  51

and agencies relatedto aquatic biodiversity and water resources, and technicians o f entities
related to natural resource use. The majority o fthe beneficiaries would act at the local level in
the project target areas, but the benefits o f training would reach the states o f Mato Grosso, Para,
and Amazonas, where entities and technicians would attend training events, seminars, and
workshops directed at aquatic biodiversity management.

Sub-component 3.2: Environmental Education. (US$0.61m, 3.6% of total cost). The objective
o f this sub-component i s to improve the awareness and knowledge, among project stakeholders,
o f the main questions and problems that affect aquatic biodiversity and water resources inthe
Amazon Basin, and their relationship to the living conditions o f communities living inthe
Amazon Basin. This sub-component would finance the following activities: (i)        increased
awareness among local stakeholders about issues relevant to freshwater biodiversity, through
meetings, brochures, folders, debates, radio programs, etc; (ii)   creation o f conditions that foster
changes inhuman and organizational behavior, through the establishment o f working groups at
the local and state level, execution o f specific tasks, field days, seminars, and other forms o f
exchange o f experiences; (iii) formal educational activities (e.g., development o f educational
materials for schools and curriculum modification, school-based competitions inwriting, theatre,
poetry, etc.); and (iv) non-formal educational activities (e.g., group stock-taking and
dissemination of relevant lessons-learned; exchange o f experiences among communities; support
for the creation o f voluntary groups to take care o f environmentalmanagement; etc.

Subcomponent 3.3: Institutional Strengthening. (US$0.26m, 1.5%o f total cost). The objective
o f this sub-component i s to promote the formation o f partnerships among existing organizations
and strengthening or supporting the creation o f on the ground initiatives for establishing
community associations and rural cooperatives relatedto the sustainable use o f aquatic
biodiversity and water resources. Specific activities supported under this sub-component would
include: (i) fostering the establishment o f partnerships among relevant social organizations; (ii)
helpingto create or strengthen organizations relatedto the conservation o f freshwater
ecosystems, by involving them inthe development and implementation o f strategies that lead to
greater effectiveness o f their own activities; and (iii)targeted support to special interest groups,
such as women, indigenous communities, and youth.

Subcomponent 3.4: Sustainable Public Forafor Integrated Aquatic Resources
Management.(US$0.23 m, 1.4% o f project cost). This sub-component would finance the
development or strengthening, and partial implementation o f an Institutional Framework that
would support the sustainability o f Project activities and results well beyond the life o f the
Project. This sub-component would enhance the opportunities for discussion, conflict
management, and decision-making, and strengthen the instances o f coordination and support to
local/territorial development, such as development or strengthening o f fora and local councils in
the three project target areas.

Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and Information
Dissemination (US$ 5.80 m, 33.8% o fproject cost)

Objectives; The objective o fthis component would be to coordinate, manage, and monitor, on a
continuous basis, all activities supported under the project, as well as disseminate project results



                                                    52

andlessons-learned at the local, sub-basin, national and international level. This component
would collaborate with other related projects and programs, especially those inthe re-directed
baseline, to ensure the development and implementation o f integrated management o f aquatic
resources on a pilot basis.

Main outcomes: (i)   effective participation, including financial support o f different government
sectoral institutions, civil society, and the private sector, inproject activities including those
associated with the preparation and implementation o f the APs; (ii)    a systemto monitor project
impacts fully implemented with participation o f local stakeholders; (iii)   a physical and financial
monitoring system (SIGMA) implemented and providing information for continued
improvement o f project implementation; (iv) an Aquatic Biodiversity Information System
developed and generating information available to the general public; and (v) project results
disseminated through events and media campaigns that lead to the adoption o f practices for
integrated management o f aquatic resources by institutions and civil society ingeneral.

Targetgroup: Principal beneficiarieswould be government and other technical staff and natural
resource users inthe demonstration areas, as well as inother Brazilian Amazonian states and in
member countries o f the Amazon Cooperation Treaty Organization (ACTO). Inaddition, the
M&E system would benefit researchinstitutions, advocacy groups, and society at largewith an
interest inthe long-term conservation o f freshwater ecosystems inthe Amazon Basin.

Geographic scope: This component would act indifferent scales inthe Amazon Basin, in
accordance with its respective sub-components. At the most restricted scale, Project
Management would focus on the three project target areas o f direct project intervention, and at
the broadest scale, the all the countries that share the Amazon Basin constitute the sphere for the
Project Dissemination sub-component.

Sub-component 4.1. Management and Coordination. (US$3.10 m, 18.1% o f total cost). This
sub-component would coordinate, at the federal, sub-basin, and local levels, the internal and
external actions needed for project execution, including (i)    entering data into the SIGMA and
usingthe resultinginformation for daily decision making for successful project implementation;
(ii) executionofprojectrelatedprocurement,financialandaccountingprocedures;(iii)
    the
consolidating expense and other implementationreports, and offering guidance and training on
improved managerial skills for all parties involved inproject implementation; (iv) fostering
integration among the various components andwith other relatedprojects and programs; and (v)
identifying and indicatingpossible need for changes inproject implementation procedures.

Sub-component 4.2. Monitoring and Evaluation. (US$2.24 m, 13.1% o f total cost). This sub-
component would (i)    implement the project monitoring system (SIGMA), (ii)         monitor daily
progress inproject execution, (iii)   measure the impacts o f project actions, and (iv) disseminate
management and planning informationboth within the Project itself and to beneficiaries, partner
institutions, and society. Another objective would be the creation and implementation o f the
aquatic biodiversity information system (SIBA), first inthe Project target areas and later
expanding throughout the Amazon. This would be accomplished through: (i) uploading  regular
of current project information into the SIGMA; (ii)    carrying-out regular meetings with the
Steering Committee and State and Local Project Committees, and producing and disseminating



                                                   53

minutes o f such meetings; (iii) elaboration o f semester Project Implementation Reports; (iv)
carrying-out the necessary activities to achieve the implementation and operation o f the SIBA,
andto make its information available to the general public; (v) follow the implementationo f
Project activities inall components, and make sure they are all integrated inthe best possible
way to achieve Project objectives; and (vi) supervise implementation o f the individual
monitoring plans for each demonstration activity to ensure that they are progressing accordingly
to plan, and suggest modifications where necessary. A detailed description o f this sub-
component can be found inAnnex 3.

Sub-component 4.3. Information Dissemination. (US$0.45 m, 2.6% o f total cost). The objective
of this sub-component i s to provide institutions and civil society, systematized knowledge,
validated experiences, and strategies that can be adapted for the integrated management o f
aquatic biodiversity and water resources. Information disseminationwould grow and diversify as
project implementation progresses. Inthe first year, its principal focus would be on the
dissemination o f basic information to raise awareness about Aquabio throughout the Brazilian
Amazon. Beginning inthe second year, disseminationo f results to potential users would begin
and continue to build and diversify leading to the distribution o f "lessons learned" inthe
Project's final years. A dissemination event at the national level, with participation from other
member states o f the ACTO, would take place during the third year o f project implementation.
On a day-to-day basis, the following dissemination media would be employed: (i) page home
(project news, technical information, results attained); (ii)printed monthly report (project news
sent to the states and municipalities o f the demonstration areas); (iii) for the media (print,
                                                                        news
radio, and television); (iv) educational programs to be transmitted by radio; (v) educational
programs on videotape to be shown on regional TV and used informal education and/or
meetings and courses; (vi) printed material for distribution especially inthe demonstration areas:
booklets, folders, reports; and (vii) other media that may eventually be identified duringthe
course o f the project.




                                                  54

   Attachment 1: Proposed Methodology for the Project Financial Sustainability Strategy

The project subcomponent 1.3 would develop and implement a financial sustainability strategy
to support the execution o f selected activities under the Action Programs for integrated
management o f aquatic resources (APs), beyond the life o f the project, with pilot financial
mechanisms adopted by the end o f the project. This would be achieved through the following
activities: (i)
              initial identification o fpartners and stakeholders followed by the establishment o f a
common dialogue; (ii)   identification o f the outcomes and activities to be continued following the
closure of the Project; (iii) assessment o f the potential o f the activities identified in(ii) to
                                                                                             above
attract external resources and/or generate financial returns to ensure their financial sustainability;
(iv) identification and/or design o fviable financial mechanisms/models to support financial
sustainability (e.g., public investment programs and funds, environmentally friendly certification
schemes, trust funds, etc.); and (v) the development and implementation o f an action plan to
make the relevant financial mechanisms fully operational.

The methodological approach to develop the sustainability framework and strategy has been
developed duringproject preparation, and entails the following major lines o f action:

1)Building Partnerships and Alliances: the objective is to establish a dialogue with partners and
stakeholders that have vested interests inbeing involved with the AquaBio project and
potentially would support, with financial and/or humanresources, project activities and
outcomes at local, national, regional and international level.

2) Identzfjing Budgets and Financial Mechanisms and/or Revenues: the objective i s to identify
public budgets that can be tapped, assess the functioning o f existing financial mechanisms and
funds, and/or design new financial mechanisms that couldbe establish to facilitate external or
self-financing structures to support the activities; and /or start activities that generate additional
revenues;

3) Implement the Financial Sustainability Strategy: the objective i s to start implementingthe
strategy inproject year 5 and 6 to make sure that it i s taken up and to be able to address
difficulties while the project i s still ongoing.

Expected outcome of the subcomponent: A financial sustainability framework indicating
monetary resources and commitments human resource and eventually political support, and o f
engaged public and private institutions/organizations to sustain outcomes and activities o f
AquaBio for the next 10-15 years after project termination;

Duringthe implementationo fthe project the following sequenceo f activities will bepursued
which will be mainly carried out by the project coordinator, an assisting national financial
sustainability expert, short term national assignments with consultants and local organizations:

1.2.1. Initial identification of partners and stakeholders followed by the establishment of a
common dialogue: This activity promotes an ongoing lobbying effort at national and
international level and throughout project implementation to establish a dialogue with partners
and stakeholders having vested interests in being involved with and continuing and financing
Aquabio activities after the termination of the project. This dialogue will be held with


                                                   55

national/provincial/local government agencies, municipalities, civil society organizations, multi-
lateralhi-lateral development agencies, non-governmental organizations, private foundations,
private sector organization, academic institutions, etc. Part o f the dialogue would also be to
define how outcomes o f AquaBio Project would feed into the PPG7 plan and other existing
national policy plans and frameworks.

 1.2.2Identification of the outcomes and activities to be continued following the closure of the
Project: This activity aims at the identification o f AquaBio activities and outcomes that should
be continued and sustained according to local and national actors on a recurrent basis after the
termination o f the grant-funded project implementation phase. Through a consultative process it
will be defined which AquaBio activities and outcomes should be continued, which one's could
be economically self-sustained in the long run and which one's would need external funding,
what would be the actions undertaken to continue, by whom, what would be the recurrent costs
involved, what commitments could be made o f various actors to get engaged. This activity would
include sub-activities such as i)assessinginstitutional and human resource capacity to follow-up
with implementation, monitoring and formalisation o f outcomes e.g. (1) the fishing agreements
 and (2) the APs in the project pilot sub-basins o f Negro, Xingu, and Tocantins at the federal
 institutional level; ii)a participatory evaluation and assessment o f good practice outcomes
 enhancing conservation of freshwater biodiversity through improved integrated management o f
water resources in the Amazon Basin; and iii)an evaluation o f the Freshwater Biodiversity
 Information System (SIBA);

Activity 1.2.3Assessment of the potential of the activities ident$ed in 1.2.2 above to attract
external resources and/or generatejnancial returns to ensure theirjnancial sustainability: This
 activity focuses on determining profiles o f the desired outcomes and activities in order to assess
their potentiality to generate revenues for self-sustaining or for attracting external funding.This
will include a) assess the relevance o fAquaBio outcomes to the Amazon Basin and to the global
 fora b) the diffusion and awareness raising o f these outcomes at national and international level,
including, among others, presentations o f the project results inthree international scientific and
/or political conferencedevents relatedto aquatic resources andbiodiversity.

Activity 1.2.4Identijkation and/or design of viablejnancial mechanisms/models to support
jnancial sustainability (e.g., public investmentprograms and funds, environmentally friendly
 certification schemes, trust funds, etc.): This activity supports the identification o f existing
public sources, the assessment o f existing financial mechanisms and the design o f new and
innovative funds to finance AquaBio project outcomes and activities to be continued and
sustained within existingpolicy regulations. Under this activity the following sub-activities will
be conducted:

 Stepl: Public promams and public budget funds: Identify and discuss how different government
programs/ public institutionprograms can integrate AquaBio activities intheir programmes and
budgets comprising a) state and national regular program funds (IBAMA, ANA, SBF, SRH,
other MMA secretariats), b) the IntegratedRural Development Plan o f Eletronorte (PPDS/Jus);

SteD 2: Existing public and private funds: Identify existing and well-functioning funds for
follow-up of projects activities (at local, regional and national, international level). Inparticular,
this would include a) assess the functiqning o frevolving local development funds at municipality


                                                  56

level (e.g. inRio Xingu- administered by the Agriculture Secretary) b) assess the potentials o f
the national water tariff law (Outorga) to collect revenues and establish a fund managed by local
water user associations (inRio Xingu and Tocantins); c) assess how royalty payments from
Eletronorte could support activities developed under the AquaBio project through a local
development fund to reduce the pressure on aquatic resources (mainly for Tocantins, Xingu);

Step 3: New Innovative Funds/ Financial Mechanisms: Design, based on the assessmentmade,
new innovative funds that support the implementation o f activities ina economically feasible and
sustainable way. Inparticular this would include: a) assess the possibility to establish
local/regional funds suppliedby law enforcement payments from illegal activities related to
damaging aquatic ecosystems5;b) understand the functioning o f the ICMS- Ecologico inPara
and evaluate how the tax reduction system for ecological production could be o f any relevance to
the AquaBio project; c) identify and develop payment mechanism for selected environmental
services which would be funded through global and local funds e.g. (prototype carbon fund, bio-
carbon fund, community fund).

STEP 4: Improve access to markets o f local products though labeling: Assess the possibility to
establish a brand for commodities produced under conditions (such as indigenous and/or organic
products) that reduce the negative impacts on freshwater biodiversity inthe Amazon Basin. This
brand would enhance sustainable production systems and at the same time improve market
access (inparticular for Rio Xingu).

Activity 1.2.4Thedevelopment and implementation of an actionplan to make the velevant
Jinancial mechanismsfully opevational: this activity aims at the finalization andpromotion and
implementation of the financial sustainability framework and strategy, duringPOY5 and PY06,
indicatingpolitical, human resource and monetary commitments to sustain outcomes o f AquaBio
from public and private institutions and actors for the next 10-15 years. To facilitate the
implementation o f the Financial Sustainability Strategy project staff, local organisations and
local actors will be capacitated inmanaging funds, financial mechanisms, writing applications
for global funds, learning about fund raising strategies indifferent training workshops
throughout the project implementationwhich will be carried out under Component 3 capacity-
building.Additionally, stakeholder consultations will be held ineach sub-basin to confirm the
commitment and possible contribution (humancapacity and financial capacity) o f local actors
and their interest in sustaining activities, and to consult what financial sustainability mechanism
could be applied and how continued monitoring and evaluation could be covered.




 This activity shouldbeclosely coordinated with the Prograrnade Desenvolvimento Socioambientalda ProduploFamiliar Rural(Proarnbiente)
which developedarange of different local social and development funds.



                                                                   57

  Attachment 2: Illustrative Demonstration Activities to be Financed under Component 2

The followingpriority themes, for financing under the GEF financed Mainstreaming o f
Freshwater Biodiversity Sub-projects (Comp 2, sub-component l),         have been identified during
project preparation for the three Project sub-basins:

Negro River sub-basin: (i)    co-management o f aquatic resources associated with the resolution o f
conflicts over access to and the sustainable use o f fisheries resources (areas to be defined inthe
detailed diagnostic inPYO1); (ii)   management o f access and sustainable use o f ornamental
fisheries resources (areas to be definedinthe detailed diagnostic inPYO1); (iii)    economic
activities that offer alternatives to predatory or degrading activities, contributing directly to
reduced pressure on aquatic biodiversity (e.g. family production o f vegetables, small animals,
beekeeping, handicraft, production o fplant essences, production and use o f medicinal plants);
and (v) ecotourism and the integration o f the communities into tourism activities ingeneral.

Xingu River sub-basin: (i)     co-management o f aquatic resources associated with support to
improved sustainable management o f lands for agriculture and ranching; restoration and
conservation o f riparian forests (areas to be defined inthe detailed diagnostic inPYO1); (ii)
family production of vegetables, small animals, beekeeping, handicraft, production o fplant
essences and/or medicinal plants; and (iii)  management o fhousehold effluents and o f solid
waste.

Tocantins River sub-basin: (i)   co-management o f aquatic resources associated with the resolution
of conflicts over access and sustainable use o f fisheries resources (areas to be defined inthe
detailed diagnostic inPYO1); (ii)   support to actions to improve the sustainable management o f
land for agricultural use (areas to be defined inthe detailed diagnostic inPYO1); and (iii)    training
of local organizations inmanagement and monitoring o f social and environmental impacts o f the
implementationo f PPDS-JUS.




                                                   58

Attachment3: IllustrativeDemonstrationActivitiesto be Co-financedunder Component2

The following priority themes, for financing under the Activities in Support o f Mainstreamingo f
Freshwater Biodiversity Sub-projects (non-GEF financed), have beenidentified during project
preparation for two o f the Project sub-basins:

Interstitial Areas within the Central Amazon Eco1og;icalCorridors Proiect. The Project objective
i s to implement biodiversity conservation inthe interstitial areas o f the corridor (outside
conservation units and indigenous areas) and promote the conservation and development o f
sustainable forms o f landuse. It i s directed specifically toward the private sector, community
groups, and NGOs. Priority support would be givento areas contiguous to conservation units
and indigenous lands. Two thematic areas o f sub-projects would provide support to Sub-
component 2 o f the AquaBio project: (i)   promotion o f sustainable management to foster local
support for changes inland use inpriority areas while addressing the economic needs of
populations affectedby the corridor. Examples o f sub-projects include management of well-
preserved ecosystems, restoration o f degraded ecosystems, commercialization o f products
obtained through the sustainable management o f natural resources, alternatives for fire and
deforestation control, and environmental education; and (ii)   promotion o f conservation and
environmental education principally inPrivate Natural Heritage Reserves (RPPN), Legal
Reserves, and Permanent Preservation Areas. This thematic area could include legal and
technical assistance to landowners for the creation o f RPPNs, economic proposals o f low
environmental impact, training innatural resource management, and income-generating
initiatives, such as tourism.

Restoration o f Water Springs and Riparian Areas (DIFLOWSBF). The Forestry Directorate o f
the Environment Ministry, through the National Environment Fund, i s completing the
preparation o f a call for proposals aimed at restoring riparian forests. Resources from this hnd
are expected to finance three demonstration projects inthe Xingu and Tocantins river sub-basins.

State Program for the Strategic Conservation o f Riparian Forests (PEPE). The lines o f action o f
this Government o f Mato Grosso supported Program include the restoration o f degraded riparian
forests, interventions to halt erosion- including improvement o f rural roads, training o f rural
producers, and the promotion of environmental awareness.

National Environmental Proaam (PNMA 11). This actions associated with this multi-donor
supported Program (World Bank, Governments o f Brazil and Mato Grosso) are designed to
promote integrated solid waste management, aimed at water and soil conservation, restoration of
degraded lands, interventions to halt erosion, training o frural producers, and development of
sustainable tourism to generate alternative employment and income. The project would work in
17 municipalities inMato Grosso, including Canarana and Agua Boa where actions are foreseen
for the appropriate disposal o f solid waste through the construction o f sanitary landfills and
training intheir operation.




                                                  59

                                                  Annex 5: ProjectCosts
             Brazil:IntegratedManagementof Aquatic Resourcesinthe AmazonRegion AquaBio        -

                                        ProjectCostsby Componentand Subcomponent
                                                         (US$ '000)


                                                                 Government Government
                                                 GOB*     GEF    Mato Grosso  Amazonas  Beneficiaries  Total

                                                Amount   Amount   Amount      Amount       Amount     Amount    '/a

 1 Planning and Public Policy
     1,ISub-basinaction programs                    136.1  785.6                                    -   921.7      5.4
     1.2 institutionalarrangementsfor
         Integratedmanagement                        30.3  184.9                                    -   215.2      1.3

     1.3 Financialsustainability                      9.0   91.1                                    -    100.0     0.6
     Subtotal cornp. 1                              175.4 1,061.6                                   -  1,257.0     7.3
 2 Demonstration activities
     2.1 Mainstreaming freshwater biodiversity
         sub-projects                             1,473.4 1,781.7                                78.9  3,334,O  19.5
     2.2 Activities in support of mainstreaming
         freshwater biodiversitysub-projects     2,024.1                482.5     586.0                3,092.7  18.0

     Subtotal comp. 2                             3,497.5 1,781.7       482.5     586.0          78.9  6,426.7  37.5
 3 Building capacity
     3.1 Training                                   966.1 1,586.4                                    - 2,552.5  14.9
     3.2 Environmental education                     82.1   536.1                                    -   618.3     3.6
     3.3 Institutionalstrengthening                  32.6   230.5                                    -   263.1     1.5
     3.4 Sustainablepublicfora for
        integratedmanagement                         23.1   209.4                                    -   232.5     1.4

     Subtotal comp. 3                             1,103.9 2,562.5                                    - 3,666.4  21.4
 4 Management, M&E and dissemination
     4.1 Management and coordination              2,224.5   877.4                                    - 3,101.9    18.1

     4.2 Monitoringand evaluation                 1,600.4   648.6                                    - 2,249.0    13.1
     4.3 Disseminationof information                202.3   248.2                                    -   450.4     2.6

     Subtotal comp. 4                             4,027.1 1,774.2                                    - 5,801.3    33.8

Total PROJECTCOSTS                                8,803.9 7,180.0       482.5      586.0          78.9 17,131.4 100.0




     * The co-financing        from the Government of Brazil (GOB)would be constituted o f (i)
                                                                                            US$6,779,844 of
     own budget resources allocated to MMA and IBAMA; (ii)         US$1,465,001 from the Ecological Corridors
     re-directed baseline; and (iii)      US$559,098 from the PNMA I1re-directedbaseline.




                                                              60

                                      Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
         Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon Region-AquaBio

The institutional implementation arrangements described below reflect the diversity o f
institutional capacity and interest in freshwater biodiversity issues demonstrated by various
potential partners duringproject preparation. Given that this i s a process project and a basic
premise o f integrated management o f aquatic resources i s involving new stakeholders and
partners, some modification to the arrangements are expected over time.

The Government o fBrazilwould be the Grant recipient, with the Ministryo fEnvironment
(MMA) as the ExecutingAgency through its Secretariat ofBiodiversity andForests (SBF).

Project Steering Committee. The National Biodiversity Commission (CONABI06) was selected
to serve as the Project Steering Committee because o f its composition, which includes
representatives from key ministries, civil society organizations, and representatives o f sectors
that use biodiversity resources. The choice o f CONABIO i s also based on its mandate, defined
inArt. 6 o fDecreeNo. 4.339 o fAugust22,2002. Its first responsibility was coordinatingthe
preparationo f the National Biodiversity Policy (PNB). Inrelation to the PNB, CONABIO i s
also responsible for:

           Proposing measures for the implementation o fthe PNB, promoting the decentralization
           o f the execution o f actions, and ensuringthe participation o f interested sectors;
           Providing technical assistance to public and private agents responsible for the execution
           o f the PNB within the country, so that its principles, guidelines, and objectives are
           complied with;
           Promoting linkage among programs, projects, and activities with regard to the
           implementation o f the PNB's principles and guidelines, and promoting the integration of
           relevant sectoral policies;
           Identifyingthe need for and proposing the creation or modification o f instruments needed
           for the proper execution o f principles and guidelines for implementation o f the PNB;
           Promoting inter-institutional and international cooperation for the implementationo f the
           PNB's principles and guidelines;
           Promoting debates and public consultations on issues related to the formulation o f
           proposals regarding the PNB;
           Creating and coordinating technical chambers consisting o f invitees and members, for the
           purpose o f promoting discussion and linkage on relevant issues for the implementation o f
           the PNB's principles and guidelines;




   CONABIO is comprised of representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Supply, Ministry of
Science and Technology, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Foreign Relations, Ministry o f Planning, Budget, and Management, Ministry of
Agrarian Development, Ministry of National Integration, IBAMA, Brazilian Association o f State EnvironmentalEntities (ABEMA), National
Confederationof Agricultural Workers (CONTAG), Brazilian Society for the Progress of Science (SBPC), Brazilian Academyof Science (ABC),
Brazilian Forumof NGOs (Environmental and Social NGOs), and Coordination of Amazonian Indigenous Organizations(COIAB). CONABIO
will invite ANA to participate as an invited member in all meetings where AquaBio-related issues are discussed. Other institutions and
organizationswould also beinvitedto participatedependinguponagenda items to be discussed. .




                                                                 61

     0   Monitoring and evaluating the execution o fthematic components for the implementation
         o f the PNB's principles and guidelines, and coordinatingthe preparationo f national
         reports onbiodiversity;
     0   Monitoring the execution o fplanned actions to fulfill the principles and guidelines for the
         implementation o f the PNB; and
     0   Proposing PRONABIO's overall guidelines in support o f the execution o fplanned
         actions for the implementation o f the PNB's principles and guidelines, and identifying
         demands and sources o f financial resources.

Inaddition, CONABIO also hasnumerous other responsibilities associatedwith the conservation
o fbiodiversity inBrazil, such as: (i)               identifying and proposingpriority actions for biodiversity
research, conservation, sustainable use, monitoring, evaluation, prevention andmitigation o f
impacts as well as distribution o fbenefits derived from use o fbiodiversity resources; (ii)
promoting the implementation o f commitments made by the GOBinrelation to the Convention
on Biological Diversity (CBD); (iii)                encouraging inter-institutionaland international cooperation
for the implementation o f the principles and guidelines o f the CBD inthe country.

Inrelation to project implementation, it hasbeen agreed that CONABIO -- inits role as Project
Steering Committee -would fulfill the following functions7:


     0   Foster the incorporationo f experiences and lessons learned generated by the project into
         national public policy, especially sectoral ones
     0   Assess and validate the Annual Operational Plans (POAs);
     0   Participateinproject evaluation; and
     0   Support the identification and monitor the implementationo f measures to correct
         problems identified duringproject implementation.

Proiect Coordination Unit. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), constituted by MMA staff,
would be established within the Secretariat o f Biodiversity and Forests (SFB/MMA). The PCU
would be supported inthe financial management and procurement functions by MMA's
Executive Secretariat (SECEWMMA), who would execute such functions. However, for the
first two years o fthe project it has been agreed that UNESCO would carry out procurement (see
Annexes 7 and 8). The Project CoordinationUnit would at minimumconsist o f one manager,
three component coordinators, and two administrative assistants with duties inthe areas of
bidding, contracts and accounting, as well as three administrative support staff.

The PCUwould have responsibility for, among others:


     0   Managing and executing the project;
     0   Managing financial resources and procurement;
     0   Reportingon the application o fresources and results achieved;




  At CONABIO's discretion, these attributions, or part of them, may be delegatedto a thematic committee constituted by a subset of CONABIO
members, andcomplementedwith appropriateexpertsas needed.




                                                                    62

    0   Preparing management reports for the Secretary o f Biodiversity and Forests, CONABIO,
        and other lead agencies;
    0   Promoting interinstitutional linkages;
    0   Monitoring, evaluating, and disseminating project results;
    0   Coordinating with ACTO and ANA on issues related to the interface between the
        AquaBio and the ACTO/UNEP/OAS GEF Project for the Amazon Basin (under
        preparation); and
    0   Coordinating with other Donors and Programs, including USAID's Amazon Basin
        Conservation Initiative.

State Project Committees. For each sub-basin, a State Project Committee would be formally
established by the end o f the first year o fproject implementation.These Committees would have
responsibilities for:
    0   Servingas a vehicle for mainstreamingproject experiences and lessons at the state level
        for planning and public policies;
    0   Assessing and validating sub-basin Annual OperatingPlans (POAs);
    0   Reviewing and approving the Sub-Basin Action Programs (APs);
    0   Reviewing and approving target area demonstration activities (subprojects);
    0   Monitoring project execution, and suggesting necessary adjustments;
    0   Supporting project implementation through inter-institutional coordination, inparticular
        among institutions and programs contributing to the implementation o f the re-directed
        baseline;
    0   Mediating possible conflicts between or among groups o f stakeholders; and
    0   Promoting the replication o f the experiences o f the project target are inother priority
        areas o f the sub-basin.

The composition o f each State Project Committee would be discussed and agreed with
stakeholders duringthe first year; it i s expected to have a maximumo f 10 members, selected to
represent governmental and nongovernmental stakeholders. However, it has been already agreed
that the coordinators o f the followingprojects would berepresented inthe relevant State Project
Committees: NEP inMato Grosso, Ecological Corridors inAmazonas, and Para Integrated
Development inPara. When necessary, these Committees Advisory Councils would have the
support o f ad-hoc consultants hired by the project, to provide expert advice on specific issues.

Ineach o fthe three sub-basins the MMAwouldbe responsible for project execution, with
support from the following institutions: (i) the Tocantins sub-basin, -1BAMA and the Pari
                                              in
State Secretariat of Environment (SECTAM); (ii)       inthe Xingusub-basin, IBAMAand the Mato
Grosso State Secretariat o f Environment - SEMA; (iii)    for the Negro sub-basin, IBAMA and the
Amazonas State Secretariat o f Sustainable Development - SDS. Project execution at the sub-
basin level would mostly utilize existing managerial, technical and administrative structures of
partner institutions. Such arrangements, building on existing institutional and technical expertise,
would foster a more efficient, less expensive, and faster implementation o f AquaBio. IBAMA
would also provide direct involvement o f staff from its newly created FishingResearch and
Management Center for the Northern Region (CEPNOR) inManaus. That office i s beingopened
to give institutional sustainability to ProVarzeaproject activities after project implementation i s
completed, as well as to support implementation o f the AquaBio and ensure coordination o f


                                                  63

project activities with other IBAMA offices inthe Amazon region. FUNAIwill also assist MMA
inproject execution activities inareaswhere indigenous peoples arepresent. MMAwill enter
into technical cooperation agreements with IBAMA, SECTAM, SEMA, SDS and FUNAI to
establish their respective roles and responsibilities inthe project execution.

Inaddition, Local Proiect Committees would beestablished for eachProjecttarget area, and
would be comprised o f representatives o f existing local governmental and nongovernmental
institutions and organizations and, whenever possible, this would include representatives o f
existing municipal development committees to facilitate later mainstreaming o f project
experiences into municipal public policies. The composition o f each Local Project Committee
would be discussed and agreed at the completion o f the detailed target area diagnostic by the end
of the first year o f the project. Their responsibilities would be to:
    0    Serve as a vehicle for mainstreamingproject experiences and lessons into local level and
         municipal planning and public policy;
    0    Prepare and endorse the annual work plan for the Project target area;
    0    Assess and validate the action program (APs);
    0    Review and endorse the selection o f demonstration activities (subprojects);
    0    Supervise and monitor the implementation o fproject activities, and
    0    Mediate existing conflicts between and among groups o f stakeholders inthe Project
         target area.

Ineach Projecttarget area, the MMAwould hire technical specialists to carry out project
implementation at the local level, under supervision o f the PCU and in close coordination with
the respective sub-basin State Project Committee. Inaddition the PCU would also contract
specialized institutions with established activities at the local level, such as specialized NGOs,
universities, foundations, or research institutions, for the execution o f all or part o f the planned
actions ineach respective Project target area. Some potential partners identified to date are: (i)    in
the Negro River sub-basin -FundaqBo Vitoria Amazonica (FVA), the National Amazon
Research Institute (INPA), and Institutefor Ecological Research (IPE); (ii)      inthe Xingusub-
basin-the Socio-Environmental Institute (ISA), the Environmental Organization for the
Roncador-Araguaia Area (ONGARA), and the State University o f Mato Grosso (UNEMAT);
and (iii) the Tocantins sub-basin - the Association o f Organizations for Social and
          in
EducationalAssistance (FASE), Amazon Research Institute (IPAM), and the Federal University
o f Para (UFPA).




                                                   64


a
a

            Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
Brazil: Integrated Managementof Aquatic Resourcesin the Amazon Region              - AquaBio


I-FMAssessment

    1. Grant/Project objectives:

The Grant will provide funds and assist the Government o f Brazil inits goal o f implementing
an integrated management o f aquatic resources inthe Brazilian Amazon, and help to make it
effective and sustainable.

    2. Grant Executing Agency:

The Grant will be implemented by the Environment Ministrythrough its Biodiversity and
Forests Secretariat. A project implementation group i s beingcreated to execute and implement
the administrative functions o f all Projects under SBF's responsibility.

    3, Financial Management Assessment:

A financial management risk assessmentwas carried out inOctober 2005, inaccordance with
OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements in
World Bank Financed Projects issuedby the Financial Management Sector Board on October
15,2003. The purpose o f the assessmenti s to determine whether the IA (Implementing
Agency) has or will have by effectiveness acceptable financial management and disbursements
arrangements inplace to adequately control, manage, account and report about the funds to be
allocated to this Project. These arrangements include, but are not limitedto its capacity to: (a)
properly manage and account for all Grant's proceeds, expenditures and transactions, (b)
produce timely, accurate and reliable financial statements and reports, including Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for Project Management and other Bank purposes, (c) safeguard
the Project's assets, and (c) disburse Bank funds inthe most efficient way, in accordance to
applicable Bank rules and procedures. The assessment involved analysis o f a) Budgeting,
financial, accounting and reporting system; b) financial and administrative staffto be engaged
inthe Project; c) review o ffunds flow mechanism, d) review o finternal controls and
administrativeprocedures, e) disbursement methodology; f) reporting requirements, including
format, contents and frequency o f FMRs submission to the Bank, and g) external audit
arrangements.

    4. Conclusion o f Financial Management Assessment:

The conclusion o f the FM assessment i s that the financial management arrangements as set
out for this Grant, satisfy the Bank's minimumrequirements and that financial management
systems are inplace that can effectively control and monitor the Project preparation financed
by the Grant, and provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
progress o f Project implementation.



                                                67

    5. Financial Management Risk Analysis:

        The overall financial management risk associated with this project i s considered low,
as demonstrated inthe Risk Frameworkbelow:

RiskFramework




H-High, S - Substantial, M-Moderate, L Low     -
This is a federal Project and there are no major FMor accountability risks.
FMstrengths: full integration with overall PFM o f STN, good systems SIAFI and SIGMA.
Riskmitigation measures: annual supervision Missions, review ofquarterly unaudited
financial statements, review o f SOEs, yearly audit.

I1- Financial Management Arrangements

    6. Project ImplementationUnit & Staffing:

The Grant will be implemented under the Coordination o f the MMA (Environment Ministry)
through its Biodiversity and Forests Secretariat. The PCUwill have a Financial Coordination
incharge o fall Administrative/Financialmatters, and legal documentation, accounting,
disbursing, reporting and systems operation. Duringthe first two years o fproject
implementationUNESCO will provide assistance inthe procurement o f part goods, services
and hiringo f consultants. It i s expected that UNESCO would disburse between 10% and
15% o f Grant funds duringthose initial two years. Project procurement for years 3 to 6 o f
project implementationwould be fully carried out by the MMA, after enough staff are trained
and assigned to perform these functions. The Bank conducted a Financial Management
Assessment o f UNESCO inBrazil inAugust o f 2002, with satisfactory results.

After UNESCO ceases to provide assistance for project implementation, all disbursements
would be made directly by MMA.A t that time, ifthe Bank and the Recipient agree that some
of the procurement and disbursement functions should be decentralized to the State level, all

                                                68

new disbursingentities would be assessed by the Bank regardingtheir financial management
and procurement capabilities before any disbursements can actually take place.

     7. Flow o f Funds and Disbursement of Grant Funds:

As per procedures currently inplace determinedby STN (Treasury Secretariat of the Finance
Ministry), all the resources required for the Project, includingthose for UNESCO will be
advanced by S T N through a budgetary Unit (UG- Unidade Gestora) to be established in
SIAF18.Once the annual federal budget i s approved, this UGwill receive their share o f the
federal annual budget and all payments and expenses will be charged inthis budgetary Unit.
As the Project implementationprocess goes on, the PCU will book all commitments
(empenhos) and payments (liquidaqties) and Bank's payment orders through SIAFI.
UNESCO will document all payments done from the advances received, through its own
system which will also be booked inSIAFI. Specifically inthe case o f this Grant, a special
account will be opened to receive a Grant advance to start the Project. The funds to be
transferred to UNESCO will be withdrawn fkom the special account. Periodically, after
payments are documented by UNESCO the PCU will issue SOEs and submit to the Bank for
replenishment of the Special Account.

Disbursements will be transaction based (SOE) to be issued on basis o f payments actually
made and recorded inSIAFI. A payment report (OB - Ordem Bancaria) will be periodically
(ex. Monthly or quarterly) extracted from SIAFI, classified by cost category and included in
a SOE which will then be submitted to the Bank. Payments madeby UNESCO will also be
included inthe SOE. To this purpose the PCUwill have access to UNESCO records to check
payments for the same period to include inthe FMR.The amounts disbursed will be
deposited directly inthe Special Account.


         WB GEF                                                      -goods
                                                                  '-works
                                                                     -services
                                                                     -advances to
                                                        Payments     UNESCO




* SistemaIntegrado de Administraqiio Financeira

                                                69

Flow o f funds:
       i. NationalTreasuryprovidesfundstothePCUfromtheSpecialAccountthrough
            SIAFI.
      ii. PCUmakespaymentsforgoods,works,servicesandadvancestoUNESCO
            through SIAFI, withdrawing funds from the Treasury's single Bank account.
     iii. PCUcollectsdataofpaymentsmadefromSIAFIandofpaymentsmadeby
            UNESCO, and prepares SOEs for submission to the Bank.
     iv.    After reviewing the SOEs, the Bank disburses Grant funds directly to the Special
            Account.

    8. Accounting Policies, Information System and Internal Controls:

Budgeting and financial execution will be done via SIAFI. Once the annual federal budget i s
approved by the Congress, the FinanciaYBudget Unit o f the Environment Ministry (MMA)
will record the approvedbudgetary resources inSIAFI for the Project inits specific UG. All
commitments (empenhos), liquidations (liquidaqaes) and payments must be done through
SIAFI.MMAuses a internally developed system - SIGMA to control, monitor, account and
prepare financial reporting for all its Projects. Besides all these functions, SIGMA i s able to
issue all requiredreports inFMR format. SIGMA i s also accessible via Web which facilitates
data input from the various Project's partners and participants.

    9. Reporting - FMRs:

The following quarterly FMRswill beissued directly from SIGMA for management and
reporting purposes:

    1. RSF 1- Source and application o f funds by cost category as per Grant Agreement,
    2. RSF 2 - Statement o f Investments by components and subcomponents,
    3. RSF 3 - Disbursements reconciliation with Bank's Client Connection site.

All the FMRswill be inlocal currency (R$), and expenditures figures will be statedby
quarter and accumulated for the Project. FMRs will be submitted to the Bank up to 45 days
after the closing o f each quarter. Year end FMRs could be used for external auditing
purposes.

    10. External audit/supervision:

External audit will be performed by SFC - Secretaria Federal de Controle Interno da
Controladoria-Geral da Uniiio, as part o ftheir regular yearly audit o f all Federal Projects.
At least one supervisionMissionwill be carriedout by the Bank each year.




                                                 70

                            Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
Brazil:IntegratedManagementof Aquatic Resourcesin the Amazon Region                - AquaBio

A.      General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
May 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general description of
various items under different expenditure category i s described below. For each contract to
be financed by the Loadcredit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection
methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time
frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Plan will beupdated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurementof Works: Works procuredunder this project, would include very small
works under Component 2 - Subprojects. All such contracts will be for less than US$lOO,OOO
and will be procured following shoppingprocedures.

Procurementof Goods: Goods estimatedto cost US$350,000 equivalent per contract or
more will be procured through International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures. Goods
andNon-consulting services estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent andless
than US$350,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of N C B procedures. At this stage, no ICB or N C B were identified. Goods procured
under this project would basically include vehicles, ICT equipment, and office furniture. The
procurement will be done usingshoppingprocedures. Other goods may be needed for the
sub-projects under Component 2 - Subprojects. All goods contracts will be for less than
US$lOO,OOO and will be procured following shopping procedures.

Procurementof non-consultingservices: These would basicallyinclude logistics for
training activities and workshops under Component 3 and other services that may be needed
for the sub-projects under Component 2. Printing services may also be needed for info
dissemination activities under Component 4 o f the project. All such contracts will be for less
than US$lOO,OOO and will be procured following shopping procedures.

CommunityParticipation:Certain goods and services requiredunder Sub-components 4.2
and 4.3 may be procured on the basis o f community participation, inaccordance with the
procedures set forth inthe Operational Manual.

Selectionof Consultants: Consultants services for the project would include: (i)    planning and
publicpolicy studies and activities under Component 1;(ii) services, mainly from
                                                             discrete
individual consultants, under Component 2; (iii) capacity buildingunder Component 3; and (iv)
management, M&E, and info dissemination under Component 4. Short lists o f consultants for
services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract maybe composed entirely
o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant

                                              71

Guidelines. According to the initial procurement plan, all consulting services could be selected
following CQS. Throughout project implementation, inaddition to CQS and individual
consultants, the project may also select and hire consultants on the basis o f QCBS, SFB, and
LCS.

Special Arrangements for Selection of Consultants: For the activities to be developed under
the components indicatedbelow, it i s expected that short lists will be comprised o f local NGOs,
Universities, private or public foundations, or other local CSOs. Because o f the nature o f the
services required, expertise, and the remoteness o f the areas where the services will be provided,
the Bank would exceptionally accept short lists o f less than six firms: usually three, but ina few
cases, there may only be two qualified firms available. Subject to the Bank's prior review, sole
sourcing may also be considered, ifjustified. National advertisement o f the respective contracts
i s not required.

     1. Subcomponent 3.I - Training. There may not be enough organizations with capacity to
     deliver specialized training inremote areas or to indigenous groups. Insome o f the more
     remote project areas we may have very few organizations with the right profile for the job,
     which includes havingknowledge o f the local culture and costumes.
     2. Subcomponent 3.2 -Environmental education. Same comments as above. To be effective,
     environmental education needs to be delivered insmall but frequent doses. It would not be
     cost-effective to bringconsultants from far away to deliver these kinds o f small, target
     training events.
     3. Subcomponent 3.3 - Institutional strengthening. We may not have enough institutions
     with capacity to compete to provide support to indigenous groups on improving the
     efficiency and hnctioning o f their organizations.

Operational Costs: Operational costs would be necessary under the project to finance per
diem and maintenance and operation costs. They would be procured using the implementing
agency's administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.


B.       Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

With the exception o fthe procurement relatedto sub-projects under Component 2, all other
procurement activities will be carried out by UNESCO under a technical cooperation
agreement with MMA.

An assessmentofthe capacity o fUNESCOto implement procurement actions for
FUNDESCOLA 3-A (which i s a Bank-project financed by Loan 7122-BR) was carried out
by Efraim Jimknez and Lucian0 Wuerzius on January 15 and 16,2004 and approved bythe
RPA on March2,2004.

Most o fthe issues/ risks concerning the procurement component for implementation o f the
project have been identified and include the (i) transition from usingUNESCO to using
MMA's own structure and (ii) capacityto coordinate procurement execution at the sub-
                                the
project level. The corrective measures which have been agreed are (i)    the Bank will assist
and MMA will implement a strong internal unitto carry out the procurement under all-Bank-
financed projects and (ii) Bank will train and the MMA will keep one sub-project
                           the

                                               72

coordinator who i s able to overview procurement execution under Component 2. The overall
project risk for procurement i s high.

By the time sub-component 2.1 sub-projects should begin, after 18 months o fproject
implementation, it i s expected that the PCU would have built enough capacity to support
these activities without the assistance from an external agency. The PCU would be assessed
and an action plan to improve its capacity would be agreed upon. The overall project risk
would be reviewed at that time.

C.      Procurement Plan

The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementationwhich
provides the basis for the procurement methods. The Recipient and the Project Team have
agreed on this plan, which would be available at the PCU. It would also be available inthe
Project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will beupdated
inagreement with the Project Team annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D.      Frequency of Procurement Suoervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervision to becarried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended annual supervisionmissions to
visit the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions. Fieldvisits to the agencies
implementing the project under Component 2 should also be carried out once a year.

The Procurement Plan will indicate those contracts which will be subject to prior review by
the Bank.




                                                73

Attachment 1

Details of the Procurement Arrangement involving internationalcompetition.

1. Goods and Works and nonconsulting services.

(a) There are no ICB packages under the project.

(b) All direct contractingwill be subject to prior review by the Bank, including direct
contracting under the sub-projects.


2. Consulting Services.

(a) There are no Consulting Assignments with short-list o f international firms.

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract, and all Single
Source selection o f consultants (firms), will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for
services estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, may be
composed entirely of national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                             74

                          Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon Region                  - AquaBio

Cost-effectiveness

The Project offers an excellent costbenefit ratio, as it addressesthe conservation o fhighly
significant biodiversity under threat, but at an early enough stage where relatively modest
investments inproject activities would actually be able to help avoid major, irreversible
damage inthe medium to long term, and also avoid extremely costly ecosystem restoration
activities in the future. The adoption o f co-management schemes, as a way to improve the
conservation status o f freshwater biodiversity inthe Amazon, has shown to be highly cost-
effective when compared to approaches that try to achieve the same results based only on
command and control initiatives. This i s particularly true inthe Brazilian Amazon, where
command and control activities are very costly due to the sheer size o f the area, the highly
dispersed population pattern, and the difficulties o f transportation and communication.

Inthe XinguRiver Sub-basin (State o fMato Grosso) the project wouldbeimplemented
usingmostly existing institutional capacity within FEMA,with support from EMPAER, the
State's rural extension agency. Inthe Negro and Tocantins River Basins (States o f
Amazonas and Para, respectively), where existing institutional capacity inthe Project target
areas i s not as strong as inMato Grosso, the Project has adopted a number o f measures that
improve its cost-effectiveness, such as the use o f the existing ProVarzea PCU for support to
the implementation o f some project activities - which would result in(i)      reduced costs; (ii)
better coordination and exchange o f experiences between activities already under
implementationalong the mainstem o fthe Solim6es/Amazon River and those to be
implemented under the AquaBio along some o f the tributaries; (iii)faster start-upo fproject
                                                                         a
implementation due to the strong capacity that already exists inthe unit, and leading to a
greater probability that project targets and results would be achieved within the proposed
timeframe. Inaddition, the future creation o f an IBAMA CEPNOR base inManaus,
combining the teams and experiences o f ProVhrzeaand AquaBio, would ensure the
sustainability o f both initiatives inthe medium and long-term.


Financial sustainability

Subcomponent 1.3 would develop and implement a financial sustainability strategy to
support the execution o f selected activities under the APs, beyond the life o f the project, with
pilot financial mechanisms adopted by the end o f the project. This would be achieved
through the following activities: (i)  initial identification o fpartners and stakeholders
followed by the establishment o f a common dialogue; (ii)       identification o f the outcomes and
activities to be continued following the closure o f the Project; (iii)  assessment o f the potential
of the activities identified in(ii) above to attract external resources and/or generate financial
returns to ensure their financial sustainability; (iv) identification and/or design o f viable
financial mechanisms/models to support financial sustainability (e.g., public investment
programs and funds, environmentally friendly certification schemes, trust funds, etc.); and



                                                75

(v) the development and implementation o f an action plan to make the relevant financial
mechanisms fully operational.

Inrelation to the localprojects andprograms to be supported under AquaBio, the project
would seek to develop a financial strategy including (i)   an overall financial sustainability
model that would address fundingo f national institutional coordination activities and (ii)
individual financial sustainability models for each o f the project's sites. These financial
sustainability models would take into account the respective (a) start-up costs; (b) recurrent
annual operating costs; (c) expected annual funding o f core outcomes and activities; and (d)
existing and potential sources o f funding resources. This would enable the determination o f
fundingrequirements and gaps, and facilitate the identification o fappropriate financing
mechanisms. The project would pursue collaborative and mutually supportive partnerships
with the following stakeholders: national, provincial and local government agencies;
bilateral/multilateral development agencies; and foundations. The project's financial strategy
would entail a two-pronged approach: (1) "revenue-stream generation" which aims at the
identification o f activities and/or products (e.g. organic and/or indigenous products,
handicrafts, ornamental fish) that generate income and thus create a self-sustaining economic
base, while at the same time protectingaquatic biodiversity and promoting the transition to
more sustainable livelihoods; and (2) identification o f sources o f public and private
resources, with the potential to channel funds to cover the recurring costs o f AquaBio
activities (those that do not generate an economic returnbut are essential to sustaining the
project's positive results);




                                               76

                Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues and Indigenous People's Strategy
  Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon Region                                 - AquaBio

  A) Safeguard Policv Issues

  This 6-year project would promote and support strategic actions for the mainstreamingo f
  a multi-stakeholder, integrated management approach to the conservation and sustainable
  use of freshwater biodiversity inpublic policies and programs inthe Brazilian Amazon
  River Basin. To achieve this objective, the Project would identify constraints to the
  resolution o f negativeenvironmental and social impacts o f currently adopted natural
  resource use and management practices, especially those which negatively affect aquatic
  biodiversity. The Project would then test and promote new tools and methodologies to
  support the adoption and implementationo f an integrated management approach. Project
  activities would take place within the context o f four components: (1) Planning and
  Public Policy; (2) Demonstration Activities; (3) BuildingCapacity; and (4)
  Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Information Dissemination.

  Theproject would adopt participatoryplanningmethodologies to develop Action
  Programs for integrated management o f aquatic resources (abbreviated as APs) and
  would test "demonstrative activities" inthe field that have the potential to become
  mediumand longterm public policies for the implementation o faction programs for
  integrated management. These demonstrative activities would consist o f innovative
  technologies and productive systems (new or adapted) that mainstream questions o f
  freshwater biodiversity inthe productive activities carried out inthe Amazon, utilizing
  concrete examples for the development o f the APs.


Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                     Yes                   N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                        [XI                   [I
NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                    [XI                   11
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       [XI                   [I
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                         [ 3                   [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (.OP/BP 4.12)                                          [I                    [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                           [XI                   [I
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            [XI                   [I
Safety o f Dams(OP/BP 4.37)                                                     [I                    [XI
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                      [I                    [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                             [I                    [XI

  Environmental Rating: B-Partial Assessment

  Project compliance with applicable safeguard policies


  * By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thejnal determination of theparties'
  claims on the disputed areas


                                                         77

EnvironmentalAssessment-The draft EA and EMP were submittedto the Bank on
October 10, 2005. The final E N E M P report was disseminated inBrazilthrough the
project's website (http://www.mma.~ov.br/port/sbf/chmlaquabio/aquabio.html).       The
document was also sent to the representatives o f government and non-government
organizations, civil society and indigenous organizations, and universities who
participated inthe various consultations duringproject preparation.

OverallEnvironmental Assessment The Project would generate positive environmental
                                      -
impacts through strengthening the capacity o f government institutions and civil society to
participateindecision-making that supports the sustainable use and conservation o f
freshwater biodiversity inthe Brazilian Amazon and, inthe medium and long term,
through fostering better management and control o f the threats that lead to degradation o f
the Region's aquatic resources.

The Project would facilitate the adoption o f strategic actions for the integrated
management o f aquatic biodiversity and water resources inthree tributaries o f the
Amazon River so as to mainstream the conservation and sustainable use o f aquatic
biodiversity inthe policies and programs o f sustainable development. Inaddition to the
states where the three tributaries are located (Amazonas, Mato Grosso and Para), the
other states o f the Legal Amazon and other countries which share the Amazon basinwith
Brazil would also benefit from lessons learned from the Project. At the local level,
AquaBio would provide opportunities for local participation inthe management o f
aquatic resources inorder to improve the quality of life and the economic wellbeing o f
the rural and riverine communities inthe three selected sub-basins. This would be
achieved by the creation and support o f discussions spaces, improved organization o f
fishermen, farmers and rural community, and improved awareness inthese communities
o f the importance o f the sustainable use o f aquatic resources. The latter would come
about as a result o f the Project's mobilization process and its foreseen investments and
trainings. Inaddition, with CONABIO as the Project National Steering Committee,
AquaBio would facilitate the integration o f aquatic biodiversity concerns into other
sectors o f the economy and the government.

Direct, positive impacts stemming from Project implementation would likely include: (i)
the resolution o f conflicts over the use o f fishery resources; (ii) sustainable
                                                                   better,
management o f aquatic resources, as a result o f the mainstreaming o f freshwater
biodiversity concerns into public policies and actions at the sub-basin and local level; (iii)
greater soil productivity in agricultural lands that presently suffer from erosion and cause
sedimentation o f aquatic ecosystems; (iv) improved livelihoods for families o f small local
fishermen and farmers, through better access to fisheries for food and income, and
increased citizenship; (iv) improved quality o f water resources and fisheries for
indigenous groups living inthe upper areas o f the P I X (Xingusub-basin), and better
access to fisheries and other sources o f income and nutrition for indigenous peoples along
the middle Negro River; and (v) the production o f environmental services associated with
riparian forest recovery, and conservationo f overexploited aquatic species such as
tambaqui,piramutaba, Jilhote andpirarucu. Inaddition, the project would generate



                                                78

benefits for the global environment through: (i)   strengthening o f the Government and
civil society to deal with threats and barriers to the conservation o f the Amazon's
globally important freshwater ecosystems; (ii)    greater scope and involvement o f civil
society and the private sector inthe planning and management o f the Amazon's aquatic
resources; and (iii)  development o f sustainable aquatic management systems and
generation and disseminationo f lessons that could be adapted towards the conservation
o f freshwater biodiversity inother parts and countries o f the Amazon basin.

Environmental Assessmentfor Component 2 - This component would finance, on a pilot
basis, demonstrative activities to test tools and methodologies, and to provide inputs for
the development o f action programs for the integrated management o f aquatic
biodiversity and water resources (APs). These activities would fit into two categories:
small (up to US$30,000) or medium-sized (up to US$70,000) sub-projects. The main
eligibility criteria for demonstrative activities would be to have a potential positive
impact on conservation and the sustainable use o f aquatic biodiversity inthe sub-
basinshegions o f interest o f the Project. Inthis way, all o f the activities financed by
Component 2 would have a positive environmental impact, especially inthose sub-
projects whose objectives are the management o f fishingand forest resources, soil and
water conservation, rehabilitation o f riparian forests, or the protection o f water resources,
for example.

Because o f the intrinsic positive environmental objectives o f the AquaBio project, and of
the small scale o f sub-projects to be supported on a pilot basis, it i s extremely unlikely
that sub-projects with potential negative environmental impacts would be proposed and
approved. However, a few o f the activities supported under Component 2 could have the
potential to cause limited and localizednegative environmental impacts ifthe related sub-
projects are poorly administered. To prevent such situations, strict environmental
evaluation and monitoringprocedures, including environmental licensing(ifneeded) and
mitigation measures, would be utilized. At this stage o f preparation, it i s not yet possible
to identify the exact impacts o f the sub-projects to be undertaken inthe demonstrative
areas o f the Project since the sub-projects would be defined based on the demands made
bythe communities and local partners duringthe first year o fproject implementation.

The Project would promote workshops to train interested parties inthe preparation o f
sub-project proposals. The elaboration o f the environmental evaluation would be one of
the topics to be addressed inthe workshops and would be anintegral part of all sub-
project proposals. The Project would also offer, as necessary, additional technical
assistanceto the proponents for the elaboration o f the environmental evaluation and
environmental management plan o fthe sub-projects.

Environmental Management Plan (EMP) - The project's EMP aims to monitor the
potential positive and negative environmental impacts as a whole, and inparticular those
of the sub-projects, inorder to achieve environmental sustainability after the project ends.
The EMP involves five broad lines o f action: (1) capacity buildingfor sub-project
proponents on the evaluation o fpotential environmental impacts o f sub-projects; (2)
established procedures for the elaboration, evaluation, and approval o f sub-projects; (3)



                                               79

agreed restrictions inthe case o f sub-projects located within or around environmentally
protected areas; (4) provision o f technical assistanceto sub-project proponents; and (5)
monitoring and evaluation.

A Standard Formhas beendeveloped for the evaluation ofthe potential environmental
impacts o f sub-projects. The use o f this Standard Form would be discussed inthe training
provided to sub-project proponents, and the completed Form would be an integral part o f
all sub-project proposals. Sub-projects would be classified as Category Ior I1according
to their potential negative environmental impacts. Category Isub-projects would have no
potential negative impacts, and would not require any mitigationmeasures. Category I1
sub-projects could have the possibility o f limitedand localized negative impacts, which
would be mitigated through specific actions described inthe sub-project proposal. Project
support for a Category I1sub-project would depend on its initial evaluation and approval
by the project's Local Project Committee, which would involve staff from the municipal
and state environmental agencies, and also on its final evaluation and approval by the
project's State Project Committee and o fthe PCU. The Terms o f Reference for the
project mid-term review would include an assessment o f the potential for positive or
negative cumulative environmental impacts incase specific demonstration activities
would be recommended for replication and scaling-up inthe context of the APs.

Natural Habitats Riparian areas and vegetation are considered to be legally protected
                    -
under Brazilian legislation (Federal Law 4771/65), as "areas under permanent
conservation" (APPs - areas depreservaqEo permanente). Inthose areas, the project
would basically support activities that generate positive environmental impacts,
contributing to the maintenance o f ecological functions as well as promoting the
rehabilitation o f degraded natural riparian forests.

Forests Inthe case o f sub-projects that might involve the adoption o f agro-forestry
         -
models, any proposed use of timber resources would need to have a management plan
approved by the respective environmental institution responsible for the management o f
such resources (IBAMA, IPAAM, SECTAM, SEMA).

Indigenous People's Strategy Indigenous populations are present in and/or nearby the
                                 -
Rio Negro and Xingu target sub-basin areas, but not inthe Tocantins sub-basin area. The
AquaBio i s primarily an environmental project that would involve local stakeholders,
including indigenous populations, primarily intraining and capacity-building activities
with the goal o fmore effective stakeholder participation inwater resource commissions
and committees that the project seeks to establish, as well as possibly in some selected
demonstration activities. It i s also expected that indigenous representatives would be
involved inthe project steering committee and sub-basin and Project target area advisory
groups (See Section C and Annex 10). The project would not generate negative impacts
on indigenous people. To the contrary, indigenous people are viewed as important
stakeholders that would benefit from involvement with project activities.

Pest Management     -  Inthe caseo fsub-projects that involve agricultural activities, the
project will adopt I P Mmeasures whenever possible. Nevertheless, on a few very specific



                                              80

situations, especially related to sub-projects involving the restoration o friparian
vegetation, the temporary use o f small amounts o fpesticides may be necessary, where
allowed by the National legislation. This local and temporary use o f pesticides may be
needed for the control o f leaf-cutter ants duringthe first two years o f seedling
establishment into severely degraded riparian areas, or for the control o f the invasive
grass Brachiaria inriparian areas under restoration, especially areas previously converted
to pastures. The project does not require a separate Pest Management Plan, given that
there are no significant pest management issues, and procurement o f substantial
quantities o f pesticides i s not envisaged.

Thehazards associated with the storage, handling, use and disposal ofpesticides would
be assessedon an individual basis for each sub-project, according to its particular
characteristics, and the sub-project EA/EMP would include measures (according to Law
7802/89) to reduce these hazards to a level that can be managed by the envisaged users o f
such products. Inaddition to the adoption o f IMP and compliance with the above law, the
use o f pesticides, whenever needed, should be limited to low toxicity products according
to Class IV o f Decree 98816/90, which i s equivalent to WHO Class "U" (unlikely to
present acute hazard innormal use) or, if appropriate "U" products are not available, use
o f Class I11products (slightly hazardous) may take place.

Stakeholder Involvement Key stakeholders associated with the Project may be
                              -
classified intwo groups: national and local stakeholders. The main national stakeholders
include: (i) federal and state government institutions, including the National Environment
Institute (IBAMA); (ii)   national and internationalNGOs; (iii)  national organizations from
various private sector stakeholders; and (iv) universities and other research institutions.
Themain local stakeholders include: (i) municipal government; (ii)
                                            local                             municipal
councils and other local associations; (iii) natural resource users, such as fishermen and
small rural producers, as well as their families and associations, large commercial
farming and ranching operations, and hydropower developers; (iii)     indigenous groups;
and (iv) local NGOs.

The involvement o f these actors duringDroiect preparationtook place at different times:
(i)thetimeofconsultationsduringthisproject's initialpreparationphase,whichaided
    at
inthe preparation o fthe project concept note; (ii) the preparationofthe overall
                                                     during
diagnostic o fthe three sub-basins, which provided inputs to the preparationo f this project
proposal; and (iii) duringvarious project preparation visits, meetings, and workshops.
Special mention should be made to (a) the workshop to define priorities and strategies for
the preparation o f the AquaBio Project - Brasilia, June 23 to 26,2004, (b) the 15th
Regular Meeting o f the Management Council for the Popular Plan for Sustainable
Development Downstream from the Tucurui Hydroelectric Plant (PPDS-JUS) -Belem,
August 10,2004, (c) the Meeting on the Headwaters ofthe Xingu River -Canarana,
October 24 to 27,2004, (d) the AquaBio Preparation Workshop -Brasilia, November 30
to December 1,2004, focused on the participatory preparation and agreement over the
project's logical framework, (e) public consultation on the AquaBio Project technical
proposal -Novo Airgo, Amazonas, December 5, 2004, (f)public consultation on the
AquaBio project proposal- Abaetetuba, Para, March 5-6, 2005, and (g) meeting o f the



                                               81

Director o f Biodiversity, Mr.Paul0 Kageyama, and the Project Coordinator with Mrs.
Rosalia Arteaga, Director General o f the ACTO, and members o fher staff, to present the
AquaBio and discuss possibilities for interactionduringthe remainder o fproject
preparation and project implementation. Indigenous groups were represented at various
events, but especially at the preparation workshop inBrasilia late in 2004. Various
meeting were also held with ANA representatives responsible for the preparation o f
another GEF project for the Amazon Basin (more details inSection C.2), where possible
points o f overlap and complementarity between both GEF projects were discussed, as
well as a mutual collaboration strategy.

Duringproiect implementationstakeholders would participateas follows: (i)        CONABIO
would act as the project's Steering Committee; (ii)    the Executing Unit for each Project
target area would be supported by experts who would help monitor and support project
execution, with the representation o f government institutions and civil society
organizations, where the respective POAs would be presented and discussed together
with evaluations o fthe project's progress and the results of regional interventions; (iii)
partnerships would be established with universities, research institutions, and NGOs for
the execution o fproject activities at the local level and for project monitoring. The
participation o f local stakeholders and beneficiaries would include: (i) involvement inthe
planning, implementation, and monitoring o f demonstration activities; (ii)   inclusion, in
the project's annual planning, o f their demands for training insustainable management o f
natural resources; and (iii) active participation inenvironmental education and training
programs for integrated management o f aquatic resources.

The project preparation team maintains records o f all the events mentioned and o f
correspondence between the coordinators o f the above-mentioned projects and potential
partners. Duringproject implementationthere would be ongoing participation by the
actors involved and society in general, through seminars and workshops. Project
documents are available on the project's website (www.mma.gov.br/aquabio).


B) Indigenous People's Strategy for the AquaBio Proiect

Introduction and Background

The project development objective i s to support the mainstreaming o f a multistakeholder,
integrated management approach to the conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater
biodiversity inpublic policies and programs inthe Brazilian Amazon River Basin. The
project objectives would be achieved by supporting the implementation o f this integrated
management approach initially inthree pilot sub-basins located inthe: (i)     the Middle and
Lower Rio Negro inthe state of Amazonas; (ii)      the Rio Xingu inthe state o f Mato
Grosso, and (iii)  the Rio Tocantins inthe state o f Tocantins..

The project i s primarily an environmental project that would involve local stakeholders,
including indigenous populations, primarily intraining and capacity-building activities
with the goal o fmore effective stakeholder participation inaquatic resource commissions



                                               82

and committees that the project seeks to establish, as well as possibly insome selected
demonstration activities. It i s also expected that indigenous representatives would be
involved inthe project steering and advisory committees for the planning and policy
level, as well as beinginvolved inmonitoring and evaluation activities. Indigenous
populations are present inand/or nearby the Rio Negro and Xingu target sub-basin areas,
but not inthe Tocantins sub-basin area.

The project would not generate negative impacts on indigenous people. To the contrary,
indigenous people are viewed as important stakeholders that would benefit from
involvement with project activities.

The preparationo f the project included numerous consultations with indigenous people in
the Middle and Lower Rio Negro sub-basin and the Xingu sub-basin target areas, and as
i s detailed below, indigenous people expressed a range o f concerns about threats to their
aquatic and water resources, and ingeneral expressed interest inthe project as well as
interest inparticipating inthe project. Because this i s a process project, not all
arrangements are knownup front, nonetheless this annex clarifies the strategy that the
project will follow to involve and work effectively with indigenous people.

Indigenous People in the Middle and Lower Rio Negro Sub-Basin TargetArea

Scholars have concluded that most o f the indigenous peoples living inthe middle and
lower Rio Negro inthe state o f Amazonas migrated from the upper Rio Negro duringthe
1gthand 20thcenturies. Furthermore, the indigenous communities inthe middleand
lower Rio Negro maintain strong ties to the upper Rio Negro indigenous groups and
organizations, particularly to the Federation o f Indigenous Organizations of the Rio
Negro, FOIRN.

There are 24 riverine indigenous communities located within the target area o f Rio Negro
sub-basin pilot. The communities are scattered along the Rio Negro and various
tributaries. Most villages are comprised o fmixed ethnicities with populations o f 100
people or less. The total population o f the 24 communities i s estimated at 1300persons.
Ethnicities include predominantly the Bark, Baniwa and Tukano, as well as Arapaso,
PirA-Tapuia, Tariana, Macuxi, Dessana, Curipako, Tuiuku, Maku-Nadeb, and Kuruaia.
All speak Portuguese and some also are fluent inindigenouslanguages as well.

These communities mainly practice subsistence swidden agriculture, some small-scale
animal husbandry (chickens and pigs) and fishing (inthe river, lakes and streams). There
is also occasional hunting, and collecting o fnontimber forest products such as Brazil nuts
and thatch (from the piassaba palm). The principal crop i s manioc and other products
grown include sweet potatoes and fruits such as pineapples, bananas, cashew and
cupuagu. Most communities engage in extractive activities to earn income with Brazil
nutcollectingbeingmorecommononthe southern side ofthe river (though decreasing
due to declining prices) and thatch collection (used mainly for brooms) on the northern
side o f the river. Some families also earn income from the sale o fmanioc flour, small




                                              83

amounts o f fish, bananas and other fruits, and a few also catch and sell ornamental fish.
Alternative income generation i s a major concern for these communities.

Land Tenure. To date, none o f the 24 indigenous communities inthe Rio Negro target
area have fully regularized lands. However, the BrazilianNational Indian Foundation
(FUNAI)has begunland regularization activities for six indigenous lands that would
encompass the majority o f these indigenous communities and which i s being supported
by the Pilot Program's Indigenous Lands Project (PPTAL).9 For the lower Rio Negro,
FUNAIhas already receivedthe first studyneeded for identification of indigenous groups
(Romcy, 2003).

There are two major challenges that indigenous communities o f the middle and lower Rio
Negro face. The first relates to a strugglethat began inthe 1970s inwhich the
communities beganto reassert their indigenous identities and try to confront regional and
local racial prejudices against indigenous people. The second pertains to the adverse
impacts o f increasing commercialization and sometimes over-exploitation o f the natural
resources upon which they depend, such as fish and other extracted products.

Inthe 1990s, two indigenous associations were established, the Association ofthe
Indigenous Communities o f the Middle Rio Negro (ACIMRN) which represents 21
riverine communities, and the Indigenous Association o f Barcelos (ASIBA), both o f
which are affiliated with the larger Federation o f Indigenous Organizations o f the Rio
Negro, FOIRN.

Indigenous People in the Rio Xingu Sub-Basin TargetArea

Inthe stateofMato Grosso, there aretwo groups ofindigenouspeoplepertinentto the
Rio Xingu Sub-Basin target pilot area, the Xinguanos, a generic term used to refer to the
14 ethnic groups inside the Xingu Indigenous Park (PIX)" that i s largely outside the sub-
basin target area, and the Xavante who live inthe Indigenous Land Pimental Barbosa and
part o f the Indigenous Land Are6es located inside the sub-basin target area.

Land Tenure. The Xingu Indigenous Park encompasses 2.8 million hectares, and was
fully regularizedas an Indigenous Land in 1961. Also inside the project sub-basin target
area are the Indigenous Land Pimental Barbosa encompassing 329,000 hectares which
was fully regularized in 1986 and part o f the Indigenous Land Areoes encompassing
219,000 hectares which was fully regularized in 1996.


9           Although the Bank financed portion o f the PPTAL will close inDecember 2005, the German
bilateral financing o f PPTAL, with approximately US5 million remaining funds, will continue for at least
through 2008 and possibly longer. FUNAI i s also already closely coordinating with other World Bank
GEF and Pilot Program Projects that provide direct and indirect support for socioeconomic diagnostics,
training and capacity building, landregularization activities, protection activities, economic and alternative
livelihood subprojects for indigenous peoples, including among others, from the GEF Amazon Protected
Area Project (ARPA), the Pilot Program's Indigenous DemonstrationProject (PDPI).
I O        The terms park and reserve used to bemore common inBrazilto refer to indigenous lands. Inthe
last few decades the term indigenous land i s preferred. However, the Indigenous Land Parque do Xingu i s
still commonly referred to as the Xingu Indigenous Park.


                                                      84

The Xingu Indigenous Park (PIX) has a population o f approximately 4,700 people in49
villages o f the following 14 ethnicities: Aweti, Kalapalo, Kamaiura, Kuikuro, Matipu,
Mehinaku, Nahukwa, Trumai, Waura ,Yawalapiti, Ikpeng Kaiabi, Suia and Yudja. For
the most part (except not to the same extent for the IkpengKaiabi, Suia and Yudja who
are relative newcomers to the PIX), the ethnic groups inthe PIX have intermarried and
intermingled to the point where they are now considered Xinguanos and share numerous
cultural traits. Livelihood activities are primarily fishing (both by individual and by
groups usingmethods such as timb6) and subsistence swiddenagriculture focusing on
manioc and including corn, squash, melons and papaya for consumption, urucum for dye,
tobacco, and gourds and cotton for crafts. Huntingbirds and small animals as well as the
collection o f other forest products (such as honey, wild fruits, ants, turtle eggs and
firewood) are also important though secondary. Handicrafts, such as ceramics, baskets
and beadjewelry, provides some cash income.

The Association for the Xingu IndigenousLand (ATIX) was established in 1994with an
objective o f representing the interests all the ethnic groups inthe PIX. ATIX continues to
receive significant technical assistance and supportfrom several NGOs, including the
Socio-environmental Institute (ISA) which has a long-term multifaceted sustainable
development and protectionprogram with ATIX. ATIX i s dominatedby younger leaders
and hence sometimes has friction with the older more traditional leaders. Hence, for the
project to effectively work with stakeholders inPIX, it must strive to work with both
types o f Xinguano leaders. More recently, another indigenous association for the PIX
was formed, which i s the Xingu Ethno-environmental Research Institute(IPEAX). The
majority o f Xinguanos also speak Portuguese.

The Xavante indigenous people have inhabited the transitional regions betweenthe
forests and the semi-arid areas ineastern Mato Grosso since the mid-1800s, and the
population inthe state, estimated at about 9,700, i s locatedprimarily along the following
rivers: Mortes, Culuene, Couto de Magalhiies, Botovi, and Gargas. Duringthe 19th
century they fled further inland Erom contact with non-Indians However, by the 1940s the
expansion o f the frontier put them into contact once again. Inthe 1970s FUNAIhelped
introduce a large-scale mechanized rice project that caused considerable environmental
degradation and nutritional problems due to diet change, and which ultimately failed and
was abandoned due to low prices, among other factors. The Xavante population inside
the sub-basin target area o fthe Xingu headwaters inIndigenous Lands Pimental Barbosa
and Indigenous Lands Areties is estimated at about 1400. Their livelihood activities have
longbeen characterized predominantly by hunting,fishing and collecting.

The Xavante have been known inthe past decades for their political activism primarily
lobbying to have more o f their traditional territory recognized. They form associations
normally representing one village at a time, A challenge for the project will be that in
order to work effectively with the Xavante, it i s advisable to work with village-level
leaders, and given their clan structure, it is advisable that two representatives always be
included from each village. Especially given the environmental degradation the Xavante




                                               85

have experienced, it i s likely that they will be increasingly interested inthe challenges o f
sustainable management o f fishing resources.

Legal Issues

The Brazilian Constitution o f 1988 marked a departure point fi-om previous integrationist
policies and provides a firm basis for the recognitionby the nation-state o f the perpetual
usufruct rights of indigenous people inBrazil to lands they traditionally occupy. The
Constitutional mandate also protects the indigenous customs and traditions as well as
their exclusive rightsto use terrestrial and aquatic natural resources intheir traditional
areas. Indigenouslands inBrazil, whether demarcated or not, pertain to the nation-state.

Even though indigenous lands were not explicitly included in the recent Brazilian
conservation unit legislation (SNUC), the Constitutional mandate pertains inthat the
nation-state has the obligation to protect natural resources inindigenous lands. The
nation-state also has responsibility for preserving indigenous culture and for providing
access to culturally appropriate educational services.

Indigenous Participation in the Project

Participationduringpreparation. During2004 there were seven consultations with
civil society that included indigenous representatives inBrasilia and various locations in
Amazonas and Mato Grosso, and in2005 there was a public consultation inMato Grosso
that also included indigenous organizations, and a meeting held with representatives o f
ASIBA inManaus. Indigenouscommunity members and leaders participatedinthese
events as did indigenous associations and organizations including, among others, the
Association o fthe Xingu Indigenous Land (ATIX); Xingu Ethno-environmental
Research Institute (IPEAX); Indigenous Association o f Barcelos (ASIBA), Federationo f
Indigenous Organizations o f the Rio Negro (FOIRN); and the Coordination o f
Amazonian Indigenous Organizations (COIAB). Also participating were
nongovernmentalorganizations such as the Native Amazonia Operation (OPAN) and the
Missionary Indigenous Counsel (CIMI), as well as governmental agencies such as the
National Indian Foundation(FUNAI), the Mato Grosso Office on Indigenous Subjects,
and the Amazonas State Foundation on Indigenous Policies (FEPI).

IndigenousConcerns. Ingeneral, indigenousrepresentatives expressed numerous
concerns with threats to water and aquatic resources, particularly highlightingthe impacts
o f over-exploitation and contamination on the health and quality o f life o f their
communities. Inthe middleand lower Rio Negro, major concerns focused mostly on
negative effects o f increasing commercial use o f aquatic resources (commercial fishing,
ornamental fish collection, sport fishing) on local indigenous communities. ASIBA
expressed great interest inreceiving training inmonitoring the impact o f commercial
fishing. Inthe Rio Xingu area, indigenous representatives from the Xingu Park were
greatly concerned about the adverse environmental and health effects o f human activities
intheheadwaters region, which then affect the Park. Insummation, the indigenous
peoples consulted duringproject preparation agreed that the project addresses concerns



                                               86

that they share and consider important. They were also positive about becoming more
active stakeholders inefforts to more sustainably manage freshwater biodiversity.

Indigenous Participation inthe Project. Duringconsultations, there was consensus
that for the Rio Negro and Xingu sub-basin pilots, that all riverine indigenous
communities within the project target areas would be eligible for all project activities (in
the case o f PIX, only those indigenous lands and organizations included inthe project
target area o f the Xingu sub-basin), . The Xinguanos have already expressed strong
interest inparticipating actively inthe monitoring and evaluation o fproject impacts on
freshwater biodiversity.

With respect to Component 1, Planning and Public Policy, it is expected that indigenous
people would be involved inboth Sub-component 1, Sub-Basin Action Programs, as one
set o f stakeholders involved inthe development o f sub-basin action programs (APs)
which are expected to be a result inPY5 o f the multi-stakeholder dialogue promotedby
the project, and Sub-component 1.2, Institutional arrangements for integrated
management o f aquatic resources, which would support discussions and participation
needed to determine the institutional and partnership arrangements for development and
some initial implementation o f the APs. Types o f activities under this component would
include, among others, support for travel and participation inproject related events, such
as seminars, conflict resolution round-tables, and other project related discussion fora as
well as local-level steering and sub-basin committees to be formed.

The project component where the most indigenous involvement i s expected i s
Component 3, BuildingCapacity. The goal o f this component i s to help prepare
stakeholders, especially local ones (including indigenous people, indigenous communities
and indigenous organizations), to be able to actively participate and contribute more
effectively (including traditional knowledge and environmental perspectives) inthe
formulation, implementation, and monitoring o f strategies and action programs aimed at
the conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater biodiversity and water resources inthe
project areas. Activities include, among others, support for training (such as on
indigenous and environmental legislation, and conflict resolution techniques), a variety o f
capacity buildingactivities (such as on sustainable fisheries, and co-management
approaches), environmental education and the formation o f partnerships. Under this
component, indigenous people, communities and organizations would be eligible for a
variety o f capacity buildingand educational activities as well as assistance to indigenous
organizations such as targeted trainings and technical assistance. The underlying
objective i s to empower local actors, including indigenous peoples, by leveling the
playing field interms o f improving: access to information (environmental, ecological,
political and other types via trainings, environmental education and other means); ability
to exercise citizenship rights as well as duties; and strengthening local organizations,
including indigenous associations, interms o f preparation and support for more active
participationinpublic debate and inthe to be established sub-basin advisory councils and
other fora.




                                              87

  To ensure that indigenous people are appropriately involved in capacity building, the
  project will undertake further detailed diagnostics o f local communities on the ground,
  collaborate with both governmental entities (such as FUNAI) and experienced
  nongovernmental indigenist organizations, such as ISA and others, and with indigenous
  organizations such as the indigenous associations mentioned, as well as traditional
  leaders. Attention will bepaid to questions such as iftrainings should be designed
  exclusively for indigenous people or mixed audiences, the appropriate language (likely to
 be Portuguese unless specifically targeting subgroups without the necessary Portuguese
  skills) and level of didactic material, and other considerations to ensure a level playing
  field.

  Indigenous people could also participate inComponent 2, DemonstrationActivities
  within the sub-basin target areas". Component 2 will support a small and limited
 number o f demonstration activities (estimated at 20-30 subprojects) to test new
  technologies or productive systems that incorporate freshwater biodiversity concerns into
  productive activities inall three sub-basic pilot areas. Possible activities could include,
  among others, (i)     co-management o f aquatic resources associated with the resolution o f
  conflicts over access to and sustainable use o f fisheries resources, (ii)            management and
  sustainable use of ornamental fisheries resources; (iii)          economic activities that offer
  alternatives to predatory or degrading activities (see Annex 4 for more details).
  Technical assistance would be provided for the development and implementationo f
  demonstration activities. It should be clarified that this project i s not an income
  generation project and the funding for pilot activities i s quite limited. It i s expected that
  successful demonstration activities could be scaled up by leveraging other resources and
 possibly a subsequent phase of the project. Selection criteria for demonstration activities
 -tobefurtherdevelopedundertheproject                  - would include the key criterion o fthe
 potential impact o f the activity on conservation o f aquatic resources as well as other
  factors such as diversity o f technologies and methodologies to be used, available
 counterpart, and other factors that will be further detailed inthe project operational
 manual.

  Itis also expected that indigenouspeoplewill participate inComponent 4, Project
 Management, Monitoringand Evaluation, and Information Disseminationvia
 representation on the project's Steering committee as well as on the State Project
  Committees and Local Project Committees. Discussions about Xinguano participation in
 the monitoring the impact o fproject activities on freshwater biodiversity within the PIX
 are under way.




              ~



  11        Additional demonstration activities to be supportedunder re-directed baseline from other
 affiliated projects, such as the Ecological Corridors Project, would probably involve indigenous peoples

Isince the Ecological Corridors Project will support pilot activities ininterstitial areas o f the corridor, that is
 outside o f indigenous areas and o f conservation units,but may include indigenous communities that seek
 regularization of their areas as indigenous lands.


                                                       88

Institutiona1Arrangements

Duringproject implementation, indigenous stakeholders would berepresented on the
Project Steering Committee (CONABIO), and would also participate, where relevant, in
the State Project Committees and inthe Local Project Committees (see Section C and
Annex 6). It i s also expected that the project would establish working partnerships with
governmental, academic, indigenist and indigenous organizations as well as other civil
society organizations. Since this is a process project, not all implementation
arrangements can be detailed inadvance, nonetheless the project i s committed to working
with indigenouspeople as one set o fkey stakeholders inthe multistakeholder integrated
management approach to the conservation and sustainable use o f freshwater biodiversity.
MMAwould also sign anagreement with FUNAIto facilitate collaborationonproject
activities.

Monitoring and Evaluation.

The monitoring and evaluation system o f the project will be developed ininitial
participatory seminars including local stakeholders and indigenous people to be held
duringthe first year o fthe project. It is anticipated that the institutional arrangements for
M&E will include federal and state governmental agencies, NGOs and local associations,
including indigenous associations. Social indicators will be developed, including those
specifically focused on the effectiveness of activities involving indigenous peoples, and
indigenous people inthe PIX have already indicated their interest to carrying out
monitoring activities on water quality.


Bibliography

Romcy, R. N. 2003: Relat6rio do Levantamento Preliminar das Comunidades Indigenas
  do Baixo Rio Negro sobre a reivindicaqiio das Areas Indigenas Denominadas Rio
  Cuieras e Baixo Rio Negro (AM) - Instruqiio Executiva No. 94/DAF/02 de
  07/08/2002. Funai, Brasilia.




                                               89

                       Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon Region           - AquaBio

                                                 Planned                    Actual
P C N review                                                             11/15/1999
Initial PID to PIC                                                       10/27/2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                      10/27/2005
Appraisa1                                       11/07/2005               11/07/2005
Negotiations                                    12/05/2005               04/27/2006
Board/RVP approval                              01/31/2006               06/13/2006
Planned date o f effectiveness                  09/01/2006
Planneddate o f mid-term review                 09/01/2009
Planned closing date                            08/31/2012

K e y institutions responsible for preparation o f the project:
International Bankfor Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), Ministry of
Environment (MMA)

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

           Name            -
                           Title                                                          Unit
 Maria IsabelJ. Braga      Task Team Leader, Senior Environmental Specialist            LCSEN
 Judith Lisansky           Senior Anthropologist                                        LCSEO
 Graciela Lituma           Senior Rural Development Specialist                          LCSER
 Lucian0 Wuerzius          Procurement Analyst                                          LCOPR
 Mariana M.Montiel         Senior Counsel                                               LEGLA
 Claudio Mittelstaedt      FinancialManagement Specialist                               LCOAA
 Dana Frye                 Junior Professional Associate                                LCSER
 Janice Molina             Language Program Assistant                                   LCSER
 KarenRavenelle-Smith      Language Program Assistant                                   LCSER
 Adriana Moreira           Senior Biodiversity Specialist, Peer Reviewer                LCSEN
 Ricardo Tarifa            Forestry Specialist, Peer Reviewer                           LCSRF
 KarinKemper               LeadWater Resources Management Specialist, Peer Reviewer     SASES
 Robert Schneider          Lead SustainableDevelopment Economist                        LCSES
 Christiane Kunze          Environmental Specialist, Consultant
 LouAnn Dietz              Environmental Education Specialist, Consultant
 KhtiaMedeiros             FA0 Senior Environmental Specialist
 RandomDubois              FAO, Senior. Environmental Adviser
 Francisco Guimarges       FAO/CP, Rural Economist, Consultant

Total Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. US$245,000 (GEFresources)

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    2. Remaining costs to approval: '$15,000
     3. Estimated annual supervision cost: $70,000



                                               90

                          Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon Region             - AquaBio


Documents available for public consultation inthe Project archives at MMA or on the Project
website (http://www.mma.gov.br/aquabio):

           Project Concept Note, PDF-B Project Proposal, AquaBio GEF Project Brief, and
           GEF Project Document;
           Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan;
           Indigenous People Strategy;
           Agreement on MMA/UNESCO technical cooperation for implementation o f PDF-
           B activities;
           AquaBio PDF-B Progress Reports;
           Document on the "Criteria for Selection o f Project Sub-basins";
           TORSfor consultants hired for project preparation;
           Report on Environmental Diagnostics o f the Rio Negro sub-basin;
           Report on Socioeconomic Diagnostics o f the Rio Negro sub-basin;
           Report on Environmental Diagnostics o f the Rio Xingu sub-basin;
           Report on Socioeconomic Diagnostics o f the Rio Xingu sub-basin;
           Report on Institutional Organization and Capacity;
           Report on the proposal for the Project Training and Information Dissemination
           Strategy;
           Report on a proposal for the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Component;
           Minuteso fthe FirstOrdinary Meeting o fthe AquaBio Steering Committee;
           Minutes on the meetingbetween AquaBio/SBF and representatives from the
           Environmental Institutions (OEMAs) o f Amazonian States;
           Reports on field visits by Project consultants and MMA staff members;
           Report on the current status o f Fisheries Resources inthe Brazilian Amazon;
           Report o f the Public Consultation that took place inNovo Airgo, AM;
           Report o f the meeting on the status o f the headwaters o f the Xingu River,
           Canarana, MT.
           Meeting on the Xingu headwaters, part o f an awareness raising campaignby ISA
           (website o f Instituto Socioambiental).




                                             91

                                         Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
          Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resourcesin the Amazon Region                            - AquaBio

                                                                                                               Differencebetween
                                                                                                               expected and actual
                                                           Original Amount inUS$Millions                          disbursements

Project LD FY   Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb.   Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
PO82328    2005 BR-Integ.Munic.Proj.-BetimMunicipality   24.07       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   24.08      1.55       0.00
PO76924    2005 BR-(Amapa) Sustainable Communities        4.80       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    4.80     0.00        0.oo
PO83533    2005 BR TA-Sustain. & Equit Growth            12.12       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   12.12     0.00        0.00
PO877I1    2005 BR Espirito Santo Wtr & Coastal Pollu    36.00       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   36.00     0.90        0.00
PO69934    2005 BR-PERNAMBUCO INTEGDEVT:                 3 1.50      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   31.50      1.18       0.00
                EDUC QUAL IMPR
PO60573    2004 BR Tocantins Sustainable RegionalDev     60.00       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   59.40     7.40        0.00
PO87713    2004 BR ( C U I ) Bolsa Familia 1st APL     572.20        0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00  572.20     0.00        0.00
PO83013    2004 BR Disease Surveillance &Control APL   100.00        0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   99.00     -0.50       0.00
                2
PO80830    2004 BR Maranhao Integrated: Rural Dev        30.00       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   30.00      2.30       0.00
PO541I9    2003 BR BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )                  30.00       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   28.02      7.02       0.00
PO70827    2003 BR-2ndAPL BAHIA DEV.                     60.00       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   40.99    21.17        0.00
                EDUCATIONPROJECT
PO49265    2003 BR-RECIFE URBAN UPGRADING                46.00       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   44.99      6.90       0.00
                PROJECT
PO58503    2003 GEF BR Amazon RegionProt Areas            0.00       0.00     0.00     30.00   0.00   26.3 1     0.00       0.00
                (ARPA)
PO80400    2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control 3                 100.00       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   91.85    20.15        0.00
PO76977    2003 BR-Energy Sector TA Project              12.12       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   12.00      4.20       0.00
PO74777    2003 BR-Municipal PensionReformTAL             5.00       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    4.90      4.50        0.00
PO51696    2002 BR SA0 PAUL0 METRO LINE4               209.00        0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   163.48   130.58       0.00
                PROJECT
PO57653    2002 BR- FUNDESCOLA IIIA                    160.00        0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   192.62   -48.68        0.00
PO57665    2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTHEXTENSION                68.00       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   50.81     39.61        0.00
                PROJECT
PO55954    2002 BR G o I A S STATE HIGHWAY               65.00       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   30.14     30.14        0.00
                MANAGEMENT
PO60221    2002 BR FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN                85.00       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   111.47    59.02        0.00
                TRANSPORTPROJ
PO74085    2002 BR Sergipe Rural PovertyReduction       20.80        0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    3.13     -1.52        0.00
PO43869    2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL                62.80       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   59.72     19.74        0.00
                RESOURC & POV.
PO73192    2002 BR TA Financial Sector                   14.50       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     9.30     6.98        0.00
PO70552    2002 GEF BR PARAh'A BIODIVERSITY              0.00        0.00     0.00      8.00   0.00    8.22      6.12        0.00
                PROJECT
PO66170    2002 BR-RGN2ND Rural PovertyReduction        22.50        0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    12.99     6.39        0.00
PO73294    2001 BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL                8.8s       0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    6.74      5.7s        0.00
PO59566    2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION               90.00        0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   67.34    -22.66        0.00
PO50772    2001 BR LAND-BASED POVRTY                   202.10        0.00     0.00      0.00  58.13   165.13   152.74        0.00
                ALLEVIATION I (SIM)
PO50875    2001 BR Ceara RuralPoverty Reduction         37.50        0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     6.76     2.26        0.00
                Project
PO50880    2001 BR Pemambuco RuralPovertyReduction      30.10        0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    12.87     9.67        0.00




                                                                 92

PO50881   2001   BR PIAUl RURAL POVERTY                   22.50    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00       7.61     6.61        0.00
                 REDUCTIONPROJECT
PO57649   2001   BR Bahia RuralPoverty Reduction          54.35    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00       3.82    -2.01        0.00
                 Project
PO47309   2000   BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                0.00    0.00     0.00     15.00    3.29       8.12     9.82        6.79
PO39199   2000   BR PROSANEAR 2                           30.30    0.00     0.00     0.00     6.40      22.29    28.69      22.29
PO06449   2000   BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRH             136.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      60.71    43.46        0.45
                 S I M
PO50776   2000   BR NE Microfinance Development           50.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      30.08   -19.92        0.00
PO35741   2000   BR NATL ENV 2                            15.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     2.32       5.61     7.93        2.89
PO48869   1999   BR SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                150.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    32.00      53.95    85.95        0.00
PO50763   1999   BR- Fundescola2                        202.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      17.29    17.29        0.00
PO35728   1998   BR BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                   5 1.oo    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       1.39     1.39       -1.61
PO57910   1998   BR PENSION REFORMLIL                      5.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.50       I.48     1.98        1.48
PO42565   1998   BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                     60.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       8.07     8.07        0.00
PO43420   1998   BR WATER S.MOD.2                       150.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    125.00     19.33   144.30        4.28
PO43421   1998   BR RJM.TRANSIT PRJ.                    186.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     27.78     89.71   117.49        0.00
PO06474    1998  BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)                55.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    10.00     34.73    44.73       21.04
PO38895    1998  BR FED.WTR MGT                         198.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    40.00     54.95    94.95       3 1.45
PO06532    1997  BR FED HWY DECENTR                     300.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    50.00     61.51    111.51     111.51
PO34578    1997  BR RGS Highway MGT                       70.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     27.80    27.80       27.80
PO43873    1997  BRAG TECH DEV.                           60.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     15.24     15.24       15.24
PO43868    1997  BR RGS LAND MGTIPOVERTY                 100.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      7.69      7.69       7.69
PO06210    1996  GEF BR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY                 0.00     0.00    0.00     10.00     0.00      2.64      2.59        1.50
PO37828    1996  BR (PR)R.POVERTY                        175.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    10.00     36.99     46.99       46.99
                                                 Total: 4,270.14    0.00    0.00     63.00   365.42  2,589.89  1,275.49     299.79




                                                               BRAZIL
                                                    STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                                    InMillions of USDollars


                                                              Committed                              Disbursed
                                                            IFC                                    IFC

      FY Approval    Company                    Loan       Equity   Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Equity    Quasi     Partic.
      2001           AG Concession              0.00        15.00     15.00     0.00      0.00     14.07      0.00      0.00
      2002/05        Amaggi                     30.00         0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2002           Andrade G. SA              27.50         0.00    10.00    16.67     27.50      0.00      10.00    16.67
  .   2001           Apolo                      7.61          0.00    0.00      0.00      5.11      0.00      0.00      0.00
      1998           Arteb                      20.00         7.00    0.00     18.33     20.00      7.00      0.00     18.33
      I999           AutoBAn                    22.73         0.00    0.00     17.25     22.73      0.00      0.00     17.25
      1998           BSC                        1.54          0.00    0.00      0.66      1.46      0.00      0.00      0.66
      1996           Banco Bradesco             1.19          0.00     0.00     1.75      1.19      0.00      0.00      1.75
      2001           BrazilCGFund               0.00        20.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      1.60      0.00      0 00
      1994196        CHAPECO                    1.78          0.00    0.00      5.26      1.78      0.00      0.00      5.26
      2002104        CN Odebrecht               25.00         0.00     0.00     0.00     25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
      2003           CPFL Energia               0.00          0.00   40.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     40.00      0.00

1992        CRP-Caderi          0.00     0.32     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.32    0.00   0.00
1996197     CTBC Telecom        0.00      8.17    0.00  0.00    0.00   8.17    0.00   0.00
2004        Comgas              45.00    0.00     0.00  45.00  12 50   0.00    0.00   12.50
1997100     Coteminas           0.00     0.29     0.00  0.00    0.00   0.29    0.00   0.00
1980192     DENPASA             0.00     0.12     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12    0.00   0.00
1998        Dixie Toga          0.00     15.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   15.00   0.00    0.00
1997        Duratex             6.76     0.00     0.00   3.95   6.76   0.00    0.00    3.95
1999        Eliane              21.33     0.00   13.00   0.00  21.33   0.00    13.00   0.00
I998        Empesca             5.00     0.00    10.00   0.00   5.00   0.00    10.00   0.00
2001102     Escola              0.00     0.25     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00    0.00
2000104     Fleury              20.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
I998        Fosfertil           5.30     0.00     0.00  21.36   5.30   0.00    0.00   21.36
I998        Fras-le             6.00     0.00    10.00   0.00   6.00   0.00    6.70    0.00
I994        GAVEA               0.94     0.00     5.50   0.00   0.94   0.00    5.50    0.00
            GP Cptl Rstrctd     0.00      8.70    0.00   0.00   0.00   8.62    0.00    0.00
2001        GPC                 9.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   9.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1997        Guilman-Amorim      21.88     0.00    0.00  33.53  21.88   0.00    0.00   33.53
1998        lcatu Equity        0.00     14.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   12.61   0.00    0.00
1999        lnnova SA           13.75     5.00    0.00  35.00  13.75    5.00   0.00   35.00
I980187197  Ipiranga            23.62     0.00    0.00  39.75  23.62   0.00    0.00   39.75
1999        Itaberaba           0.00      5.34    0.00   0.00   0.00    5.34    0.00   0.00
2000102     Itau-BBA            103.63    0.00    0.00   0.00  64.08    0.00   0.00    0.00
1999        JOSAPAR             7.57      0.00    7.00   0.00   2.57    0.00    7.00   0.00
1995        Lojas Americana     2.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   2.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1992199     MBR                 12.50     0.00    0.00   0.00  12.50    0.00    0.00   0.00
2002        Macae               45.25     0.00   10.00  37.50  45.25    0.00   10.00  37.50
2002        Microinvest         0.00      1.25    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.42    0.00   0.00
2002        Net Servicos        0.00     3 1.74   0.00   0.00   0.00   3 1.74   0.00   0.00
1994        Para Pigmentos      8.60      0.00    9.00   0.00   8.60    0.00    9.00   0.00
1996        Perdigao            4.38      0.00    0.00   0.00   4.38    0.00    0.00   0.00
1994100102  Portobello          0.00       1.15   0.00   0.00   0.00     1.15   0.00   0.00
2000        Puras               2.67      0.00    0.00   0.00   2.67    0.00    0.00   0.00
2003104     Queiroz Galvao      0.60      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.08    0.00    0.00   0.00
            RandonImp1Part      3.73      0.00    3.00   0.00   3.73    0.00    3.00   0.00
1997103     SP Alpargatas       30.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  15.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1994197     Sadia               6.37      0.00    4.00  40.43   6.37    0.00    4.00  40.43
2002104     Salutia             0.00     0.08     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.08    0.00   0.00
1997        Samarco             6.30      0.00    0.00   0.00   6.30    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998        Saraiva             4.62      3.00    0.00   0.00   4.62    3.oo    0.00   0.00
2003        Satipel             13.93    0.00    10.00   0.00  13.93    0.00   10.00   0.00
2000        Sepetiba            26.85    0.00     5.00   0.00  11.85    0.00    5.00   0.00
1999        Sudamerica          0.00     15.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   15.00    0.00   0.00
1990191     Suzano Bahia SUI    0.00     0.53     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.53    0.00   0.00
2001        Synteko             16.71    0.00     0.00   0.00  16.71    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996        TIGRE               1.92     0.00     0.00   0.00   1.92    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998104     Tecon Rio Grande    8.10     0.00     0.00   8.10   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
2001I03     Tecon Salvador      0.00     0.56     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.55   0.00   0.00
2002        UP Offshore         11.60    10.00    0.00  30.00   0.00     3.oo   0.00   0.00
2002104     Unibanco            20.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   14.80   0.00    0.00   0.00



                                               94

1999    Vulcabms                  8.33        0.00      0.00    0.00      8.33    0.00       0.00   0.00
                 Total portfilio: 661.59    162.50    151.50  354.54    476.54   133.86     133.20 283.94




                                                          Approvals PendingCommitment

        FY Approval  Company                          Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.

        2005         ABN AMRO REAL                  0.05        0.00        0.00      0.00
        2000         BBA                            0.01        0.00        0.00      0.00
        2002         BancoItau-BBA                  0.00        0.00        0.00      0.10
        1999         Cibrasec                       0.00         0.01       0.00      0.00
        2002         Net Servicos2                  0.05        0.00        0.00      0.00
        2002         SuapeICT                       0.01         0.00       0.00      0.00
        2004         TermoFortaleza                 0.06         0.00       0.01      0.11
        2004         TriBanco Brazil                0.01         0.00       0.00      0.00

                          Total pendingcommittment:    0.19      0.01       0.01       0.21




                                                   95

                                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance
Brazil: IntegratedManagement of Aquatic Resourcesinthe Amazon Region                                                          - AquaBio

                                                                  Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              America  middle-
                                                        Brazil 8 Carib.  income          Ievelopment diamond'
2003
Population,mid-year(millions)                             76.6      534     2,655                         Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                         2,720   3,260     1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          479.5     1741    3,934                               T

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population (%)                                               13       15      0.9
Labor force (%)                                              16       2.1      1.2

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)
Poverty (%ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)              22
UrbanPOpulation (%of totalpOpulatiOfl)                       83       77       50
Life expectancyat birth(pars)                                69       71       69                               1
Infant mortaiity(per 4000live births)                        33       28       32
Chiid mainutrition(%ofchildrenunder5)                         6                 11             Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)            87        86       61
illiteracy(%of populationega 159                             14       11       1)
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-agepopulation)          116      P9        1P          ---Brazil
   Male                                                     153       131      113                   Lower-middle-income group
   Female                                                   144      t26       111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1983      1993    2002     2003       1  Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                              203.3     438.3   460.6     492.3
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                     6.7      20.6     8.8       20.1
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                 11.4      0.5      15.5     6.9     I                       Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                         8.1     22.3     218      23.6
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                            ..    20.2      18.5    20.7                                T
                                                                                      ~




Currentaccount balancelGDP                        -3.4      -0.1     -16      0.6       Domestic
Interestpayments/GDP                               3.9      0.6      2.9      2.7       savings                            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   46.5      32.9     49.6     48.0
Total debt serviceiexports                       54.7      24.4     70.3      65.1
Present value of debtiGDP                                           52.6
Present value of debtiexports                                     329.6               I                     indebtedness
                                     1983-93 1993-03     2002     2003 2003-07
(average annualgroluth)
GDP                                       2.4     2.3        19     -0.2      3.6            ----..Bra.?#

GDP percapita                             0.6      1.0      0.7      -14      2.9                      Lower-middle-income grow


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1983      1993    2002     2003          Growth of investment and GDP (Oh)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                       D.9       7.6      5.6       5.6      20

Industry                                         44.0      416      20.6      19.1       10
  Manufacturing                                  33.2      25.0     t2.4      114
Services                                          45.1     50.8     73.5      75.1       0
                                                                                      - -
Privateconsumption                                71.2     60.1     56.1     56.9      .io
Generalgovernment consumption                     9.7      7.7      20.1      8.3
imports of goods and services                     9.0        9.1    13.4      13.1                      --GDI          -GDP


                                             1983.93   1993-03    2002     2003
(average annualgroluth)                                                                  Growth of exports and imports         ( O h )


Agriculture                                       2.4       3.9      5.0               20
industry                                           1.2       16      2.6      -5.5
                                                                               10       10
  Manufacturing                                   0.0        14       14       2.7
Services                                          3.0       2.5       16      -0.2       0

Privateconsumption                                0.8        19     -0.4      -3.3     - 10
Generalgovernment consumption                     6.4       2.0       10      118     I20
Gross domestic investment                         4.9        12     -4.3      -4.5
Imports of goods and services                     5.9       4.0    -a.3       -1.9




                                                                      96

                                                                                                                       Brazil

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1983    1993    2002    2003      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                               I
(%change)
Consumer prices                            235.0  1928.0     a 5      9.3
Implicit GDP deflator                      140.2  1996.6     0.2      12.8

Government finance
(%ofGDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                              23.9    23.7             88       88    00       01     02
Current budget balance                                        2.8     3.0
Overall surplus/deficit                                                               .--.-GDPddiatar         &CPi


TRADE
                                           1983    1993    2002    2003
(US5 millions)                                                                Export and import levels (US3 mill.)

Total exports (fob)                               38,563   60,362  73,084    80.000 T
 Coffee                                            2,466    3,049   3,456
 Soybeans                                          3,074    3,032   4,290
 Manufactures                                     25,935   33,000  39,653
Total imports (cif)                               25,256   47,237  48,260
 Food                                               1,089   1,085     924
 Fuel andenergy                                    2,239    6,240   6,577
                                                                                                                              I
 Capitalgoods                                      8,369    11,643  a348

Export price index(S95=MO)                    60       91      88      95             87    98    98      00    01   02    03

Import price index(1995-MO)                   57      67       91      90                     mExports          mimparts
Terms of trade (895-MO)                      140      0 6      97      7)5


B A L A N C E o f PAYMENTS
                                           1983    1993    2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services              23,611  4166    69,90   83,567
Imports of goods and services             8,534    31,795  61,709   6388      * T
Resourcebalance                            4,077   9,821    8,204   8,748

Net income                                -11,022 -12,099  -*,a1   -18,552
Net current transfers                        08     1,686   2,390   2,867

Current account balance                   -6,837    -592   -7,597   4,063

Financing items (net)                      4,946   9,805   -6,003    -963
Changes in net reserves                     1,891  -9.20   0,600    -3,DO

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)      4,563   32,211  37,623  49,296
Conversion rate (DEC, iocai/US$)         2.7)E-0 3.22E-2       2.9     3.1


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1983    1993    2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                 :omposition o f 2003 debt (US$ mill.;
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      98,525   144,04  228,662  236,245
  IBRD                                     3,628   6,575    8,565   8,588
  IDA                                          0        0        0       0

Total debt service                        23,304   0,883   51,636  56,793
  IBRD                                       507    1,858    1518    2,013
  IDA                                          0        0        0       0

Cornposltionof net resource flows
  Official grants                              6      59         0
  Officialcreditors                        1,576   -1,033     9 6
  Privatecreditors                         2,659   0,073    -9,541    233
  Foreign direct investment                1,609    1,292        0
  Portfolio equity                             0   6,570         0                          F:
World Bank program                                                                        156.904
  Cornmitments                             2,067     636     1,276    1.27     4 - iBRD                           E Bilateral
                                                                                                                   -
  Disbursements                            1204       471    1.384    1.291    3  IDA      D -Other nnltilata-ai  F Private
                                                                                                                   -
  Principalrepayments                        270    1279     1,063   1,633     2-IMF                              G -Short-term




                                                                 97

                              Annex 15: Incremental Cost Analysis
  Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resourcesin the Amazon Region               - AquaBio

                                        PROJECT   OVERVIEW


The Project's development objective (DO) i s to support the mainstreamingo f a multi-
stakeholder, integratedmanagement approach to the conservation and sustainable use o f
freshwater biodiversity inpublic policies and programs inthe Brazilian Amazon River Basin.

The project's global environmental objective (GEO) i s to reduce threats to the integrity o f
freshwater ecosystems inthe Brazilian Amazon, and assure the conservation and sustainable use
of its freshwater biodiversity o f global importance, especially through the generation and
dissemination o f experiences that promote the expansion and replication o f integrated
management o f aquatic resources inthe Amazon Basin over the longterm.

The principal project outcomes and results would be: (i)  institutional arrangements and
processes established inthree sub-basins o f the BrazilianAmazon leading to the adoption o f a
new integrated management approach applied to priority issues and problems that affect the
aquatic biodiversity, water resources, and living conditions of local communities; (ii)  sectoral
demonstration activities insupport o f integrated management o f aquatic resources developed and
tested inthree sub-basins o fthe Brazilian Amazon, with positive impacts on aquatic
biodiversity, on the reduction o f conflicts among natural resources users, and on the
improvement o f living communities inlocal communities; (iii)     greater operational and decision
making capacity by institutions and civil society at the local, State, and Federal levels to support
and implement integrated management; and (iv) institutional capacity strengthened to administer
and coordinate actions insub-basins, monitor impacts, and disseminate the experiences
generated by the project.

To achieve those objectives and outcomes, the project would develop the following major
activities:
    Development o f participatory diagnostic analysis o f aquatic resources issues inthree
    demonstrative sub-basins (including two sub-basins characterized by clear water
    rivers/ecosystems -Xingu and Tocantins rivers, and one by black water rivers/ecosystems -
    Negro river), followed by the formulation o f Action Programs for integratedmanagement o f
    aquatic resources (APs) inthese sub-basins;
    Implementationo f demonstration activities providing inputs for the development o f the
    Action Programs;
    Support actions that lead to the implementation o f institutional arrangements and processes
    for integrated management o f aquatic resources, with key users o f aquatic resources intarget
    areas within the three project sub-basins (involving three states within the Brazilian
    Amazon);
    Development o f a strategy leading to the financial sustainability o f APs, with pilot financial
    mechanisms adopted by the end o f the project;
    Systematization o f experiences o f integratedmanagement o f aquatic resources, and
    formulation o f a proposal for institutional arrangements and processes for implementation o f



                                                  98

    integratedmanagement at the level o f the Brazilian Amazon, followed by discussions (PY5)
    with interestedparties inthe nine states (with inputsfrom experiences generated inthe sub-
    basins);
    Training o f multipliersand animators (leaders and technicians) inprinciples and practices o f
    integratedmanagement o f aquatic resources;
    Development and implementationo f an environmental education strategy, targeting aquatic
    resources users and decision makers at local, state and sub-national (i.e. Brazilian Amazon)
    levels;
    Support to community organizations and to the formation o fpartnerships with organizations
    dealing with the use o f aquatic biodiversity and water resources inthe project area;
    Strengthening o f existing and/or creation o f new fora (e.g. local committees, state councils)
    that facilitate social actors participation and provide continuity to the implementationo f
    integrated management o f aquatic resources;
    Training o f local stakeholders (fishermen, rural producers, local politicians and local
    government staff, local NGOs, etc.);
    Project Management;
    Project Monitoring and Evaluation; and
    Project Information Dissemination.

The GEF Alternative would achieve these objectives at a total incremental cost o f US$ 15.76
million excluding contingencies (US$ 17.13 million with contingencies), with a proposed GEF
contribution o f US$ 7.18 M(excluding Block B resources o f US$ 0.218 million) and co-
financing   o f US$ 9.95 million from the following sources: (i)    the Brazilian Federal
Government's own resources (US$ 6.98 million; US$ 2.25 million in-kind/salaries'* and US$
4.73 million incash, with the latter corresponding to resources "earmarked" inthe country's
approved Multi-Year Plan- PPA); (ii)          the World Bank (US$ 559,000) - from the existing
National Environmental NEP I1Project (WB loan BR-35741); (iii)           State governments' own
resources from the Governments o f the States o f Mato Grosso (US$ 397,200           - US$   141,300 in
cash and US$256,000 insalaries) and Amazonas (US$467,900 - US$ 354,500 insalariesiin-
kindand US$ 113,000 incash); (iv) RainForest Trust Fund-RFT/G-8 countries (US$ 1,46
million) - from the existing Ecological Corridors Project (Central Amazon corridor's
component); and (v) resources from beneficiaries (US$ 79,000).

                       AQUATIC BIODIVERSITY ISSUES        AND UNDERLYINGCAUSES

The rivers o f the Amazon Basin and their associated ecosystems are characterized by a rich
diversity o f freshwater fauna and flora o f global importance, representing approximately 30% o f
the world's freshwater ichthyofauna, most o f which i s endemic. Although smaller, the numbers
o f amphibians, reptiles, and aquatic birds occurring inthe Amazon Region are also highly
significant in global terms. It is estimated that there are nearly 30,000 species o f animals and
plants, but the true number remains unknown due to the difficulty incompleting inventories
associated with problems o f access and other logistical considerations.
Despite this wealth, the Amazon's aquatic ecosystems and their natural resources are suffering
increasingly from a number o f threats. These include:

'* Staffsalaries from the Ministryo f Environment (MMA) and IBAMA (Headquarters and staff form Amazon and
Para states)


                                                     99

    direct use o f aquatic resources at unsustainable levels through hunting(turtles, manatees) and
    fishing (commercial, aquarium trade, sport fisheries), leadingto the over-exploitation o f
    some species such as tambaqui, piramutaba,filhote, tucunark, andpirarucu;
    deforestation for direct use o f timber and implementation o f agricultural and livestock
    activities;
    use o f modern, mechanized agricultural techniques in soybean and cotton crops, leading to
    erosiodsedimentation from unsustainable land use and aquatic pollution from pesticides;
    extensive cattle raising on dry land (leading to soil erosion and sedimentation o f water
    bodies), and use o f floodplains (vdrzeas) for water buffalo raising (leading to destruction o f
    important aquatic habitats);
    growing urbanization, with increased dumpingo f organic and solid waste (garbage) into
    waters, and increased demand for timber, fish, and other aquatic resources;
    changes inflood regimes and system connectivity through construction o f infrastructures
    such as hydropower dams and navigation channels (waterways), which may lead to reduced
    biological productivity by altering floodplain inundation regimes and curtailing longitudinal
    and lateral connectivity inthe system; construction o f other infrastructure such as
    transmission lines, roads, gas pipelines and irrigation projects; and
    miningactivities such as gold miningand extraction o fsand and pebbles (leading to potential
    contamination o f fish and increased sedimentation o f water courses).

The traditional land/water use systems, adopted inthe region some 2,000 years ago, utilizingthe
practice o frotating slash-and-burn and subsistence fishing, are considered environmentally
sustainable when the population density i s very low, as inthe case o f vast indigenous areas and
other hardto reach areas, which allows the natural ecosystem to fully recover inthe interval
between the use o f its resources. However, these traditional forms o fusing natural resources
havebeen shown to be inadequate when the use o f resources intensifies as a consequence o f
population growth.

The increase inthe recorded number o f local and regional conflicts over the use o f aquatic
resources (particularly fisheries) inthe Amazon Basin i s a clear indication that the intensive use
of these resources has exceeded their levels o f sustainability insome sub-basins, such as inthe
lower and middle Negro River, the lower Tocantins, and floodplain "lakes" inthe
Solim6es/Amazon River channel.

Another difficulty to be faced i s the extent and diversity o f Amazon ecosystems, which limits the
implementability o f plans and policies ifthey are not adjusted reflect the local features o f
ecology, culture, and social organization. The aquatic ecosystems o f nutrient-rich muddywater
rivers (such as the main channel o f the Amazon), and those o f clear and black water rivers,
characterized by the oligotrophic environments (nutrient-poor waters), need specific approaches
to ensure the conservation and sustainable use o f their aquatic resources.

At this time, the adoptiono feffective measures to resolvethe above issues isjeopardizedby a
series o f difficulties/barriers to the resolution o f these problems. The principal barriers to the
resolution o f problems and conflicts over the use and management o f aquatic biodiversity inthe
Amazon may be summarized infour major groups:



                                                    100

    lack o f organization and institutional capacity at the basin, federal, state, and local levels to
    deal with these issues in a participatory and integrated manner, taking into account local
    environmental, cultural, and socioeconomic characteristics;
    barriers - particularly the lack o f accessible systems for sharing existing information with
    resource users and other stakeholders - to the adoption o fmore sustainable harvesting
    practices o f aquatic resources, and o f appropriate land use practices that result in fewer
    negative impacts on freshwater ecosystems, while also generating economic benefits for local
    communities;
    absence o f continuous monitoring and information systems that (a) track policy and
    institutional failures that may result infurther degradation o f freshwater biodiversity, and (b)
    improve the knowledge base about freshwater biodiversity and its ecology inthe Brazilian
    Amazon, and about ecosystem responsesto the intensification o fnatural resource use and
    other changes to the natural environment; and
    few or no opportunities and fora for discussion and decision-making related to the issues
    above, to educate stakeholders about user needs and reach consensus on implementable
    policies.

At the presenttime, any attempt to addressthe difficulties andbarriers that affect both aquatic
biodiversity and the living conditions o f riverine communities along clear and blackwater
tributaries, i s at risk o fbeing ineffective due to the absenceo f resources and management
instruments that specifically support the implementation of such integrated water and aquatic
resources management approaches.

                                           BASELINESCENARIO

GovernmentResponseto BiodiversityThreats

To address threats to biodiversity inthe Amazon and particularly those associated with terrestrial
ecosystems, the Brazilian Federal Government (GOB),incollaboration with State Governments
and civil society and with support from the international community (particularly the G-8
countries), i s implementing a number o f initiatives. These interventions are focused mainly on
conservation and sustainable use o f the Amazon forest resources. The main program is the Pilot
Program for the Conservationo f the Brazilian Rainforest (hereafter called the Pilot Program),
covering about 15 projects. One o f these projects, the ProVhrzeai s the only initiative focused on
aquatic resources. It covers the main channel o f the AmazodSolim6es river (muddy water
ecosystems) and includes concrete initiatives in support o f conflict resolution over fishery
resources and co-management. Many o f the experiences and lessons gained from ProVarzea are
also relevant to the other two types o f aquatic ecosystems o f the Amazon (i.e. clear and black
water ecosystems). However, they are limitedto fisheries resources and do not cover other
components o f aquatic biodiversity (e.g., turtles, manatees, etc). Inaddition, the geographic
focus o f ProVarzea i s limitedto nutrient-rich white water ecosystems, hence do not generate key
experiences which are much needed for the oligotrophichutrient-poor "clear" and "black"
waters.




                                                    101

For this reason, the GOBrequested World Bank assistanceto prepare the proposedProject,
aiming at the reduction o f the above-mentioned barriers which are impeding the resolution o f
problems and conflicts over the use and management o f aquatic biodiversity inthe Amazon,
particularly inthe "clear" and "black" water rivers. The proposed Project would capitalize on
these and other baseline programs mentionedbelow, and support the achievement o f incremental
benefits related to these and other relevant programs which comprise the baseline scenario.

Methodology
The baseline estimate was based on the selection o f ongoing and hture programs based on their
relevance to the objectives o f the proposed Project and ability to play a catalytic role, facilitating
stakeholder involvement, and internalizing aquatic biodiversity considerations into economic
sectors, development models, policies and programs. Once identified, the baseline programs
were evaluated inrelation to AquaBio's components (see Table 1 below). Only those
components o f the previously identifiedbaseline programs relevant to AquaBio's components
were assessedand included as part o f the baseline. All projects/programs identified are or would
be implemented by public institutions and/or national NGOswith experience inenvironmental
management and/or sustainable development. The identified sources o f financing include public
resources and bi- and multi-lateral financing.

The relevant baseline projects listedby component are:

Component 1.Planning and Public Policies: Under the baseline scenario, the Ecological
Corridors, ProManejo, PDA, SPRN, AMA, BRAMAB 11, and ARPA projects (see Table 1
below) involve planning and public policy actions that generate significant benefits for the
protection o f the Amazon's natural resources, including forestry management, environmental
enforcement, and expansion and strengthening o f conservation units. Specifically, the Ecological
Corridors Project inthe Central Amazon adopts an important territorial approach to coordinate
actions aimed at conserving the Amazon biome. ProVhrzea supports white-water rivers but does
not include activities inclear or black water ecosystems. It works with an emphasis on fishery
resources but does not encompass other components o f aquatic biodiversity.

Component 2. Demonstration Activities: Various baseline programs (especially PROECOTUR,
PD/A, and ProManejo) support investments inthe productive sectors o f tourism and forests, and
ProVarzeasupports promising initiatives for sustainable fishing inthe floodplains o f the
Solimaes and Amazon Rivers. However, as previously mentioned, they focus on conservation o f
forest/terrestrial ecosystems and white-water river floodplains.

Component 3. Building Capacity: Under the baseline scenario, most o f the above-mentioned
programs carry out training and environmental education activities on the subjects o f forestry
management, environmental enforcement, and conservation units.However, they do not include
training that strengthens or develops technical and institutional knowledge and integrated
participatory management inthe area o f sustainable use and management o f aquatic biodiversity.

Component 4. Project Management, M&E, and Information Dissemination: Underthe baseline
scenario, the Brazilian Government finances the implementation o f a project Physical and
Financial Monitoring System (SIGMA)which ensures the availability of information on



                                                102

physical and financial execution. The National Water Agency (ANA) maintains a water
monitoring network inall sub-basins o f the Amazon, including the project's three sub-basins,
with measurements o fwater quality inpart o f the collection stations. The Brazilian
 Environmental Management Institute (IBAMA) and the State Governments operate their
programs for environmental enforcement and control o f activities that may potentially degrade
the basin's natural resources. Through the ProVarzea project, IBAMA monitors fishing
 (unloading o f fish) and operates a pilot environmental information system (two municipalities),
including soil and water use inthe Solimdes/Amazon Rivers. However, with the exception o f
 some studies and research carried out on an ad hoc basis, there are no standardized
methodologies for aquatic monitoring nor basic information on the status and trends o f aquatic
biodiversity inthe Brazilian Amazon, inorder to make environmentalmanagement decisions
based on solid results o f environmentalmonitoring.



I                                                                   ProposedProject Components
           Baseline Projects        Source Of     Plans and       Demonstration    CapacityBuilding    Project Mgmt,
                                    Funding      Public Policies    Activities    and Environmental     M&E, Info
I                                                                                     Education        Dissemination

 Floodplain Res. Mgmt Project        RWl),
 (ProVhrzea- Rain Forest Program    IDFID,
                                     KfW        1                1               1                    1              1



  Ecotourism in the Amazon -
 PROECOTUR
  Demonstration Projects             Kfw,                              X                  X
                                     GOBtreas.
 National Environmental Education    GOB treas.                                           X
 Program- PNEA
  Consolidation of Brazilian         GOB treas.       X
  Biosphere Reserves - BRAMAB I1

  Consolidation of Natural Heritage
  sites in Brazil                    GOBtress,
                                     UNFIP,           X

 Natural Res. Policy Project - SPRN  m,               X                                                      X
                                     Kfw,EU
 Apoio ao Monitoramento e Analise -  RFT,             X
                                     UNFIP,
 AMNPPG7                             GOB treas.

  Forest Res. Mgmt.Project -         DFID,            X                 X
 ProManejo                           Kfw,
                                     GOBtreas.
  Support to Extrativist Reserves    GOB                                X                 X
  RESEXI1                            treasury

  Environmental Management and       Dutch            X
  Sust. Develp. in the Amazon             GOB
                                     treasury

European Union).


                                                        103

(2) Activities financed by the Global Environmental Facility are mentioned in this analysis to indicate the full extent of activities
underway in the region; nonetheless, they are not considered as part o f financing of the Baseline Scenario. It is the case of the
ARPA Project (GEF-funded) which was considered as baseline but was not considered for baseline cost estimation.
(3) UNFIP: UnitedNations Fundfor International Partnerships.

BaselineCosts

Inthe absenceofadditional GEFfinancing, the implementation ofthe above-mentioned
programs/projects would make a small contribution towards achieving the project's objectives.
The estimated costs of baseline activities listed inTable 1 above total US$33.8 million (see
Incremental Cost Matrix at the end o f this Annex). Sources o f financing vary and include
government resources as well as funds from bi- and multi-lateral organizations, especially those
that finance the Pilot Program for the Protection o f the Brazilian Rainforest. The
Govemment/public contribution to the baseline i s utilized principally to cover staff salaries
(licensing, monitoring, environmental enforcement activities), training o f technicians,
operational costs, and activities to raise public awareness.The remainder i s financed by external
sources (World Bank, IDB, KfW, RFT, EU, and the private sector).

BaselineBenefitsandIncrementalReasoning

The activities foreseen inthe baseline scenario would mostly produce national benefits inthe
form o f sustainable development and adequate use o f natural resources. Its implementation
would provide: (i)       greater representation o f Amazonian ecosystems inthe National Conservation
UnitSystem (SNUC); (ii) monitoringand environmentalenforcement ofthe Amazon
                                  better
Rainforest (iii)     greater (albeit limited) awareness by the population o f the importance o f the
Amazon's natural resources, especially its land resources; and (iv) economic alternatives for the
sustainable use o f the Solimties/Amazon River floodplains and o f the Amazon's forest resources.
The training provided by baseline initiatives is focused on improving the environmental
conditions, management, and conservation o f forest areas, but it does not contribute to a better
understanding o f threats to aquatic biodiversity and o f the origin o f aquatic resource degradation
problems as a national and global environmental issue. The baseline includes some introductory
measures aimed at the restoration and conservation o f floodplains o f the Solimties/Amazon
Rivers(nutrient-rich white waters), but it does not call for actions that work specifically with
critical situations inoligotrophic environments (black and clear water rivers), where the
challenge o fthe sustainable use o fbiodiversity i s even greater. These environments require
different alternatives and proposals for the conservation and sustainable use o f their aquatic
resources. O f equal significance, the baseline does not include the inter-sectoralcoordination o f
planning and implementation needed to ensure that aquatic biodiversity objectives are
incorporatedin sectoral plans and programs including contributing toward maintaining the
functions and services o f the Amazon's aquatic ecosystems. Finally, it should also be mentioned
that the baseline does not ensure access to and sharing o f information, both inside and outside the
project area, particularly inthe other South American countries o f the larger Amazon basin.

Insummary, the baseline scenario's contribution to addressing threats to aquatic biodiversityis
limited to fisheries resources and does not cover other components o f aquatic biodiversity under
pressure (e.g. turtles, manatees). As previously mentioned, although important for improving
fishery resource management inmuddy water rivers, the baseline does not support actions in
clear (e.g., Xingu and Tocantins) and black (Negro River) water rivers, characterized by the


                                                             104

oligotrophy o f the aquatic environment. It i s therefore necessary and urgent to generate different
alternatives and proposals for the conservation and sustainable use o f these oligotrophic aquatic
resources which are threatened by huntingand fishing and by land use activities unsuited to the
maintenance o f their integrity and structure.

Moreover, there i s a need to develop demonstration activities and guidelines that could lead to
permanent public policies in support o f the conservation and sustainable use o f aquatic
biodiversity. To be effective, such policies and their respective action programs should
encompass an adequate spatial scale, preferably consideringwater boundaries (such as sub-
basins or parts thereof) and the municipalities included inthem, and should have well defined
political, institutional, and financial arrangements that may be effectively assumed by different
actors of society - state, mayors' offices, private enterprises, rural landowners, and non-
governmental organizations. Thus, the proposed Project represents a fundamental step, designed
to complement initiatives already developed inthe Amazon, especially the ProVarzea and
Ecological Corridors Projects, mainly through facilitating the development of integrated
management models that reduce threats to the Amazon's globally important aquatic biodiversity
and, at the same time, are replicable inother areas or sub-basins o f the region.

                                           GEFALTERNATIVE

The GEF Alternative would provide support to the long-term restoration o f important
Amazonian aquatic ecosystems, clear and black water, through the removal o fbarriers that
impede the resolution o f problems and conflicts over the use and management o f aquatic
biodiversity and water resources inthe Amazon. The financing o f incremental costs associated
with the protectiono fthese ecosystems would expand the baseline scenario by: (i)     developing
the necessary conditions to support the implementation o fintegrated actions for the management
and sustainable use o f the Amazon's aquatic resources, removing barriers and generating public
policies so that the objectives o f aquatic biodiversity are incorporated inthe various
productive/economic sectors; (ii)   testing and implementingpractices to demonstrate the
management and sustainable use o f aquatic resources and soil use practices compatible with the
functioning and integrity o f aquatic resources; (iii)strengthening institutional and community
capacity to address land degradation issues and increasingpublic awareness o f the importance o f
aquatic biodiversity and its sustainable use; and (iv) improving institutional capacity to
coordinate inter-sectoral interventions and monitor project impacts and results, and disseminate
them throughout the Amazon basin, within and outside Brazil.

costs

The total cost o f the GEF Alternative, including the cost o f the baseline scenario (US$33.8 M), i s
estimated at US$50.93 M(GEFJinancing: US$7.18M),detailed as follows: (a) US$15.71 M
(GEFJinancing: US$l.06M) for the development o f policies and plans for the integrated
management o f aquatic resources (Component 1); (b) US$12.71 M(GEFJinancing: US$].78 M)
to support the implementation o f demonstration activities insupport o f integrated management o f
aquatic resources (Component 2); (c) US$7.9 M(GEFfinancing: US2.56M) for environmental
education, mobilization o f society, and training (Component 3); and (d) US$14.61 M (GEF
Jinancing: US$].77M) to support project management (GEF: US$0.87M), monitoring and



                                                  105

evaluation (GEF; USN.65 M), and dissemination o f information (GEF: US$O.25 M) -
Component 4.

Benefits

With the GEF Alternative, the GOB would be able to facilitate the adoption o fthe strategic
actions necessary to implementintegrated management o f aquatic resources, whose goal i s to
internalize conservation and sustainable use o f aquatic biodiversity into sustainable development
policies and programs inthree sub-basins. At the same time, the GEF Alternative would provide
additional opportunities to improve the life and economic well-being o f rural and riparian
communities inthese three sub-basins as a result o fbetter community organization and
understandingo f the importance and sustainable use o f aquatic resources. The benefits generated
by this alternative approach involve bothnational and global benefits. National benefits would
include sustainable development (and improved livelihoods) through: (i)      the resolution o f
conflicts over the use o f fishery resources; (ii)
                                                 better, sustainable management o f aquatic
resources; (iii)greater soil productivity in agricultural lands that presently suffer from erosion
and cause sedimentationo f aquatic ecosystems; (iv) new opportunities for income generation
that reduce pressure on aquatic resources; and (v) the production o f environmental services
associated with riparian forest recovery and conservation o f overexploited aquatic species such
as tambaqui, piramutaba,jlhote andpirarucu (see complete list o f national benefits inthe
Incremental Cost Matrix at the end o f this Annex). Global benefits include: (i)   strengthening o f
the Government to deal with threats and barriers to the protection o f the Amazon's aquatic
resources as a global environmental and sustainable development issue, and to comply with
obligations stemming from the country's international commitments for the Conservation and
sustainable use o f these resources; (ii)conservation and sustainable use o f aquatic biodiversity in
globally important ecosystems; (iii) scope and involvement o f civil society and the
                                       greater
private sector inthe planning and management o f the Amazon's aquatic resources; (iv) closer
linking of aquatic resource conditions with development priority considerations; (v) improved
understanding and appreciation for aquatic biodiversity and role o f livelihood opportunities in
ensuring its conservation and sustainable use; and (vi) development o f sustainable aquatic
management systems and generation and dissemination o f lessons that could be adapted towards
the conservation o f freshwater biodiversity inother parts o f the basin, including those occurring
outside o f Brazil. For more details on national and global benefits, see the I C matrix below.

Incremental Costs

The difference between the costs o f the baseline scenario (US$33.8 M) and the GEF Alternative
(US$50.93 M) is estimated at US$17.13 M.The Incremental Cost Matrix summarizes the
baseline and incremental expenses duringthe project's six-year period. The co-financing o f
US$9.95 Mo fthe incremental costs was mobilized as follows: (i)       US$6.78 Mfrom the Brazilian
Government; (ii)   US$0.56 Mfrom the World Bank-financed NEP I1Project (Loan BR-35741);
(iii)US$1.46 Mfrom the "Corridor Interstice" component o f the Ecological Corridors Project,
financed by the Rain Forest Trust; (iv) US$482,500 from the Government o f the State o f Mato
Grosso; (v) US$586,000 from the Government o f the State o f Amazonas; and (vi) US$78,900
from AquaBio beneficiaries.




                                                 106

The total contribution requested from the GEF i s US$7.18 M, detailed as follows: (i)
                                                                                    US$1.23 M
 (GEFJinancing: USZ.06M) for policies andplans for the integratedmanagemento f aquatic
resources (Component 1); (ii)  US$6.43 M(GEFJinancing:US$Z.78M) to support the
implementation of demonstration activities insupport o f integrated management o f aquatic
resources (Component 2); (iii) US3.67 M(GEFJinancing: US2.56M) for environmental
education, mobilization of society, and training (Component 3); and (iv) US$5.90 M (GEF
jnancing; US$Z.77M) to support project management (GEF: US$0.87M),monitoring and
evaluation (GEF; US0.65 M),and dissemination o f information (GEF: US$0.25M)
 (Component 4). The above-mentioned GEF support would cover the incremental costs of
technical assistance, consultancies, and services (US$3.O M), environmental education, training,
 and workshops (US1.54 M),grants to promote the adoption o f demonstrationactivities
 (US$1.34 M), equipment and vehicles (US0.21 M),and provisions for travel, monitoring, and
 field work (US$1.06 M).




                                                107

                          -      Matrix 1.Incremental Cost Matrix

Component         cost      US$                Domestic Benefit                                Global Benefit
                Category   Million
Component 1    Baseline     14.47  Adoption o f planning and public           [mprovednatural resource management
Planning and                       policies, though limited to a) terrestrial  J f terrestrial ecosystems and, to a certain
Public Policy                      ecosystems; b) environmental licensing      degree, floodplains; however, to date,
                                   and enforcement; and c) to the              attention has been limited to floodplains
                                   expansion and strengthening o f             located in white-water riversiecosystems
                                   Protected Areas                            [i.e. the main channel o f the Amazon
                                                                              river) and particularly to fishery
                                                                              resources management inthose
                                                                              floodplains, not including other
                                                                              components o f aquatic biodiversity.
               With GEF     15.71  Improved planning, institutional            Increasedopportunities to conserve and
               AIternative         arrangements and processes for the          sustainably use the Amazon's aquatic
                                   establishment o f Aquatic Resources         biodiversity resources through the
                                   Management, leading to the adoption o f     development and the adoption o f inter-
                                   sustainable development and income          sectoral policies and programmes, hence
                                   generation opportunities.                   reducing threats to these aquatic
                                                                              resources

               Incremental  1.24   Note: Consists of: GEF (US$1,06M) an0 ;OB (US$ 0,18M) contributions
Component2     Baseline     6.28   Development o f demonstration               Limited global benefits, associated
Demonstration                      activities and investments to develop       mainly to the conservation o f
Activities                         and adopt in forest management plans        forest/terrestrial biodiversity and white-
                                                                               water rivers floodplains
                                   Conflict resolution over the use of
                                   fishery resources in white-water rivers
               With GEF     12.71  Same as above, though with inclusion        Conservation and sustainableuse of both
               Alternative         local communities and NGOs                  terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity
                                   developing experience in the                (including white-, clear- and black-water
                                   sustainable use o f aquatic resources for   rivers), facilitating the adoption o f
                                   economic revenues                           appropriate practices for maintaining and
                                                                               restoring aquatic ecosystems
                                   Closer linking o f aquatic resource
                                   conditions with development priority        Transition to more sustainable
                                   considerations                              livelihoods by supporting opportunities
                                                                               for generating income while at the same
                                   Resolution of conflicts over the use o f    time protecting aquatic biodiversity
                                   fishery resources in clear- and black-
                                   water rivers; greater soil productivity in   Broader participatory approach for
                                   agricultural lands that presently suffer     sustainable aquatic resources
                                   from erosion and cause sedimentation        management, includingthe adoption o f
                                   o f aquatic ecosystems; new                 best practices of land andor water use
                                   opportunities for income generation that     for agricultural, fisheries and ecotourism.
                                   reduce pressure on aquatic resources;
                                   the production o f environmental
                                   services associated with riparian forest
                                   recovery and conservation o f
                                   overexploited aquatic species
               Incremental  6.43   Note: Consists of: GEF 1uS$ 1.78M): i, ;OB fUS$1.47M)and World

Component3     Baseline     4.23   Increased awareness o f environmental        Awareness on the importance of forest
Building                           issues, concentrated on terrestrial          protection andon terrestrial biodiversity
Capacity                           ecosystems of the Amazon.                    conservation




                                                      108

 Component   ZXF                                  Domestic Benefit                             Global Benefit
               Category   Million
                                      Improved knowledge o f stakeholders       Better understanding and appreciation for
                                      (fishermen, rural producers, community   both terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity
                                      persons, entrepreneurs, youngsters,       and role o f livelihood opportunities in
                                      women, decision-makers) on threats to     ensuring its conservation and sustainable
                                      aquatic biodiversity of the Amazon,       use; improved understanding o f questions
                                      mainstreaming conservation and            and constraints associated to degradation
                                      sustainable use of aquatic biodiversity   and over-exploitation o f aquatic
                                      in their daily sectoral activities.       resources as a global environmental
                                                                                issue.
                                      Increasedawareness o f the ecological
                                      importance, and the economic and the
                                      socio-cultural aspects o f the aquatic
                                      resources o f the Amazon
                                      Note: Consists of: GEF (US$2.56 M);) and GOB (US$ 1.10 M) contributions.
Component 4                           Improved institutional capacity to
Project                               implement the legislation on natural
Management,                          resources.
M&E, and
Information                           Limited water quality and quantity
Dissemination                         monitoring undertaken at the regional
                                      (Le. Brazilian Amazon) and national
                                      levels
                                      Improved capacity to project              Increasedcapacity to implement
              Alternative             management at local, regional and         intersectoral and integrated approaches to
                                      national level.                           aquatic resources management

                                      Improved institutional capacity to        Monitoring and evaluation system
                                      implement the legislation on natural      incorporates global concerns into the
                                      resources and, inparticular, on aquatic   existing M&E systems in place under
                                     resources.                                 baseline programmes

                                      Monitoring and evaluation system in       Increased outreach and involvement of




Total        *                        place and operational                     civil society and private sector in the
                                                                                planning and management o f aquatic
                                      Development and dissemination o f         resources
                                      minimum information on aquatic
                                      biodiversity needed to improve the
                                      knowledge base on the Amazon
                                      biome's aquatic resources

              Incremental  5.80       Note: Consists of: GEF (US$ 1.77M) at     GOB (US$4.03 M)
              Baseline     33.80
              GEF          50.93               ~~          ~~~




              Alternative
                                     Note: Consistsof: GEF de US$ 7.18 M: 3B USS6.78M: WorldBanWPNMA US$
                                      0.56 M; RFT US$1.46M; GoAM0.586; GoMT US$0.482M; and BeneJiciaries
                                      US$0.079 Mcontributions
                          in totals are due to rounding error and the amounts include incontingencies.




                                                         109

                                   Annex 16: STAP Roster Review
  Brazil: Integrated Management of Aquatic Resourcesinthe Amazon Region- AquaBio

STAP Expert Review and Project Team Response

STAP Reviewer: Thomas Lovejoy

Commentsbv STAP Reviewer

(a) Key Issues
The freshwater biodiversity o fthe Amazon basin (an estimated 3000 species o f fish alone) is
certainly o f global importance and a project, which addresses the conservation, and sustainable
management o f this biodiversity i s more than appropriate.

There i s sufficient scientific and socio-economic as well as political (e.g. agencies) information
for this to be a reliable and solid project. The three sub-basins chosen for the project offer a
variety o f different situations and have good information available.

Almost all the threats to the ecosystem are taken into account. The major exception i s the threat
o f deforestation to the integrity o f the overall hydrological cycle o f the Amazon. This continues
to be largely ignored, but Ianticipate with the permanent and now strengthened Amazon Treaty
(OTCA) Secretariat that this will be addressed separately. Major hydroelectric projects could
threaten the project but the sub-basins chosen either have already (years ago infact) had such
projects (e.g. Tucurui), or are unlikely to have one built (Le., the Rio Negro area energy supplies
will come largely from natural gas inthe foreseeable future). The involvement o f Eletronorte in
the project should ward o f f any possible conflicts.

Team Response: Assessing and improving the readiness to address threats to the overall
hydrological cycle of the Amazon basin as a whole i s the focus o f the UNEP/ACTO/OAS GEF
Project, currently under preparation. The proposed AquaBio Project will also contribute to this
objective through collaboration and coordinationbetween the proposed AquaBio Project and that
project (as presented inTable 2 o f the Project Brief) and through project actions at the sub-basin
level.

One possible threat i s that o f exotic and invasive species. It would be useful to have an analysis
made o f the topic including threats from aquaculture as well as from ballast water?

Team Response: We agree that these are important points. Those two issues, especially the
introduction o f exotic species through aquaculture activities, will be addressed by the project
through environmental education, training, and technical extension activities, for the various
stakeholders. Inaddition, project support for the development and implementation a Freshwater
Biodiversity Information System (SIBA) will allow for earlier detection o f any problems related
to exotic aquatic species ina timely manner. The fact that CONABIO will act as the project's
Steering Committee will probably offer additional opportunities to address such issues on a
national level, as well as other relevant ones that may surface duringthe project implementation
period.



                                                    110

The aquarium fish trade i s included as it should be?Ibelieve it i s a problem on the Rio Negro
butifmanagedproperly couldbe a source o f sustainable development.

Team Response: The aquarium fishtrade is identified inthe project proposal as an important
issue to be addressed, and will be a central point inproject activities inthe Rio Negro basin. The
management o f access and sustainable use o f ornamental fishing resources was identified as a
priority theme for the Rio Negro basin in a project preparation workshop that took place in
Brasilia, N o v 30-Dec 01, and reference is made to the issue inAnnex 1 (socio-environmental
Diagnostic) and Annex 4 (description o f Component 2) to the Project Brief.

While the Amazon freshwater ecosystem as a whole can be threatened by inappropriate activities
inany o fthe Amazon nations, some o fthe sub-basins are actually immuneto those kindo f
threats. The Rio Negro i s not, however, and as the document acknowledges there have been
some fish kills attributed to fishpoison use inColombia. The issues o f the larger basin will be
addressed separately by a GEF/OTCA project.

Team Response: Nevertheless, the dissemination o f information component o f the AquaBio will
foster the exchange o f information between stakeholders inthe upper headwaters o f the Rio
Negro (outside Brazil) and those inthe middle and lower Rio Negro basin.

Monitoringand indicators are well planned and chosen. N o additional research i s needed to carry
out the objectives; any additional research could be supported by the science element o f the Pilot
Program for the Brazilian Rainforests.

While there already are some strictly protected areas inthe sub-basins (e.g. Jau National Park),
there could be the possibility that some additional ones should be gazetted incidental to this
effort. Private protected areas may also contribute, as could community-managed areas. The
latter could include areas which focus on sport-fishingltourism. It i s now well demonstrated that
marine protected areas contribute importantly to healthy fisheries inadjacent waters; presumably
the same should be the case for freshwaters.

Team Response: TheAmazon Region Protected Areas Project (ARPA), currently under
implementation, i s supporting the creation o fnew protected areas, including the collection o f
biological, social, and economic data on the Brazilian Amazon for use inselecting the protected
areas to be created. The Freshwater Biodiversity Information System (SIBA) to be developed
and implemented under the AquaBio project will provide an additional source of information to
allow for possible identification o f currently unknown"hot spots" o f freshwater biodiversity in
theproject area. Inaddition, the AquaBio will disseminate information to the various
stakeholders on the importance and possible advantages o fprivate protected areas and/or
community-managed areas for the long term sustainability o f aquatic resources inthe Amazon,
and such areas could be identified and supported by the stakeholders as part o fproject activities
that support the development o f Action Programs for integratedmanagement o f aquatic
resources inthe three sub-basins (see Project Brief, Annex 4, Component 1).




                                                 111

This project squarely addressesthe major problem affecting freshwater biodiversity, namely the
activities o f local communities. Without that all other kinds o f efforts (with the exception o f
protected areas sensu stricto) are likely to fail. The Amazonas State Sustainable Development
Reserve at Mamiraua demonstrates quite clearly the potential for success intransforming local
communities into stewards o f the aquatic resources. Consequently the approach taken i s essential
for the long-term situation.

(b) Global Environmental BenejWGEFgoals
 The freshwater biodiversity o f the Amazon basin ranks without question as a highglobal
conservation priority. Freshwater biodiversity tends to be neglected inconservation efforts even
though it i s affected by the entire array o f human activities ina watershed. This i s a classic GEF
type o f project.

(c) Regional Context
 This project is complementary to the ProVarzeaproject ofthe Pilot Program on the main
Solim6es/Amazonas (muddy water) river.

(d) Replicability
 There i s every reason to anticipate that success inthe three sub-basins will lead to replication in
other parts o f the Amazon drainage inBrazil and elsewhere. This project i s well designed to lead
to replication throughout the basin.

(e) Sustainability
 As at Mamiraua, the success o fthe project will automatically lead to its sustainability through
the obvious flow o fbenefits to the local community/stakeholders, so that global and local
benefits continue. Nonetheless, it mightbe worthwhile to add a small element which would
provide teachingmaterials on the aquatic biodiversity, the ecosystem and sustainable
management for the local schools.

   Additional issues
 One important aspect o f this project i s that it will bringtogether a variety o f agencies and
stakeholders that do not normally work closely together. While this i s a challenge, they all have
agreed to be part o f the project. Ifsuccessful this should produce benefits far beyond the project
itself.

Conclusion

This is a very solid project and very worthy o fGEF support.




                                                   112

1 E3

