Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  
35127 
Project Name 
Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon 
(AquaBio) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%);Sub-
national government administration (50%) 
Project ID 
P066535 
GEF Focal Area 
Biodiversity 
Recipient  
Government of Brazil 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Environment, Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests 
Project Coordinator: João Paulo Viana 
SCEN Lote 02, Sede do IBAMA, Bloco H  
Brasília - DF 70818-900 
Email: joao-paulo.viana@mma.gov.br
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 30, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 26, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
March 28, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Amazon basin covers an area of approximately 7,000,000 km
2
,
of
which about 58% 
(4,100,000 km
2
)
is located in Brazil. From a biodiversity perspective, the Amazon basin 
is unequalled; it is home to the 
world’s richest assemblages of freshwater flora and fauna, 
including 3,000 fish species, approximately one third of the world’s entire freshwater 
ichthyofauna. Many of the region’s economic activities are based on the use of aquatic 
resources, which are increasingly at risk due to the uncontrolled and poorly planned 
expansion of high-impact activities in the Basin. The unchecked development of such 
activities affect water quality, biodiversity, and the availability of fish resources. In 
addition, these activities are also source of a growing number of conflicts among resource 
users, such as, fewer income generation opportunities for riverine dwellers (
ribeirinhos)
,
reduced availability of jobs, and impacts on health and quality of life of local 
communities, especially indigenous groups, from water contamination and poorer 
nutrition due to reduced availability of fish. 
 
The Amazon’s aquatic ecosystems, its natural resources, and human communities 
dependent on them, are increasingly at risk from a number of 
threats,
 including: (i) direct 
use of aquatic resources at unsustainable levels through hunting (turtles, manatees) and 
fishing (commercial, aquarium trade, sport fishing), leading to the over-exploitation of 
some species such as
 tambaqui, piramutaba, pirarucu, 
and the cardinal tetra; (ii) direct 
contamination of rivers by increased dumping of organic and solid waste from expanding 
urban areas and mining activities; iii) changes in land use in upland areas (deforestation, 
expanding cattle ranching, urbanization) resulting in greater sediment loads and run-off 
Page  2
contamination from fertilizers and pesticides; (iv) direct habitat conversion of riparian 
ecosystems from expansion of water buffalo grazing in floodplains (
várzeas
), agriculture 
and urbanization; and from (v) changes in flood and hydrological regimes from 
infrastructure (dams and navigation channels).  
 
The Federal Government has responded to such problems by designing and implementing 
policies, programs, and projects, aimed mainly at sustainable management of floodplain 
natural resources. At the policy level, the government has enacted the National 
Biodiversity Policy (NBP) that provides an appropriate framework for present and future 
actions on conservation and sustainable use of aquatic resources. In addition, the National 
Water Agency (ANA) intends to intensify its efforts to implement the National Water 
Policy in the Amazon Basin, where conflicts over the use of aquatic resources will 
probably constitute the bulk of the issues discussed by the future River Basin 
Committees. Actions from such programs and projects include, among others: (i) the 
establishment of a mosaic of protected areas; (ii) on-the-ground testing of co-
management of fisheries resources; (iii) improvement and strengthening of monitoring 
and enforcement systems; and (iv) capacity building for sustainable resource use. 
Implementation of such projects has shown that threats can be addressed locally, and 
even threats originating from large-scale processes, such as land conversion and 
urbanization, can be mitigated through better implementation and coordination of 
policies, laws, and improved inter-institutional coordination.  
 
Despite all these efforts, a series of 
constraints
 have made it difficult to effectively 
address the threats to the Amazon Basin: (i) public policies are insufficiently articulated 
across sectors to effectively address threats; (ii) weak organizational and institutional 
capacity at the basin, state, and local levels to deal with these issues in a participatory and 
integrated manner; (iii) insufficient availability of information that policy makers and 
resource managers need to make good decisions; and (iv) insufficient knowledge about 
alternatives for the sustainable use of land and aquatic resources, especially those that 
generate economic benefits for local communities while also generating positive impacts 
on aquatic biodiversity.  
 
In order to achieve effective conservation of aquatic ecosystems within the diversity and 
vastness of the Brazilian Amazon, general plans and policies must reflect local 
ecological, cultural, and socioeconomic characteristics. From an ecological point of view, 
it is important to take into account the diversity of river systems in the region. There are 
basically three distinct river types within the Amazon: (i) sediment-
rich “whitewater” 
rivers, such as the Amazon itself, that are rich in nutrients; (ii) “clearwater” rivers, 
relatively nutrient poor, and that can range from alkaline to acidic; and (iii) “blackwater” 
rivers, with very acidic waters that are nearly devoid of sediments and nutrients, but 
which have a dark color due to natural dissolved organic matter such as tannins.  The 
interactions between river types, flood regimes, and distinct riparian ecosystems are 
responsible for a complex mosaic of aquatic habitats that characterize the Brazilian 
Amazon. From a social point of view, any approach will require the involvement of all 
stakeholders in a process of discussion, conflict resolution and decision-making within an 
Page  3
integrated ecosystem management framework, with the objective of addressing threats to 
aquatic biodiversity, water resources, and quality of human life.  
 
The proposed AquaBio Project aims at testing the development and implementation of an 
innovative approach to the conservation and sustainable use of aquatic ecosystems in 
three sub-basins that, together with the Floodplain Natural Resources Management 
Project (ProVárzea), would provide a representative sample of Amazonian aquatic 
ecosystems and problems that affect them.  The lessons and results generated by the 
project would facilitate the mainstreaming of aquatic biodiversity concerns into 
production landscapes and sectors, and ensure that conservation and sustainable use of 
biodiversity is properly included in decision-making processes associated with the future 
establishment and operation of local watershed or sub-basin committees.   
 
Country Eligibility
:
Brazil ratified the CBD on June 13, 1994 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project’s development objective
is to support the mainstreaming of a multi-
stakeholder, integrated management approach to the conservation and sustainable use of 
freshwater biodiversity in public policies and programs in the Brazilian Amazon River 
Basin. This would in part be achieved through the generation and dissemination of sub-
regional experiences that promote and facilitate the adoption of such an integrated 
management approach in the whole Amazon Basin. The global environmental objective
is to reduce threats to the integrity of freshwater ecosystems in the Brazilian Amazon, 
and assure the conservation and sustainable use of its freshwater biodiversity of global 
importance. 
 
Although some aspects of project implementation would target all states in the Brazilian 
Amazon, most project activities would take place in portions of the following three sub-
basins (project target areas), selected due to their importance to freshwater biodiversity 
and because they encompass the main  problems that afflict freshwater ecosystems in the 
Brazilian Amazon: (a) lower and middle Negro river (high fishing pressure and presence 
of ornamental fisheries trade); (b) headwaters of the Xingu river (impacts of land 
degradation on freshwater ecosystems); and (c) lower Tocantins river, below the Tucuruí 
hydropower dam (negative impacts on freshwater fisheries from construction of a 
hydropower dam).  
 
The key indicators that would be used to evaluate whether the project has achieved its 
objectives are:  
·
a
proposal regarding institutional arrangements and processes needed to implement 
integrated management of aquatic resources developed, tested, and agreed on in three 
participating States, and discussed with the other six States of the Brazilian Amazon 
by PY6;  
·
Action Programs (APs) under implementation in three Project target areas, covering 
an area of about 290,845 km
2
within three river basins (1,950,000 km
2
), with 
Page  4
participation of natural resource user
 
sectors at local, state, and federal levels by 
PY06; 
·
32,941 km
2
of freshwater productive landscapes, including associated floodplains and 
riparian areas, under improved management, with positive impacts on freshwater 
biodiversity. 
 
The project implements a major pillar of the Bank’s Regional Environment Strategy  and 
is also consistent with the Bank’s and Brazil’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and 
would contribute to two of its three long-term objectives: (i) improvement of water 
quality and of water resources management; and (ii) sustainable management of land, 
forests, and biodiversity (CAS Table 10).  
 
The project’s objectives are fully consistent with the provisions of the GEF Operational 
Strategy, and specifically with the Operational Program (OP) for Coastal, Marine, and 
Freshwater Ecosystems (OP2), with additional relevance to the OP for Integrated Land 
and Water Multiple Focal Area (OP9). The project fully supports the GEF Strategic 
Priority #2 for the Biodiversity Focal Area (Mainstreaming Biodiversity in Production 
Landscapes and Sectors), as it seeks to internalize the objectives of conservation and 
especially the sustainable use of aquatic biodiversity in the various sector programs and 
policies throughout the Amazon, especially fisheries, agriculture, and, to a lesser extent, 
mining and tourism.   
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The AquaBio Project is one of the elements in the Bank’s strategy for re-engagement in 
the Amazon, and is the only new operation focused on freshwater ecosystems. Its 
emphasis on the mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity considerations into sector 
policies will benefit from the Bank’s existing experience in facilitating dialogue for 
public policy discussion, and in assuming the role of mediator among regional, national, 
sub-national, and local actors in seeking consensus for the solution of multiple demands 
on “shared” natural resources.   
 
Mainstreaming of environmental concerns into sector policies is being supported in 
Brazil by a large Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability with an 
associated Technical Assistance Loan. Elsewhere in Latin America, the Conservation of 
Biodiversity in the High Andes Project of Colombia is financing a successful component 
to integrate biodiversity considerations into sector-wide policies, and a long-standing 
Bank support to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, through a large number of 
projects and activities, has already institutionalized a new attitude toward biodiversity 
conservation in Mesoamerica. The AquaBio would also complement and support the 
actions of other existing Bank projects in the Brazilian Amazon, such as ProVárzea, 
Forest Resources Management Project (ProManejo), Ecological Corridors Project, and 
Amazon Region Protected Areas Project (ARPA), as well as the proposed Pará Integrated 
Development Project (under preparation). 
 
Page  5
4. Description 
 
The AquaBio Project addresses various issues that directly or indirectly affect the 
sustainability and conservation of aquatic biodiversity and water resources in the 
Brazilian Amazon, and will operate on three major fronts that were identified as 
constraints for long-term conservation and sustainable use of aquatic resources in the 
Brazilian Amazon: (i) strengthening the institutional capacity of various stakeholder 
groups to participate in  decision-making processes involving the use and conservation of 
aquatic and water resources; (ii) supporting the creation or strengthening of discussion 
fora at the local, regional (sub-basin), national, and international levels; and (iii) testing 
and proposing new methodologies and technologies for the restoration and sustainable 
use of natural resources that affect the sustainability of aquatic resources in the Amazon 
Basin. Four components have been identified.  
 
Component 1 - Planning and Public Policy
 (Total US$1.26 m, GEF US$1.08 m).
 
The objective of this component is to develop and implement Action Programs for the 
integrated management of aquatic resources (APs) in three sub-basins of the Brazilian 
Amazon, generating replicable experiences that could become permanent public policies, 
with positive impacts on aquatic biodiversity, on the reduction of conflicts among various 
users of natural resources, and on the improvement of local communities’ living and 
working conditions. This component would support: (a) carrying-out of detailed 
diagnostics of each of the three project target areas, and the elaboration and 
implementation of sub-basin Action Programs (APs); (b) the development and 
implementation of institutional mechanisms for integrated management of aquatic 
resources in sub-basins, and (c) the development of a financial strategy and mechanisms 
to provide financial resources for the full implementation of the APs in the long-term. 
 
Component 2 - Demonstration Activities
 (Total US$6.43 m, GEF US$1.78 m).
 
The objective of this component is to generate experiences and lessons learned, including 
new technologies or production systems, on how to incorporate freshwater biodiversity 
concerns into various productive activities, providing inputs for the development of 
Action Programs for integrated management of aquatic resources. This component would 
support: (a) demonstration sub-projects that mainstream freshwater biodiversity in 
productive activities, and (b) other sub-projects, financed under the re-directed baseline, 
that create an enabling environment for the mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity in 
productive activities. Each sub-project would have its own objectives, expected results, 
and a monitoring plan. Sub-projects financed by GEF and by the Brazilian government 
would be defined based on the detailed diagnostics and public consultations to be 
executed under Component 1.  Some priority themes have already been identified during 
the initial consultations and diagnostics carried out during project preparation, but 
additional themes are likely to emerge during the diagnostics and consultations to be 
undertaken in project year one (PY1), as well as during the formulation of the APs during 
PY2 to PY5. Site-specific criteria for sub-project selection under this component will be 
refined and finalized for each project target area during PY1, with stakeholder 
participation during the detailed diagnostic stage. 
 
Page  6
Component 3 - Building Capacity
 (Total US$3.67 m, GEF US$2.56 m)
 
The objective of this component is to prepare stakeholders, especially local ones 
(individuals and institutions), to be able to actively participate in the formulation, 
implementation, and monitoring of strategies and action programs aimed at the 
conservation and sustainable use of freshwater biodiversity and water resources in the 
project areas. This component would support activities that are crucial to the long-term 
sustainability of project results, such as (a)  environmental education, (b) training of rural 
extensionists and local people on sustainable methodologies and technologies, (c) 
institutional and individual training for the formation of partnerships and conflict 
resolution, and (d) support for the establishment of mechanisms for decision making and 
discussion and resolution of conflicts over the use of aquatic resources in the project 
target areas. 
 
Component 4 - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and 
Information Dissemination
 (Total US$5.80 m, GEF US$1.77 m).
 
The objective of this component is to coordinate, manage, and monitor actions developed 
under the scope of the project, foster integration among the various components and with 
other related projects and programs, indicate possible needs for changes in project 
implementation, and disseminate results at local, state, national and international levels. 
Notably it would support the implementation of a project physical-financial monitoring 
system and the development and implementation of an information system on aquatic 
biodiversity (SIBA).  
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 9.95 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
7.20 
 Total 
17.15 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project’s design and implementation strategy is based on the establishment of 
partnerships with other institutions and ongoing projects, including with the Brazilian 
Institute for the Environment and Natural Resources (IBAMA), the Brazilian National 
Water Agency (ANA), and with the Governments of the States of Amazonas, Mato 
Grosso, and Pará.  Partnerships have also been agreed with  (i) the 
Integrated and 
Sustainable Management of Transboundary Water Resources in the Amazon River Basin 
project under preparation by the Amazon Cooperation Treaty Organization – ACTO, with 
support from GEF/UNEP/OAS; (ii) the following MMA projects: Ecological Corridors, 
PROAMBIENTE, National Environmental Program (NEP-II), and Restoration of Water 
Springs and Riparian Areas (DIFLOR); (iii) Mato Grosso’s State Program for the 
Strategic Conservation of Riparian Forests (PEPE); (iv) MCT’s Science and Technology 
Subprogram Phase 2 (Science-2); and (v) with Eletronorte’s Community Plan for the 
Sustainable Development of the Area Downstream from the UHE Tucurui Dam (PPDS-
Page  7
JUS). It is anticipated that other partnerships with public and private institutions would be 
formed at the federal, state, and municipal levels during project implementation. 
 
Partnerships with NGOs, CSOs, and academic and scientific institutions identified during 
project preparation would also be established by means of technical cooperation 
agreements to develop or support actions related to the coordination and implementation 
of various project activities at the local level. The project would also foster partnerships 
with users of natural resources and their organizations. 
 
The Government of Brazil would be the Grant recipient, with the Ministry of 
Environment (MMA) as the Executing Agency (through its existing Secretariat of 
Biodiversity and Forests 
–
SBF). The National Biodiversity Commission (CONABIO
1
)
was selected as the 
Project Steering Committee
 because of its mandate and 
composition, which includes representatives from key ministries, civil society 
organizations, NGOs, and associations of users of natural resources with interests and 
conflicts in the sub-basins where the Project target areas are located. In relation to project 
implementation, CONABIO would: (i) foster the incorporation of experiences and 
lessons learned generated by the project into national public policy, especially sectoral 
ones; (ii) support the identification and monitor the implementation of measures to 
correct problems identified during project implementation; (iii) assess and validate the 
Annual Operational Plans (POAs); and (iv) participate in project evaluation. 
 
A
Project Coordination
 
Unit
 (PCU), constituted by MMA staff, would be located under 
the National Biodiversity Conservation Program Directorate (DCBIO) at SFB/MMA. The 
PCU would be supported in the financial management and procurement functions by 
MMA’s Executive Secretariat (SECEX/MMA), through the Subsecretariat of Planning, 
Budget and Management (SPOA), who would execute such functions. However, for the 
first two years of the project it has been agreed that UNESCO would carry out project 
procurement (see Annexes 7 and 8).  
 
A
State Project Committee
 would be formally established for each sub-basin by the end 
of  PY1 with duties related to: (i) serving as a vehicle for mainstreaming project 
experiences and lessons at the state level for planning and public policies; (ii) supporting 
project implementation through inter-institutional coordination, in particular among 
institutions and programs contributing to the implementation of the re-directed baseline; 
(iii) mediating possible conflicts between or among groups of stakeholders; (iv) 
promoting the replication of the experiences of the project target are in other priority 
areas of the sub-basin; (v) assessing and validating sub-basin Annual Operating Plans 
1
A
more deta
iled description of CONABIO’s mandate and responsibilities is in Annex 6.  CONABIO is comprised of 
representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Supply, Ministry of Science 
and Technology, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Foreign Relations, Ministry of Planning, Budget, and Management, 
Ministry of Agrarian Development, Ministry of National Integration, IBAMA, Brazilian Association of State 
Environmental Entities (ABEMA), National Confederation of Agricultural Workers (CONTAG), Brazilian Society for 
the Progress of Science (SBPC), Brazilian Academy of Science (ABC), Brazilian Forum of NGOs (Environmental and 
Social NGOs), and Coordination of Amazonian Indigenous Organizations (COIAB). CONABIO will invite ANA to 
participate as an invited member in all meetings where AquaBio-related issues are discussed.  Other institutions and 
organizations would also be invited to participate depending upon agenda items to be discussed. 
 
Page  8
(POAs); (vi) reviewing and approving the Sub-Basin Action Programs (APs); (vii) 
reviewing and approving target area demonstration activities (subprojects); and (iv) 
monitoring project execution, and suggesting necessary adjustments. The final 
composition of each State Project Committee would be discussed and agreed with 
stakeholders during the first year; but it is expected that it would have a maximum of 10 
members, selected to represent governmental and nongovernmental stakeholders. 
However, it has been already agreed that the coordinators of the following projects would 
be represented in the relevant State Project Committees: NEP in Mato Grosso, Ecological 
Corridors in Amazonas, and Pará Integrated Development in Pará. When necessary, the 
State Project Committees would have the support of ad-hoc consultants hired by the 
project to provide expert advice on specific issues.  
 
In each of the three sub-basins the MMA would be responsible for 
project execution
,
with support from the following institutions: (i) in the Tocantins sub-basin, –IBAMA and 
the Pará State Secretariat of Environment (SECTAM); (ii) in the Xingu sub-basin, 
IBAMA and the Mato Grosso State Secretariat of Environment – SEMA; (iii) for the 
Negro sub-basin, IBAMA and the  Amazonas State Secretariat of Sustainable 
Development – SDS.  In addition, a 
Local Project Committee
 would be established for 
each Project target area, to be comprised of representatives of existing local 
governmental and non-governmental institutions and organizations and, whenever 
possible, this would include representatives of existing municipal development 
committees. The composition of the Local Project Committees would be agreed at the 
completion of the detailed target area diagnostic by the end of the first year of the project.  
Their responsibilities would be to: (i) serve as a vehicle for mainstreaming project 
experiences and lessons into local level and municipal public policy and planning; (ii) 
prepare and endorse the annual work plan for the target area; (iii) assess and validate the 
APs; (iv) review and endorse the selection of demonstration activities (subprojects); (v) 
supervise and monitor the implementation of project activities; and (vi) mediate existing 
conflicts between and among groups of stakeholders in the Project target area. In  each 
Project target area, the MMA would hire technical specialists to carry out project 
implementation at the local level, under supervision of the PCU and in close coordination 
with the respective sub-basin State Project Committee. The project would also contract 
specialized institutions with established activities at the local level, such as specialized 
NGOs, universities, foundations, or research institutions, for the execution of all or part 
of the planned actions in each respective Project Target Area.  
 
It is also expected that, given the pilot nature of Aquabio, project implementation 
arrangements would continue to evolve during the execution of this process project as 
new stakeholders become involved in project activities over time. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The AquaBio intends to promote a new way of doing business in the Amazon: new 
approaches to policy implementation, partnerships, capacity development, institutions, 
and collaboration. The long-term implementation of integrated management of aquatic 
resources in the Amazon does not therefore require sustained special financing, or an 
Page  9
institutional home, but rather requires that the concepts it promotes continue to be 
developed and mainstreamed in the Brazilian Amazon.  
 
Institutional Sustainability:
 
The proposed project would be institutionally linked to the 
Ministry of Environment (MMA), which has the mandate to ensure the sustainable use 
and conservation of water resources, and of fisheries resources and other aquatic 
biodiversity in the Amazon Basin. In light of the project’s objective to improve the 
decentralized management of aquatic resources through more informed and participatory 
decision-making, the proposed project management structure would promote the 
integration of activities within existing programs, and the mobilization of resources to 
support the continuity of project activities. The new IBAMA field office, in Manaus, of 
the Fisheries Research and Management Center of the Northern Region – CEPNOR, 
would greatly contribute to the project’s institutional sustainability in the medium and 
long term.  
 
Financial sustainability
:
Subcomponent 1.3 would develop and implement a financial 
sustainability strategy to support the execution of selected activities under the APs, 
beyond the life of the project, with pilot financial mechanisms adopted by the end of the 
project. This would be achieved through the following activities: (i) initial identification 
of partners and stakeholders followed by the establishment of a common dialogue; (ii) 
identification of the outcomes and activities to be continued following the closure of the 
Project; (iii) assessment of the potential of the activities identified in (ii) above to attract 
external resources and/or generate financial returns to ensure their financial 
sustainability; (iv) identification and/or design of viable financial mechanisms/models to 
support financial sustainability (e.g., public investment programs and funds, 
environmentally friendly certification schemes, trust funds, etc.); and (v) the development 
and implementation of an action plan to make the relevant financial mechanisms fully 
operational.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Project design considered and incorporated a series of experiences and “lessons 
learned” derived from other relevant projects and initiatives that address issues related to 
the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, especially under the scope of 
the Pilot Program for the Brazilian Rainforest – PPG7 (ProVárzea, ProManejo, 
Ecological Corridors, PD/A, and NRPP). Moreover, the project design also incorporates 
lessons learned from the creation and strengthening of Watershed Committees in the 
South, Southeast, and Northeast of Brazil. Among these, the more relevant lessons 
include: (a) The success and sustainability of initiatives and projects aimed at natural 
resources conservation increase significantly when (i) the various interest groups 
participate in their preparation and implementation, including training activities and 
monitoring the project’s implementation and impacts; (ii) they generate benefits for both 
individuals and the communities involved, including women and youth; and (iii) they 
develop and implement mechanisms that support the continuation of efforts after project 
implementation is completed; (b) Training activities should include opportunities for the 
direct transmission and exchange of  knowledge and experience among beneficiaries, 
Page  10
such as seminars, workshops, field days, and radio programs; (c) Whenever possible, 
project implementation should make use of existing structures, institutions, and 
organizations, strengthening them to better perform their role and/or to take on additional 
responsibilities in the context of project implementation; and (d) Insofar as possible, the 
project strategy should be developed based on the region’s social reality and potential, 
including existing knowledge in local research and teaching institutions. 
 
Experience from other projects, especially the ProVárzea, indicates that effective 
conservation can best be achieved when local communities and resource users are 
organized and take on some of the responsibilities for legislation enforcement at the 
community level after they understand what it takes to keep those resources available to 
them in the long run (sustainable development). 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[X] [ 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Documents available for public consultation in the Project archives at MMA or on the Project 
website http://www.mma.gov.br/port/sbf/index.cfm: 
 
ƒ
Project Concept Note, PDF-B Project Proposal, and AquaBio GEF Project Brief; 
ƒ
Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan; 
ƒ
Indigenous People Strategy; 
ƒ
Agreement on MMA/UNESCO technical cooperation for implementation of PDF-
B
activities; 
ƒ
AquaBio PDF-B Progress Reports; 
ƒ
Document on the “Criteria for Selection of Project Sub-basins”; 
ƒ
TORs for consultants hired for project preparation; 
ƒ
Report on Environmental Diagnostics of the Rio Negro sub-basin; 
ƒ
Report on Socioeconomic Diagnostics of the Rio Negro sub-basin; 
ƒ
Report on Environmental Diagnostics of the Rio Xingu sub-basin; 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' 
claims on the disputed areas
 
Page  11
ƒ
Report on Socioeconomic Diagnostics of the Rio Xingu sub-basin; 
ƒ
Report on Institutional Organization and Capacity; 
ƒ
Report on the proposal for the Project Training and Information Dissemination 
Strategy; 
ƒ
Report on a proposal for the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Component; 
ƒ
Minutes of the First Ordinary Meeting of the AquaBio Steering Committee; 
ƒ
Minutes on the meeting between AquaBio/SBF and representatives from the 
Environmental Institutions (OEMAs) of Amazonian States; 
ƒ
Reports on field visits by Project consultants and MMA staff members;  
ƒ
Report on the current status of Fisheries Resources in the Brazilian Amazon; 
ƒ
Report of the Public Consultation that took place in Novo Airão, AM; 
ƒ
Report of the meeting on the status of the headwaters of the Xingu River, 
Canarana, MT. 
ƒ
Meeting on the Xingu headwaters, part of an awareness raising campaign by ISA 
(website of Instituto Socioambiental).
Page  12
11. Contact points 
 
Ms. Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga 
Sr. Environmental Spec. 
Tel: 41 (22) 748-1015 
Fax: 41 (22) 748-1030 
Email: 
mbraga@worldbank.org
or 
 
Ms. Adriana Moreira 
Sr. Biodiversity Specialist 
Tel: 1 (202) 473-1662 
Fax: 1 (202) 522-3132 
Email: 
amoreira@worldbank.org
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
