                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: NCO2205



                      NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION
                           (GEF GRANT TF056255)

                                  ON A GRANT

         FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.18 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                      FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                    FOR THE

           INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT OF AQUATIC RESOURCES

                           IN THE AMAZON PROJECT



                                September 25, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective September 5, 2012)

                Currency Unit      =    Real (R$)
                     R$ 1.00       =    US$ 0.49
                   US$ 1.00        =    R$ 2.04

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 to December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AP            Action Program for Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources
AquaBio       Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon
ARPA          Amazon Region Protected Areas Project
CAS           World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
CONABIO       National Biodiversity Commission
FUNAI         National Indigenous Foundation
GEF           Global Environmental Facility
GOB           Government of Brazil
IBAMA         Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
              Resources
MMA           Ministry of Environment
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PROBIO        National Biodiversity Project
ProManejo     Forest Resources Management Project
ProVarzea     Brazil Amazon Floodplain Natural Resources Management Project
QER           Quality Enhancement Review
SBF           Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests-MMA
SIBA          Information System on Aquatic Biodiversity
UNESCO        United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization




            Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy
            Country Director:          Deborah L. Wetzel
            Sector Manager:            Karin Erika Kemper
            Project Team Leader:       Adriana Moreira
            NCO Team Leader:           Emilia Battaglini
                                BRAZIL
             INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT OF AQUATIC RESOURCES
                        IN THE AMAZON PROJECT



                                                     CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .......................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance .............................................................................. 6
  4. Assessment of Recipient Performance........................................................................ 7
  5. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 7
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............... 9
  Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................... ..11
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                               Integrated Management
Country:                Brazil                     Project Name:               of Aquatic Resources in
                                                                               the Amazon (AquaBio)
Project ID:             P066535                    L/C/TF Number(s):           TF-56255
NCO Date:               12/19/2011
                                                                               MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                        Borrower:
                                                                               ENVIRONMENT
Original Total
                        USD 7.18M                  Disbursed Amount:           USD 0.71M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.71M
Environmental Category: B                          GEF Focal Area B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Environment - MMA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/15/1999      Effectiveness:           02/28/2007             02/28/2007
Appraisal:             01/27/2006      Closing:                 31/08/2012             03/26/2012
Approval:              06/13/2006

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                          Not Applicable
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                 Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     20
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      60
Sub-national government administration                                20




                                                   i
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                          25
Environmental policies and institutions                               13
Land administration and management                                    25
Participation and civic engagement                                    13
Water resource management                                             24

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At NCO                            At Approval
Vice President:          Hasan A. Tuluy                          Pamela Cox
Country Director:        Deborah Wetzel                          John Briscoe
Sector Manager:          Karin Erika Kemper                      Abel Mejia
Project Team Leader:     Adriana Moreira                         Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga
NCO Team Leader:         Emilia Battaglini


F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1    12/30/2006          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    05/21/2007      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  3    11/20/2007      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.70
  4    06/19/2008      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.70
  5    12/12/2008      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.70
  6    06/04/2009      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.70
  7    12/19/2009      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.70
                            Moderately                     Moderately
  8    06/14/2010                                                                          1.02
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  9    02/23/2011         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    1.02
 10    08/02/2011         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    1.02
 11    04/27/2012         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    0.71




                                                 ii
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

1.1. Country and sector background

The Amazon basin covers an area of approximately 7,000,000 km², of which about 58%
(4,100,000 km²) is located in Brazil. From a biodiversity perspective, the Amazon basin
is unparalleled; it is home to the world's richest assemblages of freshwater flora and
fauna, including approximately one third of the world's entire freshwater ichthyofauna.
Many of the region's economic activities are based on the use of aquatic resources, which
are increasingly at risk due to the uncontrolled and poorly planned expansion of high-
impact activities in the basin.

The Amazon’s aquatic ecosystems, its natural resources, and human communities that
depend on them, are increasingly at risk from a number of threats, including: (i) direct
use of aquatic resources at unsustainable levels through hunting and fishing, leading to
the over-exploitation of some species; (ii) direct contamination of rivers by increased
dumping of organic and solid waste from expanding urban areas and mining activities;
(iii) changes in land use in upland areas (deforestation, expanding cattle ranching,
urbanization); (iv) direct habitat conversion of riparian ecosystems from expansion of
water buffalo grazing in floodplains (varzeas), agriculture and urbanization and; (v)
changes in flood and hydrological regimes due to infrastructure developments.

Despite efforts from the Federal Government and Amazonian states in recent years to
respond to such problems, both at policy and project levels, a series of constraints have
made it difficult to effectively address the threats to the Amazon Basin: (i) insufficiently
articulated public policies across sectors to effectively address threats; (ii) weak
organizational and institutional capacity at the basin, state, and local levels to deal with
these issues in a participatory and integrated manner; (iii) insufficient availability of
information that policy makers and resource managers need to make good decisions and;
(iv) insufficient knowledge about alternatives for the sustainable use of land and aquatic
resources, especially those that generate economic benefits for local communities while
also generating positive impacts on aquatic biodiversity.

The AquaBio Project was aimed at testing the development and implementation of an
innovative approach to the conservation and sustainable use of aquatic ecosystems in the
Lower and Middle Rio Negro, Upper Xingu, and Lower Tocantins sub-basins that,
together with the Floodplain Natural Resources Management Project (ProVarzea), would
provide a representative sample of Amazonian aquatic ecosystems and problems that
impact them.

The Project sought to address various issues that directly or indirectly affect the
sustainability and conservation of aquatic biodiversity and water resources in the
Brazilian Amazon, operating on three major fronts that were identified as constraints for
long-term conservation and sustainable use of aquatic resources: (i) strengthening the
institutional capacity of various stakeholder groups to participate in decision-making
processes; (ii) supporting the creation or strengthening of discussion fora at the local,



                                             1
regional (sub-basin), national, and international levels and; (iii) learning from the testing,
on a demonstrative basis, of new methodologies and technologies for the restoration and
sustainable use of natural resources, and proposing the implementation of successful ones
on a larger scale.

1.2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The AquaBio Project was under preparation from 1999 to 2006 and in supervision from
2007 to 2012. The project was one of the few Bank operations focused on freshwater
ecosystems, and was considered one of the elements in the Bank'’s strategy for re-
engagement in the Amazon. The project supported a major pillar of the Bank’s Regional
Environment Strategy of mainstreaming environment across sectors, and contributed to
two of three of the Country Assistance Strategy’s long-term objectives: (i) improvement
of water quality and water resources management; and (ii) sustainable management of
land, forests, and biodiversity.

Its emphasis on the mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity considerations into sector
policies sought to benefit from the Bank's existing experience in facilitating public policy
discussion and in assuming the role of mediator among regional, national, sub-national,
and local actors in seeking consensus for the solution of multiple demands on "shared"
natural resources.

Mainstreaming of environmental concerns into sector policies was being supported in
Brazil by a large Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability with an
associated Technical Assistance Loan. AquaBio would also complement and support the
actions of other existing Bank projects in the Brazilian Amazon at the time, such as the
Floodplain Natural Resources Management Project (ProVarzea), Forest Resources
Management Project (ProManejo), Ecological Corridors Project, and Amazon Region
Protected Areas Project (ARPA).

1.3. Project Development Objectives (PDO)

The Project development objective was to support the mainstreaming of a multi-
stakeholder, integrated management approach to the conservation and sustainable use of
freshwater biodiversity in public policies and programs in the Brazilian Amazon River
Basin. This would be achieved in part through generation and dissemination of sub-
regional experiences that promote and facilitate the adoption of an integrated
management approach in the whole Amazon Basin. The global environmental objective
was to reduce threats to the integrity of freshwater ecosystems in the Brazilian Amazon
and assure the conservation and sustainable use of its freshwater biodiversity of global
importance.

1.4. Components

The project comprised the following 4 components:




                                              2
Component 1: Planning and Public Policy (Total US$1.26 m, GEF US$l.06 m). The
objective of this component was to develop and implement Action Programs (APs) for
the integrated management of aquatic resources in three sub-basins of the Brazilian
Amazon, generating replicable experiences that could become permanent public policies,
with positive impacts on aquatic biodiversity, on the reduction of conflicts among various
users of natural resources, and on the improvement of local communities’ living and
working conditions. This component would support: (a) carrying-out of detailed
diagnostics of each of the three project target areas, and the elaboration and
implementation of sub-basin APs; (b) the development and implementation of
institutional mechanisms for integrated management of aquatic resources in sub-basins
and; (c) the development of a financial strategy and mechanisms to provide financial
resources for the full implementation of the APs in the long-term.

Component 2: Demonstration Activities (Total US$6.43 m, GEF US$l.78 m). The
objective of this component was to generate experiences and lessons learned, including
new technologies or production systems, on how to incorporate freshwater biodiversity
concerns into various productive activities, providing inputs for the development of
Action Programs for integrated management of aquatic resources. This component would
support: (a) demonstration sub-projects that mainstream freshwater biodiversity in
productive activities and; (b) other activities, financed under the re-directed baseline, that
create an enabling environment for the mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity in
productive activities.

Component 3: Building Capacity (Total US$3.67 m, GEF US$2.56 m). The objective of
this component was to prepare stakeholders, especially local ones (individuals and
institutions), to be able to actively participate in the formulation, implementation, and
monitoring of strategies and action programs aimed at the conservation and sustainable
use of freshwater biodiversity and water resources in the project areas. This component
would support activities that are crucial to the long-term sustainability of project results,
such as (a) environmental education, (b) training of rural extensionists and local people
on sustainable methodologies and technologies, (c) institutional and individual training
for the formation of partnerships and conflict resolution and; (d) support for the
establishment of decision making mechanisms and conflicts resolution over the use of
aquatic resources in the project target areas.

Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation and Information
Dissemination (Total US$5.80 m, GEF US$1.77 m). The objective of this component was
to coordinate, manage, and monitor actions developed under the scope of the project,
foster integration among the various components and with other related projects and
programs, indicate possible needs for changes in project implementation, and disseminate
results at local, state, national and international levels. It would also support the
implementation of a project physical-financial monitoring system and the development
and implementation of an Information System on Aquatic Biodiversity (SIBA).

The four components would be integrated at the sub-basin level through the following
main activities in each sub-basin: (i) a diagnostic of the main threats and of the barriers to



                                              3
address them, (ii) dissemination of information, training, and a participatory consensus
building process involving resource users and government institutions for elaboration of a
plan for the conservation and management of aquatic resources and; (iii) establishment of
a governance strategy for the long-term implementation of such plan, including a
framework for conflict mediation and resolution. This approach sought to contribute to
the implementation of the National Biodiversity Policy as it supported a decentralized,
inter-sectoral approach to the management of aquatic ecosystems, and incorporated
economic, social, cultural (traditional knowledge), and environmental dimensions in the
formulation and implementation of project supported action programs.

1.5. Costs and funding

Total project cost was estimated at US$17.13 million. Financing included a Global
Environment Facility (GEF) grant of US$7.18 million and recipient co-financing in the
amount of US$9.95 million, of which: (i) US$6.78 million was from the Government of
Brazil; (ii) US$2.02 million was from re-directed baseline; (iii) US$0.48 million was
from the Government of Mato Grosso; (iv) US$0.59 million was from Government of
Amazonas and; (v) US$0.08 million was from project beneficiaries.

1.6. Implementation arrangements

In its initial design the project was to be implemented by the Ministry of Environment
(MMA) as the Executing Agency through its Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests
(SBF). In March 2010 the project was restructured, designating the Brazilian Institute for
the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) as the new Executing
Agency. Other partners included the National Indigenous Foundation (FUNAI) and the
state environmental agencies of Amazonas, Mato Grosso and Pará.

The National Biodiversity Commission (CONABIO) was selected to serve as the Project
Steering Committee, given its mandate and composition, which includes representatives
from key ministries, civil society organizations, and representatives of sectors that use
biodiversity resources.

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), constituted initially by MMA staff, was
established within the Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests (SFB/MMA). It was agreed
that for the first two years of the project, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) would carry out procurement functions under a
Technical Cooperation Agreement with MMA. With the shift of project implementation
to IBAMA, UNESCO’s mandate was extended until end of project.

For each sub-basin, State Project Committees would be formally established by the end
of the first year of project implementation. These committees’ responsibilities included,
among others: (i) Serving as a vehicle for mainstreaming project experiences and lessons
at the state level for planning and public policies; (ii) Assessing and validating sub-basin
Annual Operating Plans; (iii) Reviewing and approving the Sub-Basin Action Programs
(APs) and; (iv) Monitoring project execution, and suggesting necessary adjustments.



                                             4
In addition, Local Project Committees would be established for each project target area,
and would be comprised of representatives of existing local governmental and
nongovernmental institutions and organizations and, whenever possible, include
representatives of existing municipal development committees to facilitate later
mainstreaming of project experiences into municipal public policies.

1.7. Risk analysis

Assessments that evaluated economic, financial, technical, fiduciary, social,
environmental, and safeguards issues were conducted at the time of appraisal. Overall
project risk was assessed as Medium. No controversial or reputational issues that could
have posed risks for the Bank were identified.

Critical risks identified at the time of appraisal included: (i) lack of coordination among
federal and state level actors; (ii) low capacity of local communities and indigenous
groups to propose and execute activities; (iii) insufficient institutional capacity for project
implementation at federal and state levels; (iv) federal budget constraints and; (v) change
in federal and state administrations. All risks were considered moderate in view of
mitigation measures.

1.8. Quality at entry

The project was reviewed extensively during preparation, most notably through the
Quality Enhancement Review (QER) of February 2005 and the Decision Meeting of
November 2005, but also through the GEF Secretariat technical reviews. The Decision
Meeting highlighted that the institutional and implementation arrangements appeared
complex and not fully defined, but they were also considered as reflecting the diversity of
institutional capacity and interest in freshwater biodiversity issues. The Decision Meeting
review also confirmed that the project’s main idea - developing mechanisms for
involving stakeholders in addressing conservation and sustainable use of freshwater
ecosystems in the Amazon - was sound and that the project supported Brazil’s
biodiversity conservation and geographic priorities and the Bank engagement strategy.
In retrospect, it appears that the quality of the review process was weak and failed to
recognize that the project risk analysis was inadequate.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.

The Project was approved by the Board on June 13, 2006. The GEF Grant agreement was
signed on September 15, 2006 and became effective on February 28, 2007. The project
closed on March 26, 2012, 5 months before original date of August 31, 2012, with the
undisbursed amount of USD 6.47 Million, equivalent to 90.1% of original project
funding. Critical factors that led to the decision to proceed with cancellation include:

MMA’s low level of capacity, commitment and leadership significantly delayed the
establishment and functioning of the Project Coordination Unit. Despite strong



                                              5
engagement at State and local levels, MMA’s support and involvement remained uneven
and generally inadequate throughout the first two years of implementation. The PCU,
once established, was chronically understaffed, with high turnover of staff and eventually
the loss of the Project Coordinator in June 2009.

A lengthy project restructuring negotiation to transfer implementation
responsibilities to IBAMA further delayed the beginning of project implementation.
To increase efficiency and improve disbursement the government proposed to transfer
project implementation (including some procurement responsibilities) to the more
adequately staffed IBAMA while MMA would retain the dialogue and policy
coordination with state governments. Negotiations between the ministries of Environment,
Planning, Finance and the Bank protracted well into the third year of project life. Very
few activities were implemented and less than 10% of the grant was disbursed by the end
of the third year.

Project implementation was further hindered by IBAMA’s own internal
reorganization and change of leadership that occurred just after the project
restructure was approved. Government and Bank signed an amendment to the grant
agreement to reflect the revised project implementation arrangements in March 2010.
However, the transition in responsibilities from MMA to IBAMA stalled for several
months and with the change in IBAMA’s management the level of staff and support
originally envisaged did not materialize. The inaction at the federal level impacted
negatively on the ability of state and local governments to retain technical staff. No
activities were implemented after project restructuring and project implementation ratings
were downgraded to unsatisfactory.

Conditions of effectiveness of the amended Grant Agreement were not met.
Subsidiary agreements on technical cooperation with each of the states and the contract
with the financial agent for the execution of sub-projects were not signed prior to the
effectiveness deadline of June 30, 2011. In addition, several provisions of the Grant
Agreement, including maintaining a functioning and adequately staffed PCU, were also
not met, causing implementation and disbursement to stall. After several unsuccessful
efforts to address the above issues, the government eventually decided to proceed with
the cancellation of the grant.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The project was designed to pilot innovative bottom-up mechanisms for stakeholder
involvement in conservation and sustainable use of freshwater ecosystems and was
considered highly relevant for Brazil’s aquatic ecosystems and the people that depend on
them. Project preparation was characterized by a long but comprehensive participatory
consultation process. Close and productive relationships were established with MMA,
state governments and other partners.




                                            6
However, despite a long preparation phase, the project design had some shortcomings: it
overestimated MMA’s commitment and capacity to internalize the aquatic biodiversity
conservation agenda within the institution and failed to properly evaluate the risks
associated with government internal bureaucracy; capacity and readiness to manage and
implement a highly complex project; and level of commitment. In addition, changes in
the Bank team composition mid-way through the life of the project reduced the
momentum and affected the ability of the Bank to provide continued support to the client.
After the project was approved the Bank team worked intensively with the government,
first to start project’s implementation and then to assist with the project restructuring.
Despite significant efforts implementation never took off fully and the project
performance, already poor from the onset, worsened over time. Overall the Bank
performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory due to shortcomings in the preparation
phase, particularly in assessing the risks associated with project complexity, capacity and
institutional and implementation arrangements.

4. Assessment of Recipient Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

While the Brazilian government has successfully promoted the biodiversity conservation
agenda and has been very supportive of the project and its objectives, in practice within
MMA the theme of conservation of aquatic biodiversity was weakly developed and was
not considered a priority. The lack of interest and commitment at the federal government
level translated into limited ownership and engagement and weak coordination between
federal and state levels during project preparation and implementation. Although the
project enjoyed the support of actors and stakeholders at state and local levels, it did not
have a champion at the federal level that was committed to implementing the project
from the beginning and supporting its restructuring later on. Attempts at modifying the
project’s institutional and implementation arrangements, including transferring the
project to IBAMA, were not followed through by the government and remained at the
planning stage. On this basis, the Borrower’s performance is rated unsatisfactory.

5. Lessons Learned

Project design needs to be based on a more accurate assessment of the
implementation capacity and readiness of government. In hindsight, the project would
have benefited from a less complex and more flexible structure and mechanism to
support the subprojects, to be more aligned with government execution and management
capacity and level of experience, and to be more compatible with a small grant aimed at
generation and dissemination of sub-regional experiences that could be scaled up.
Following this experience, the Bank adjusted its approach in Brazil and opted for projects
such as PROBIO II and ARPA II, with less complex structural designs and with stronger
emphasis on institutional capacity at the federal level in the area of large-scale
biodiversity conservation.




                                             7
Project teams must apply greater realism in defining project objectives. The project
global environmental objective of “assur[ing] the conservation and sustainable use of the
Brazilian Amazon freshwater biodiversity? was overambitious and unrealistic in light of
the complex local environment characterized by conflicting interests and a multitude of
pressures on such resources.

Greater rigor is needed in carrying out risk analysis of Natural Resource
Management projects. The inadequate and insufficient risk analysis carried out for the
project and the failure of the different review bodies and processes to pick up on this
weakness hindered execution from project start. Risks analysis should be comprehensive
and scrupulous particularly in operations with complex structure and/or piloting new
approaches.

Commitment to the project objectives is stronger among those that are more likely
to benefit. The project enjoyed much support at state and local levels, where most of the
activities were supposed to happen, however the primary responsibility for leading
project implementation was with the government at the federal level. This misalignment,
coupled with weak institutional capacity, created a bottleneck and lack of engagement.
Projects are more likely to be successful if the responsibility for project implementation
and flow of funding are closer to where the project interventions are.

Remedial actions to poor project performance, including the decision of cancelling
an operation need to be taken quickly to be cost-effective. It took five years and ten
supervision missions to decide to cancel this operation. During this period the
government and the Bank made several efforts to improve the project performance at a
high cost for both. Despite these efforts the project disbursed less than 10% and achieved
very little on the ground.




                                            8
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
Names                          Title                              Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga   Senior Environmental Specialist    AFTEN    Task Team Leader
Judith M. Lisansky             Sr Anthropologist                  LCSSO    Social
Graciela Lituma                Sr Rural Development Specialist    LCSER    Rural
Mariana M. Montiel             Senior Counsel                     LEGLA    Lawyer
Robert Schneider               Lead Sustainable Dev. Economist    LCSES    Economist
Luciano Wuerzius               Procurement Specialist             LCSPT    Procurement
Claudio Mittelstaedt           Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM    Fin. Management
Daniella ZillerArruda
                               Program Assistant                  LCC5C Admin. Support
Karagiannis

Supervision/NCO
Adriana Moreira                Senior Environmental Specialist    LCSEN    Task Team Leader
Judith M. Lisansky             Sr Anthropologist                  LCSSO    Social
Mariana M. Montiel             Senior Counsel                     LEGLA    Lawyer
Joao Vicente Novaes Campos     Sr Financial Management Specialist LCSFM    Fin. Management
Maria João P. Ribei Kaizeler   Financial Management Specialist LEGLE       Fin. Management
Frederico Rabello T. Costa     Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT    Procurement
Sinue Aliram                   Procurement Specialist             LCSPT    Procurement
Luciano Wuerzius               Procurement Specialist             LCSPT    Procurement
Paula Silva P. de Freitas      Operations Analyst                 LCSEN    Water Resources
Guadalupe Romero Silva         Consultant                         LCSSD    Environmental
Agnes Velloso                  Consultant                         LCSSD    Safeguards
Emilia Battaglini              Senior Environmental Specialist    LCSEN    NCO Team Leader
Barbara Brakarz                Conultant                          LCSEN    NCO Co-author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                                8.5                     51.13
  FY01                                                6.9                     41.51
  FY02                                                3.7                     22.10
  FY03                                                3                       18.25
  FY04                                                6.8                     41.05
  FY05                                               13                       77.85
  FY06                                               12.7                     76.64
Total:                                               54.6                    328.53
Supervision/NCO


                                                 9
  FY00         0      0.00
  FY01         0      0.00
  FY02         0      0.00
  FY03         0      0.00
  FY04         0      0.00
  FY05         0      0.00
  FY06         0      0.00
  FY07         8.4   50.35
  FY08         7.3   44.04
Total:        15.7   94.39




         10
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents


1. Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon Project Appraisal
   Document (PAD), Report No. 36172-BR (May 15 2006)
2. Global Environmental Facility Trust Fund Grant TF056255 (September 15, 2006)
3. Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR) No. 2048 (23 Feb 2011), No. 3985
   (2 Aug 2011), and No. 6381 (2 Aug 2011).
4. Office Memorandum, July 6, 2011- Recommendation for Suspension of
   Disbursements
5. Letter from World Bank Country Director to Executive Secretary, Ministry of
   Environment, communicating need to cancel project (26 April 20110
6. Letter from Executive Secretary of Ministry of Environment to World Bank Brazil
   Country Director requesting AquaBio to be closed (September 15 2011).
7. Letter from Executive Secretary of Ministry of Environment to Secretary of
   International Affairs, Ministry of Planning, on project performance assessment (4
   November 2011).
8. Supervision Aide Memoires 5-7 May 2009 and 8-10 December 2009.
9. Latin America and Caribbean Regional Environment Strategy (June 2002).
10. Brazil Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2007.




                                           11
