Document rf
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10808
PROJECT COMILETION REPORT
MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TlSSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 1602-MOR)
JUNE 30, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Offi-e
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Dirham (DH)
Appraisal year average                US$1.00 - DH 4.5
Implementation average                US$1.00 - DH 7.3
Completion year, average              US$1.00 - DH 8.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CLCA        Local Agricultural Credit Bank
CNCA        National Agricultural Credit Bank
CRED        Regional Commitment and Expenses Comptroller
DE          Directorate of Livestock
DPA         Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
DPAE        Directorate of Planning and Economiz Affairs
DPV         Directorate of Crop Production
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organisation/Cooperative Programme
FKT         Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project
IAV         Agronomic and Veterinary Institute Hassan II
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INRA        National Irstitute for Agronomic Research
MARA        Ministry of Agriculture
M&E         Monitoring & Evaluation
MTSAP       Medium Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
ONEP        National Bureau for Potable Water
PCR         Project Completion Report
SAP         Special Action Program
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
T&V         Training and Visit
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR OF BORRO-WER
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
-sc. of Directw-CG.wl
Opratmn Evaltuawn
June 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on MOROCCO
Fes-Karia-Tissa Airiculture Proiect (Loan 1602-MOR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Morocco - Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Projdct (Loan 1602-
HOR)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 1602-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pat* No.
PREFACE        .       .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .   .  1
EVALUATION SU OARY  . a  .  . .   .                                              iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .              1
1.   Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
2.   Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        1
3.   Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . .             2
4.   Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             3
5.   Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .    . . .           4
6.   Project Results and Impact   ...              . . . . .          .       6
8.   Bank Performance   . . .               .  .  .. . . . . . . . .         11
9.   Borrower Performance   a .                                              13
10.   Project Relationship   . . . . .                                        13
11.   Consultancy Services   . . . . . .   .   .   .  . . . . . . .           14
12.   Project Documentation and Data    .    . .          . . . . . . .       14
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .             15
A.   Confirmatio-, of Factual Data Contained in Parts I and III,
Remarks on Analysis Contained in Part I  . . . . . . . . .            15
B.   Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        . .....           16
C.   Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . ...........                         16
D.   Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             17
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORM&TION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             19
Tables   1.  Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...            19
2.  Project Timetable  . . .   . . . . . . . . .  .....                 20
3.  Loan Disbursements   . . . . .                                      21
4.  Project Implementation:  Project Implementation Ratios .            23
5.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            25
6.  Project Results   .  . . . . . .   . ...... . . . . .               27
7.  Status of Major Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .           29
8.  Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . 3 . . . . . . . . .                30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
(Loan 1602-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project for which Loan 1602-MOR for an amount of US$65 million was
approved in June 1978. The loan became effective in February 1979. Originally
expected to be implemented over a six-year period, the loan was actually closed
with e four-year delav in June 1990, efter three extensions had been granted.
Actual disbursements totalled US$36.3 million or 56 percent of the originally
approved loan amount.
This PCR (Parts I and III) was prepared by staff of the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP), who visited Morocco from February 6 to 22, 1991.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The PCR is based on a draft document prepared by the Government of the
Kingdom of Morocco, as well as on project documentation such as the Appraisal
Report, Loan Agreement, project correspondence, supervision reports, etc.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULT'JRE PROJECT
(LOAN 1602-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.        Throughout the. 1970's, the Bank pursued a policy dialogue with
the Government with regard to the rainfed agricultural sector. This effort
led to the conclusion that the sector warranted a higher priority in the
investment program and subsequently led to the adoption, in the mid-1980's,
of the Medium Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTSAP). The
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project (FKT) was the first of a series of four
rural development projects each specifically designed to de"elop and test
options for stimulating growth and increasing production in various
environments representative of Morocco's rainfed areas.
2.        The latter part of the implementation period of the project
coincided with a singularly difficult per cd for Morocco's economy during
which the financial and budgetary situation deteriorated increasingly.
This prompted the Government to impose exceptional financial restrictions
and undertake a range of adjustment policies.  The FKT project was
seriously affected by these restrictions. The first five years of the
project implementation period also saw the US$ exchange rate appreciate
dramatically against most other currencies and in particular against the
Dirham.  The exchange rate evolved from around Dh 4.30/US$ at the time of
appraisal to around Dh 10/US$ in 1985.
3.        The project implementation period furthermore witnessed some of
the worst possible climatic conditions. This obviously affected the
agricultural component. The actual results achieved are all the more
remarkable as they were accomplished under these adverse climatic
conditions.
Project Obiectives and Description
4.        The primary objective of the project was to improve the living
stande-ds of some 34,000 farm families who cultivated 256,000 ha or 96% of
the arable land in the project area. This was to be achieved principally
through increasing agricultural production and farm incomes. Improved
living standards would furthermore be pursued by complementing increased
farm incomes by a series of infrastructural investments.
i



- iv -
5.        In order to attain its objectives the project would consist of
three main components. Firstly, an agricultural development component
which included the reorganization and strergthening of the extension
services, through the provision of housing, equipment, farm management
training, incren-ental short-term credit ard improvements in the supply of
farm inputs. Secondly, soil and water conservation measures on a trial
basis and, thirdly, an infrastructural development component including the
construction of roads, two potable water supply systems as well as primary
,chool classrooms and some health facilities.
Implementation Experience
6.        The project suffered serious implementation delays due to the
difficult budgetary situation.  The project was completed with a five-year
delay in 1990.   However, most of the delays concerned the infrastructural
component, while most of the core agricultural developmient component had
been completed by FY87.  The project cost was IViiLIaily estimated it
around Dh 694.5 mi'llion (US$161.5 million) in nominal values. The actual
cost is estimated at around Dh 597.7 million or around US$86.75 million.
This difference in US$ cost is mainly due to the US$/DH appreciation.
7.        In 1987, it was decided to undertake a Special Action Program
(SAP) aimed at lessening the effects of the budgetary difficulties and US$
appreciation. The basic features of the SAP were an increas. in the Bank
disbursement percentages and a general down-scaling of a number of
infrastructural investments. The SAP had a beneficial impact on project
imolementation as it allowed to adjust the scope of the project to the
budgetary realities.
8.        The project benefitted perhaps most from a competent and constant
project management which resulted in a good understanding of the project's
goals and objectives. Another factor that greatly benefitted
implementation was the fact that the basic project implementabiDn
procedures were generally well designed and were wholly grafted onto
existing institutional arrangements.
Project Results
9.        The project established an improved extension system in the
project area. Over the years, the agricultural centers strengthened by the
project came to function as a genuine nucleus of the basic support services
available to farmers in the area. The ser-ices include farm input supply
stores, credit counters and farm machinery shops, in addition to the
"classical" extension services. The ratio of extension agents was
considerably improved from the 1 to 1200 farmers at the start of the
project to around 1 to 350 presently.
10.       The innovative agricultural credit lending criteria which were
introduced in the project area resulted in a rapid increase in lending
volume from a total short-term portfolio of around Dh 2.2 million to 2,383



farmers in 1979/80 to Dh 22 million to 11,090 farmers in 1982. There is no
doubt that this rapid increase in short-term credit contributed
subatz 7tially to the rapid uptake of the imp-oved packages promoted by the
exten..on service.  It is also obvious, however, that this sizable increase
occurred too rapidly to be handled efficiently by the local banks' existing
infrastructure.
11.       As a result of the above activities and notwithstanding the long
drought period, productivity and agricultural production have increased.
Input supply and improved seed use expanded significantly. Yields of durum
wheat increased from around 1.0 ton/ha to around 1.5 con/ha and those of
bread wheat from 1.7 ton/ha to around 2.3 ton/ha at present. These yield
increases are not entirely as anticipated by the SAR, but this should be
seen in the light of the prolonged drought period and the rather high SAR
projections. The project was also successful in establishing a cover of
tree crops - mostly olives - on 14,000 ha or 6,000 ha more tlan foreseen
in the SAR.  Afforestation and the estabiishment of a vegetative cover on
waste land prone to erosion was less :uccessful, mostly due to constraints
of a socio-economic na:ure.
12.       The project constructed 252 km of tertiary roads. This programme
had a noticeable positive impact on the project area. It is reported that
the all-year, all-weather accessibility of the area resulted in an active
private trade in basic agricultural inputs such as fertilizers and provided
a ready market for agricultural produce. Also, 68 primary school
classrooms were constructed as well as 22 dining halls and 140 teacher
houses.  All educational facilities have been put in operation and it is
reported that primary school attendance has increased by 12% in the project
area as a result of these investments. The health component was only
partially completed.
l
13.       With respect to the two rural drinking water supply systems, both
systems are essentially completed. Neither system has, however, so far
benefitted the population, due to delays in decision regarding the
management of the system. There is no doubt, however, that once the system
is put in operation, the entire population of the 280 communities involved
will benefit greatly from the system.
14.       Notwithstandlng the near absence of reliable data on project
impact, an indicative economic analysis was carried out on the agricultural
component. The analysis results in an ERR of 9%. This compares to 21%
estimated at the time of appraisal. This result shows that the component
was relatively successful, but that the return on investment suffered from
the longer than anticipated implementation period as a result of local
funding difficulties.



- v: -
16.       One of the most interesting aspects of the project has been the
testing of innovative approaches to rainfed agriculLural development. A
n>..ber of these reatures have been found useful, and have, albeit somewhat
altered, been adopted in other programs and dev%lopment activities.  The
first, and possibly the most important, feature has been the innovative
approach to short-term credit to small-holders. The project abandoned the
practice of determining credit levels onl the basis of the "fiscal income'
and adopted the principle of allowing credit on the basis of the real
credit needs and repayment capacity of the individual. Although the system
was altered on several occasions, the principle has been adopted in all
other projects supported by the Bank.
17.       The second important innovative feature of the project. concerned
the extension approach. Based on the '±&V approach, the system was found to
be a big improvement on the more lax approach used heretofore and the
principle has been generally adopted. The syb em is presently being
implemented in the Bank-assisted `.%-ALculcura2 Extensior, snd Research
project". Regarding the conservation components, it was mound that the
farmers'participation approach proved essential for the component's
success.
Sustainability
15.       The sustainability issue of FKT may be examined from at least two
points of view; firstly, the sustainability of the activities in the
project area, pursuing the increased welfare of the population and,
secondly, the adoption and replication of pilot project activities
elsewhere in Morocco.  Regarding the activities in the project area, the
,extension and infrastructural developments (roads, research and educational
facilities) were constructed within the existing Government structure and
they have been fully assimilated in the operating budget. It is therefore
expected that they will continue to be maintained and :o generate benefits.
18.       Lessons learned.  The experience with this project shows that:
(i)    essential studies such as for the rural drinking water
supply system, which turned out to be a large and complex
infrastructural investment, should be carried out at the
project design stage. Also, the project would have
benefitted from earlier"'hiring of consultants.
(ii)   the type of long-term development effort which is required
for rainfed agricultural development may be more suitably
implemented in the form of a time-slice of a longer-term
development programme;
(iii) a well-designed and simple-to-use M&E component is
essential as a management and, even more'so, as an
evaluation tcol.  This is especially the case in a complex
project with a number of pilot features, which needed to
be evaluated before being applied elsewhere. It should be
in place before project implementation begins (say by loan
effectiveness);



- vii -
(iv)   continuity of capable project management, together with
government support, are crucial factors to project
success. Key posts should be filled by competent staff
befure Sank loans are made effective;
(v)    the expansion of credit operations must be accompanied by
an adequate reinfcrcement and expansion of the credit
instituticn's irfras:ructure and staff;
(vi)   where national agencies (in this case ONEP) are involved
in the provision of services under agricultural projects,
they should be on board by loan effectiveness or committed
by a dated covenant;
(vii)  integration of social infrastructural components (water
supply schemes, roads, schools) with agriculture
davelopment has a significant impact on improving the
well-being of rural populations as they increase farmers'
motivation. However, this integration complicates design
and, with the need to coordinate different ministries,
makes implementation more difficult.
' (viii)      five years is too short an implementation period for
projects of this type and complexity. Project duration
should be fixed according to disbursement profiles
established on the basis of experience.
4.



PROJECT COMPLETIQN REPORT
MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
(1,OAN 1602-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project
Credit No.:        Loan 1602-MOR
RVP Unit:          MENA Region
Country:           Morocco
Sector:            Agriculture
Sub-sectors:       Rainfed Agriculture
2. Backjround
2.1  ?olicv Context.  Throughout the 1970!s, the Covernment of the Kingdom of
Morocco pursued agricultural development policies which were characterized by
a high level of price and market interventionism and a policy preference for
the irrigated sector. Investment and support services available to rainfed
agricultural production lagged markedly behind. Parallel to supporting the
ongoing investment in irrigated agriculture, the Bank had pursued policy work
and entertained a policy dialogue with the Government with regard to the
rainfed agricultural sector1  . This effort led to the conclusion that the
rainfed agricultural sector warranted a higher priority in the investment
programme and, subsequently, to the adoption in the mid-1980's of the Medium
Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Programme (MTSAP), This programme was
supported by the Bank through two subsequent sector adjustment loans (ASAL).
2.2  The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project (FKT) was the first of a series
of four rural development prc 'cts2' , each specifically designed to develop
and test options for stimula 1 g growth and increasing production in various
environments representative of Morocco's rainfed areas.  FKT was specifically
"....conceived to serve as a model for the development of high potential
cereal  orwing areas and encompasseu a number of innovative approaches to
agricult .al development, which would be carried out on a trial basis"31
2.3  Macro-economic Con'it-ons during Droiect implementation.  The latter
part of the implementation period of the project colncided with a singularly
difficult period for Morocco's economy during which the financial
1/ A more extensive description of the major policy issues and che Bank's
involvement is given in paras 2 to 6 of the Loukkos Rural Development Project
PCR which was recently prepared by the Bank.
2/ FKT (FY78); Loukkos (FY80); Middle Atlas (FY82); and Oulmes-Rommani (FY83).
3/  Source: para. 36 of the "Report and Recommendation of the President to the
Executive Directors", Report No. P-2340-MOR, dated June 14, 1978.



-2-
and budgetary situation increasingly deteriorated. This prompted the
Government to impose financial restrictiotns and undertake a range of
adjustment polic.es.  By 1989, substantial improvements had been achieved
albeit at the cost of drastic reducticns in public investment. and operating
budgets.  These measures essentially affected all Government operations,
including most of the Bank-supported investment projects.  The FKT project was
no exception.
2.4   In addition, the first five years of the project implementation  3ariod
saw the US$ exchange rate appreciate dramatically against most other
currencies and in particular against the Dirham. The exchange rate evolved
from Dh 4.30/US$ at the time of appraisal to around Dh 10/US$ in 1985 and
around Dh 8/US$ at present. This resulted in effectively halving Bank
disbursements, from the Moroccan point of view.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   Prolect Objectives.   The primary objective of the project was to
impro"e the living standards of some 34,000 farm families who cultivated
256,000 ha or 96% of the arable land in the project areal  . This was to be
achieved principally through increasing agricultural production and farm
incomes.  The basic strategy of the agricultural component was to improve crop
yields by increasing the availability of inputs in the rural area and by
providing improved input packages to farmers, Improved living standards would
furthermore be pursued by complementing increased farm incomes with a series
of infrastructural investments, such as roads, education, health and potable
water supply facilities.
3.2   Proiect Description.   The project would consist of three main
components:
(a) Agricultural Development which included: (i) the reorganization and
strengthening of the extension services, including the construction
of facilities, the provision of equipment and training; (ii)
agricultural credit to cover project needs for incremental short-
term credits, the introduction of new lending criteria, and the
provision of supporting infrastructure and equipment; and (iii)
improvements in the supply of farm inputs, including construction
of distribution centers and machinery repair shops;
(b) Soil and Water Conservation measures on a trial basis, including
programmes for hillside farming and wasteland improvement,
supported by an adaptive research and demonstration programme; and
(c) Infrastructural Development which would consist of the (i)
rehabilitation and construction of 414 km of secondary roads and
strengthening of road maintenance service; (ii) the construiction of
two water supply systems serving about 176 villages; (iii) the
l'/    Fes-Karia and Tissa are three counties north of the city of Fes.



-3
construction of 68 classroomns, teacher housing units and related
infrastructure; and (iv) the construction of 4 rural health centers
and one rural dispensarv.
(d) In addition, a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) component was
propos,ed and two feasibility studies were to be undertaken.1/
4. Proiect Design and Organization
4.1   Proiect processing.   The project had originally been identified by a
mission of the iO/IBRD Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) in 1976.  Subsequently,
GOM undertook the preparation, assisted by several FAO/CP and Bank missions.
The project was submitted to the Bank in 1979 for appraisal. This rather
drawn-out preparation process per;nitted the consideration of the conclusions
reached at the ongoing policy discussions between the Government and the Bank.
Moreover, as some key staff, responsible for project implementation, were
actively involved in the preparation process, the long and participatory
preparation process allcwed a good general understanding of the project's
objectives and complex set of activities.  Likewise, the participatory
preparation brought about a clear conceptual foundation: envisaging, on the
one hand, to undertake an integrated rural development effort in a specific
area and, on the other hand, to test a number of development options to
promote small-holder production and conservational aspects of rainfed
agricultural development.
4.2   Design and Level of Preparation.   The core agricultural component
(including extension, research and training) was well prepared, as were most
of the infrastructure components. The major exception was the rural drinking
water component. At the time of appraisal, only a preliminary design study
had been undertaken. During implementation it became clear that both scale
and costs were seriously under-estimated.  In addition, it was confirmed that
(i) full treatment of the water was required instead of simple filtering; and
that (ii) the distribution network required two pressure levels instead of
one.
4.3   During project implementatioii it was decided to combine the two
independently designed conservation components: hillside farming and wasteland
improvement. It was considered that a distinction between the two components
was somewhat artificial as both components ultimately pursued the same
objective and were implemented in the same watersheds. An integrated approach
was therefore adopted.
4.4   Credit.  The credit component was by far the most innovative aspect of
the project design. The project introduced an entirely new concept of credit
lending; one which was based on actual input costs which were assessed on the
basis of farm-size, cropping pattern and technical package determined in
One for the Loukkos project which was under preparation and one for a follow-
tup second-phase FKT project.



. 4 -
cooperation with the extension agents, rather than the previously used "fiscal
income system". Short-term credit was to be limited to 50% of the farmer's
potential gross income. When these new criteria were applied, many farmers
saw their credit limits increase greatly, while many others could for the
'first time qualify for credit. To cope with the expected rapid increase in
credit applications, the SAR foresaw a doubling of the existing credit
institution's staff.
4.5   During project implementation a number of modifications to the original
design had to be made. Firstly, it proved impossible to organize informal
farmer groups and therefore this approach was abandoned almost immediately.
Secondly, it was found that credit limits were somewhat too generous,
especially in the light of the limited institutional capacity of the local
banks to supervise loan applications. Although the cooperation between the
extension service and the local banks was excellent, the basic institutional
technical weaknesses of the local banks could not be entirely compensated by
the extension agents. The situation was aggravated by the fact that the
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) only partially implemented the staff and
facilities strengthening measures that were proposed. At the time of PCI
preparation, no information had been provided by CNCA on the number of
beneficiaries or nature of the investment. CNCA is now undergoing a full
reorganization supported by the seventh agricultural credit (Ln. 3088-MOR),
and in future such data should be readily available.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.1   ImRlementation Period.   The project was approved in June 1978, but it
took until February 1979 for the project to become effective. The project had
originally been expected to be implemented over a 6-year period, with
completion planned for June 1986. Notwithstanding a particularly good start
in project activities, three extensions were granted and the loan was closed
only in June 1990 (Table 2 of Part III). The main reasons for this long delay
were the extremely difficult budgetary situation, which affected the project
especially from 1984 onwards, and the difficulties that were encountered with
the drinking water component.
5.2 The budgetary difficulties caused excessive delays in project activities
in a number of ways. First, funds were not available as had been projected in
the SAR; this caused project activities not to be undertaken at the foreseen
scale and caused, in particular, delays for infrastructural works. In such a
complex project, this had implications on many key activities like extension,
whose success depended on the completion of other activities such as the
construction of housing and the arrival of equipment.
5.3   In addition to a general shortage of funds, the situation was
exacerbated by the long and slow budgetary procedures to which the project was
submitted. For example, funds for an infrastructural investment would be
approved, in principle, for a certain fiscal year, but on condition that only
a certain percentage could actually be paid during that year and that the
payment of the balance would have to be paid in successive years without a
definite timetable. As most of the infrastructural works were carried out by



-5-
private enterprises on a contract basis, this system caused serious financial
difficulties to many contractors and a high percentage of contracts were
abandoned after work initiation. In those cases, first the contract had to be
,canceled and, then, a new bid had to be organized. In many cases these
protracted procedures caused long delays.
5.4  However, delays did not affect all project components in the same way.
As a matter of fact, most of the agricultural development component which
required less incremental funding, and most of its related key infrastructural
investments which did not involve a lot of detailed engineering, had been
completed by FY87.
5.5  The project cost was originally estimated at around Dh 694.5 million
(US$ 161.5 million) in nominal values. The actual cost is estimated at around
Dh 597.7 million (USS 86.75 million) (see Table 5 of Part III)', . The large
difference in US$ cost is primarily due to the appreciation of the US$ versus
the,Dirham. The second reason is the down-scaling of the project during the
project restructuring in 1987.
5.6   In 1987, at the time of approval of the first extension of the closing
date, it was decided to undertake a Special Action Program (SAP) for the
project. The basic features of the SAP were an increase of the Bank
disbursement percentages and a general down-scaling of a number of
infrastructural investments (see Table 4 of Part III). It was furthermore
decided to cancel US$ 15 million from the original US$ 65 million loan. The
SAP had a favorable impact on project implementation as it allowed the scope
of the project to be adjusted to the budgetary realities, which allowed
project management to scale down activities accordingly. Yet, due to the slow
and cumbersome administrative financial procedures, these measures eased the
project's financial difficulties only to a limited extent.
5.7  M&E component.  The M&E component was fairly well prepared.  It had
furthermore been foreseen that detailed preparation would be carried out by a
local consultancy firm in close consultation with the DPA offices. During
implementation, it appeared, however, that the component suffered from a
general lack of comprehension about the real objectives sought and the means
of achieving them. After serious delays had occurred, the mid-term review
mission concludec in 1985 that the problem was con.mon to all four rural
development projects. The mission therefore proposed to organize overseas
training in M&E for staff of those four projects. This training would be
followed by practical training in Morocco. It was also proposed to employ
additional consultancy support. Although the training took place, it was
probably too late to generate a noticeable impact on the execution of the
component.
The  actual  cost  was  estimated  on  the basis  of MARA  figures  for  the
agricultural and some of the infrastructural components. As it is certain
that criteria, somewhat different from those assumed in the SAR, were used
in establishing these costs, it is not possible to entirely reconcile the two
estimates. In addition, a number of operating costs, most notably some staff
costs, are not shown in the actual cost estimates.



5.8  Risk assessment.  The SAR accurately identified the main risks which
could affect successful project implemnentation as (i) adverse climatic
conditions; (ii) inadequate Government funding for project activities as a
result of an increasing tightness of the public finance situation; (iii) poor
farmer participation; and (iv) excessive delay in implementation due to
administrative inertia and coordination difficulties.
5.9   In actual fact, the project was affected by all these risks with the
possible exception, of "poor farmer participation", although no sufficient
data are available to assess farmers' participation accurately. With regard
to the climatic conditions, the SAR assumed one drought year every five years.
Unfortunately, actual rainfall was much worse than anticipated in the SAR and
it can be said that during the decade of the project's implementation there
were, at most, three of what could be qualified as years with more or less
normal rainfall and distribution. This affected the agricultural component,
as farmers' risk aversion under such conditions rendered them less likely to
adopt new technologies, the successive years of low income weakened their
financial stamina and therefore their ability to invest in new technology.
The actual results achieved are the more remarkable as they were accomplished
under these adverse climatic conditions.
5.10 Project management. The most positive aspect of project implementation
has been that project management has been competent and constant during its
implementation. This induced a good understanding of the project's goals and
objectives, which, in turn, contributed, notwithstanding the multiple
difficulties, to achieving most of its objectives.
5.11 Another factor that greatly benefitted implementation was the fact that
the basic project implementation procedures were well designed, as they were
wholly grafted onto existing institutior.al arrangements. The arrangements
whereby the project director was the provincial director of agriculture in
Fes, while a separate project manager, directly attached to the DPA, managed
day-to-day operations, were satisfactory for the agricultural components and
those infrastructural investments for which the DPA office was responsible.
As management of most components (agricultural, roads until 1985/6, drinking
water supply, construction) was concentrated in one DPA office (Fes), this
furthermore minimized coordination difficulties. Such difficulties were
encountered, however, with respect to components not under the direct
responsibility of the DPA, in particular, the small health component.
6. Proiect Results and Impact
6.1 This chapter first discusses the main physical project achievements and
then reviews project impact. Tables 4 and 6 of Part III summarize both
achievements and results.
6.2  Agricultural Development.  The agricultural development component
consisted essentially of the strengthening of the agricultural support
services (extension, training and some applied research). This strengthening
was to be complemented by an improved availability of inputs and credit. The



-7-
project constructed or expanded 18 agricultural centers to which a total of 76
extension agents were appointed; only slightly less than planned. Over the
years, the centers came to function as a genuine nucleus of the basic support
services available to farmers in the area. The services include farm input
supply stores, credit counters and farm machinery shops, in addition to the
"classical" extension services. The ratio of extension agents was
considerably improved from the 1 to 1200 farmers at the start of the project
to around 1 to 350 presently. The extension service was strengthened by
equipping agents with transport and housing and professionally supporting them
with a multi-disciplinary team of subject matter specialists and an audio-
visual support team.
6.3  Training of Extension agents.  The training of extension agents took
place at the Sahel Bouattar agricultural school following the upgrading of its
infrastructure and teaching curriculum by the project. Classrooms,
laboratories and housing were constructed and the school farm and laboratories
were equipped. Project staff participated in dispensing courses and a third
year was added to the training cycle to enable the future project
extensionists to practise crop production and conduct demonstrations on the
school's farm land. Between 1982 and 1986, a total of 132 extensionists were
trained, 76 of them specifically for the FKT project, the rest were assigned
to other areas of Morocco. In addition to the training of extension agents,
thirteen project staff of different levels received training abroad, nine
trained in hillside farming, one each in the use of annual medicagos and range
management and three in farm management. The improvements in the teaching
curriculum coupled with the extra year of practical training and the
participation of project staff in teaching all resulted in producing high
quality extensionists experienced in field operations and ready for immediate
interaction with farmers. The practical training plots, established by the
extensionist trainees at the school during their final year, were successfully
used to demonstrate improved production techniques and played an important
role in extending knowledge particularly to neighbouring farmers.
Improvements in curriculum and the added practical training year have been
adopted by similar schools in Morocco. The Sahel Bouattar school will
continue to be supported by the regular budget provided by MARA.
6.4  Applied Research component.  An agricultural experimental station was
established and staffed by the project in 1980 on 70 ha near Karia Ba Mohamed.
Since 1980, two types of research/demonstration programmes were undertaken.
The first was implemented in collaboration with the National Institute for
Agronomic Research (INRA) and concerned varietal cereal improvement and
adoption and testing of crop production techniques for cereal and industrial
crops, fruit trees and forage crops. The second was oriented more toward
applied research and was designed and conducted by project staff to
demonstrate crop production techniques including crop rotations and the use of
annual Medicago to improve forage production on fallow lands. In addition to
the small experimental plots, comprehensive demonstrations were set up by the
project on farmers' fields with their collaboration and participation. Both
typesx of research and demonstration works presently conducted at the station
will continue to operate with the support and collaboration of the DPA's of
Fes and Taounate and INRA.



-8 -
6.5 The introduction of annual Medicago for the establishment of self
regenerating legume pastures started with the project. In 1981/82 610 ha
were established and by 1987/88, 1930 ha were put in place; since then,
however, the areas newly seeded to medicago in the project zone started to
decline. In addition, and because of the lack of proper management, i.e. -
continuous grazing and deep ploughing - practically no self regenerated stands
could be found 4here medicago were previously seeded. In 1985/86 a first
year. 50 ha stand of medicago (cv snail and cv jamelong) is reported to have
yielded 11.7 T/ha of green fodder, other small trials showed that yields of up
to 30 T/ha of green fodder can be reached. Farmers did not adopt the
Australian techniques for cultivating alfalfa as they had inadequate ancillary
equipment and wrong tilling practices. In addition, overgrazing by the
farmers was another factor. A few farmers, however, encouraged by the
relatively moderate cost of the subsidized medicago seeds, have opted for the
reseeding of their lands every year in rotation with fallow.
6.6   Credit.  In order to permit farmers to finance their additional farm
input needs, a substantial inci.ease in the amount of short term credit had to
be made available. To that end, more liberal lending criteria were introduced
(see para 4.4, 4.5). As a result, short-term lending increased rapidly in the
project area from a total short-term portfolio of around Dh 2.2 million
involving 2,383 farmers in 1979/80 to a portfolio of about Dh 22 million
involving 11,090 farmers in 1982. There is no doubt that this rapid increase
in short term credit contributed substantially to the rapid uptake of the
improved production packages promoted by the extension service.
6.7 The sizable increase in credit activity occurred too rapidly for the
local banks to handle it efficiently with their existing staff and
infrastructure. In addition, at that time, the country had been hit by a
serious drought which was reflected in the low repayment percentages of about
50% registered in those years. CNCA concluded that the lending criteria had
been established somewhat too generously and consequently modified its lending
arrangements on several occasions. Collective loans to farmer groups wele
abandoned early in the project life and were followed by a reduction of
lending ceilings. Notwithstanding these reductions, the local banks in the
project area provided credit to about 6,000 farmers in 1989 (DH 21 million)
compared to 2,383 farmers in 1979/80.
6.8   Conservation Component.   The project was highly successful in
introducing on-farm erosion control measures through the planting of fruit
trees - mostly olives - on 14,000 ha; 6,000 ha more than foreseen in the SAR.
The establishment of a vegetative cover with forest trees on waste land prone
to erosion was successfully undertaken on only about 3,000 ha, as compared to
a total of 8,500 ha envisaged in the SAR. Major difficulties were mostly of a
socio-economic nature. Many farmers were not interested in applying soil
conservation practices as it put some of their land out of grazing for some
years. However, wherever these activities were undertaken with the



-9  -
participation of farmers, the rate of success was relatively high. The
component proved more successful in the northern part of the project area
because alternative land use is more limited and because it is adjacent to a
large area where similar development activities had been undertakenl' during
the past decade. This had caused the population of the northern parts to be
more motivated than those in the south.
6.9   Infrastructural Development.   The project constructed 252 km of
permanently accessible tertiary roads. Also, 68 primary school classrooms as
well as 22 dining halls and 140 teaclher houses were constructed. The health
component was only partially completed and it is reported that at present only
one rural health center was completed (Mikkes). It has not been equipped so
far. Two other health centers are still under construction. Their completion
is not guaranteed due to technical difficulties. The construction of a fourth
center had not gotten underway at the time of loan closure.
6.10 With respect to the two rural drinking water supply systems, the M'Kansa
system, catering for 92 communities, was essentially completed in 1988. The
Ain Gdah system, catering for 186 communities, was completed during 1991.
Neither system has, however, so far benefitted the population, due to delays
in the decision regarding the management of the system. ONEP finally accepted
the management of these systems in early 1991 following agreement that it
would be recompensed for the high cost of operation of these two schemes.
6.11 Proiect Impact. The question of whether the project has attained its
principal objectives has to be judged in the light of the rather poor
quantification of project objectives in the SAR and the near-absence of
monitoring activities of project results. Notwithstanding the long drought
period, there is no doubt, however, that productivity and agricultural
production have increased in the area. Input supply and improved seed use
increased significantly. This is most clearly shown in the increase in
yields. Yields of durum wheat increased from around 1 ton/ha in 1979 to 1.5
ton/ha in 1989 and yields of bread wheat are reported to have increased from
around 1.7 ton to 2.3 ton/ha over the same period. These yields are not quite
as high as envisaged by the SAR but this should be seen in the light of the
prolonged drought period and the rather high SAR projections.2/
6.12 The SAR envisaged an increase of bread wheat at the expense of durum
wheat cultivation. This development did indeed occur, but it is impossible to
ascertain to what extent this was due to the project's activities, as a
similar development took place elsewhere in Morocco under influence of other
governmental programmes and pricing policies. Yet, the area under bread wheat
increased from 20,750 ha in 1980 to around 80,000 in 1989, while the durum
wheat area declined from 104,000 to 50,000 ha.
1/ Western Rif Development Project which benefitted from FAO/UNDP technical
assistance.
2/  The SAR expected bread wheat yields to  -icrease to 2.6 ton/ha and barley
yields to 2.0 ton/ha.



- 10 -
6.13 The waste land imiprovement component was successful in improving at
least 14,000 ha, mostly with highly productive olive groves. Likewise, the
afforestation and vegetative cover on 3,000 ha will have a positive ecological
impact on the grassed water ways and steep hill sides where they have been
established. The hillside farming component, on the other hand, had a very
limited impact as farmers found it difficult to adopt mechanized contour
ploughing, for example.
6.14 Other indicators of project impact. As the project sought to increase
the total welfare of the population in the area, other indicators are at least
as important as increases in production. The tertiary road improvement
programme, albeit reduced, had a noticeable positive impact on the project
area. It is reported that the year round, all-weather accessibility of the
area, has resulted in an active private trade at competitive prices in basic
agricultural inputs such as fertilizers and a ready market for agricultural
produce. Under the Project, it was envisaged that responsibility for
supplying agricultural inputs and for providing repair services for
agrfcultural machinery would be shifted from the Government extension centers
to private and public sector suppliers and service cooperatives who would
lease from the Government the farm input supply stores and repair shops which
would be constructed in the 18 agricultural centers.   Fertilizer and improved
seed sales of the agricultural centers constructed under the project have
diminishLd following the privatization policy pursued by the Government and
the improved road system has physically allowed the pri¼vate sector to
undertake this task. It is also reported, however, that the sales of inputs
from the agricultural centers continues to be important, as it compels the
private sector to adhere to certain quality and price levels. All the above,
plus the increased credit availability, had a very positive impact on private
sector development. The rural drinking water supply systems will, once put in
operation, change the lives of at least 56,000 habitants, in that they will,
for the first time, have a safe and reliable drinking water source in their
immediate proximity. The education facilities have all been put in operation
and it is reported that primary school attendance has increased by 12% in the
project area as a result of these inveqtments.
6.15  Results of the Economic Analysis.   Notwithstanding the near absence of
reliable data on project impact, an indicative economic analysis was carried
out on the agricultural component." The analysis results in an ERR of 9%.
This compares to 21% estimated at the time of appraisal. The 9% ERR indicates
that the agricultural component was successful, but that the delays irn project
implementation and slower than projected materialization of benefits,
significantly lowered the return on investments.2/
Basic assumptions,  methodology  and results are discussed in a separate
working paper. The results are summarized in Table 6 of Part III.
2/ The SAR estimated that a one year lag in benefits would reduce the ERR from
21 to 14%.



- 11 -
7. Sustainability
7.1   The sustainability issue of FKT may be examined from at least two points
of view; firstly, the sustainability of the activities in the project area
pursuing the increased welfare of the population and, secondly, the adoption
and replication of pilot project activities elsewhere in Morocco. Regarding
the activities in the project area, the infrastructural development (roads,
extension, research and educational) facilities were constructed within the
existing Government structure and have been fully assimilated in the operating
budget. It is therefore expected that they will continue to be maintained and
to generate continued benefits for the population. A possible exception might
have been the drinking water supply system arising from the long delay in
deciding on the agency management. However, now that ONEP has agreed to take
su on its operation and maintenance, sustainability should be assured.
7.2   The extension service has, in a way, profited from the delayed project
implementation by benefitting from some additional years of funding. The
service is well integrated in the existing agricultural development services
of the project area. As the extension system relies heavily on continued
operational funding, the ending of the project and the present budgetary
contraints may pose serious problems for the future effectiveness of the
service. It has been decided, however, that the project area will continue to
benefit from some operational funding from the ongoing Bank-assisted
"Agricultural Extension and Research Project".
7.3   Replication of innovative proiect features.  One of the most interesting
aspects of the project has been the testing of innovative approaches to
rainfed agricultural development. A number of these features have been found
useful, and have, albeit somewhat altered, been adopted in other programmes
and development activities. The main innovative feature of the project
concerns the short-term credit to small-holders. The project abandoned the
practice of determining credit levels on the basis of "fiscal income" and
adopted the principle of granting credit on the basis of the real credit needs
and repayment capacity of the individual. The project also supported the
opening of "credit guichets" at the agricultural centers, which greatly
facilitated the procedures for farmers to obtain credit.  This system has,
although modified, been adopted in principle in all the other Bank supported
projects which include a credit component.
7.4   The second important innovative feature of the project concerned the
extension system. Based on the T&V approach, the system was adopted and found
to work well. The system is presently being implemented in the Bank-assisted
"Agricultural Extension and Research project". The M&E component proved to be
unsustainable. The envisaged functional and simple M&E system was never
developed nor fully integrated in the existing organization.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   The project benefitted from the fact that it was prepared at a time when
the Bank was fully aware of the need for testing rainfed agriculture
development alternatives in Morocco parallel to, and in support of, the policy



12  -
dialogue with the Moroccan authorities. The Bank clearly supported the
project's implementation with this prime objective in mind. This was
especially clear from the supervision effort (See Table 8 of Part III).
Supervision missions were frequent with good staff continuity. They were also
well staffed from a technical point of view, especially during the first few
years when it was most important. Furthermore, the supervision staff stayed
sufficiently long in the project area to acquire a good understanding of the
project's implementation problems. This was. highly appreciated by project
staff and allowed them to inter.ene effectively to overcome some of the most
salient implementation difficulties.
8.2  The Bank proved responsive and flexible in modifying p-oject design and
reducing project scope in the light of implementation experience and the
budgetary constraints, by undertaking a SAP and canceling a total of US$ 25
million from the original loan. The Bank could have reacted somewhat swifter
in recognizing the budgetary difficulties by approving the SAP in 1985, when
the,need was recognized. Also, the Bank should perhaps have insisted more on
the timely hiring of consultants.
8.3  Lessons learned.  The experience with this project shows that:
(i)    essential studies such as for the rural drinking water supply
system (which turned out to be a large and complex infrastructural
investment) should be carried out at the project design stage.
Also, the project would have benefitted from earlier hiring of
consulants;
(li)   the type of long-term development effort which is required for
rainfed agricultural development may be more suitably implemented
in the form cf a time-slice of a longer-term development programme;
(iii)  a well-designed and simple-to-use M&E component is essential as a
management and, even more so, as an evaluation tool. This is
especially the case in a complex project with a number of pilot
features, which needed to be evaluated before being applied
elsewhere. It should be in place before project implementation
begins (say by loan effectiveness);
(iv)   continuity of capable project management, together with Government
suppor;, are crucial factors to project success. Key posts should
be filled by competent staff before Bank loans are made effective;
(v)    the expansion of credit operations must be accompanied by an
adequate reinforcement and expansion of the credit institution's
infrastructure and staff;
(vi)   where national agencies (in this case ONEP) are involved in the
provision of services under agricultural projects they should be on
board by loan effectiveness or committed by a dated covenant;



13  -
(vii)  integration of infrastructural components (water supply schemes,
roads, schools) with agriculture development greatly improves the
well-being of rural populations thereby increasing farmers'
motivation and cooperation in project activities. However, this
integration complicates design and, with the need to coordinate
different ministries, makes implementation most difficult.
(viii) five years is too short an implementation period for projects of
this type and complexity. Project duration should be fixed
according to disbursement profiles established on the basis of
experience.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1   It should be recognized that the Government pursued the project's
obj.ectives with as much resolution as the Bank. This included a commitment to
the project's main objectives and the willingness to apply positive
experiences, obtained during the project's implementation, elsewhere. This
commitment was furthermore confirmed by the enbured continuity of project
maligement which, as has 'been said earlier, contributed perhaps more than any
other factor, to the project's success.
9.2   On the negative side, the Government did not make adequate funds
available to the project to ensure a high rate of implementation during some
crucial years of the project. This fact should obviously be seen in the light
of the general and rather severe public finance situation of Morocco in those
years. It would, however, have been more beneficial to the project if at an
early date a firm decision had been made to scale the project down to allow
adequate funding for the core agricultural and conservation components rather
than slowing down the entire implementation process. The practice of
allocating a certain budget amount but without committing the required funds
to the project every year to cover expenditures, had perhaps a more negative
impact on project implementation than the general low funding, as it led in
many instances to the abandonment of project works by the contractors.
9.3   it is regrettable that it took until 1991 to find a solution to the
management of the potable water schemes. This i.ssue was first brought up
early in the 1980's and supervision missions continued to press for a
decisiont. Generally speaking, Loan cover.ants were implemented as foreseen
(See Table 7 of Part III). Notable exceptions were local funding and the
management and cost recovery of the rural drinking water system.
10. Proiect RelationshiD
10.1 The relationship between the Bank and the Moroccan authorities was
excellent at various levels. By conducting frequent supervision missions,
which concentrated on technical issues, the relationship between Bank staff
and project staff was very good indeed. The relationship with higher level
authorities was also sound and was greatly assisted by the staff continuity on
the Bank's side and the continued interest of both parties in rainfed
agriculture problems in the form of a policy dialogue, which culminated in the
adoption of the Medium Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Programme.



- 14 -
11. Consultancv Services
11.1 The project used the services of Lwo types of consultants: private
individuals to work on technical implementation issues and firms for design
work. The SAR had foreseen a total of 57 man-i,aonths of consultancy services,
of which 22 man-months for two studies which were not undertaken' . A
total of around 130 mm of internationally recruited consultants had been
anticipated.  In actual fact, only 82 inm were actually employed in the fields
of extension training (46mm), Medicago research (24mm) and hillside farming
(12mm). The performance of the consultants was generally satisfactory.
Project management was of the opinion that additional consultancy services
were not required. This may have been true for some components, but it would
seem that relevant short-term, but sustained, consultancy services in the
fields of M&E would have benefitted the project.
11.2 The project also used the services of two firms for the design of the
drinking water supply system and one for the design of the M&E system. Little
information is available regarding the performance of the firms responsible
for the drinking water component. Although there were some considerable
delays, the general design appears satisfactory. Regardi.ng the M&E system,
the complete M&E system that was conceived proved far too complex to operate
and the agricultural staff, the intended users, were insufficiently involved.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1 The appraisal report, and especially its project file, proved a useful
guide throughout the implementation of the project. The involvement of the
project authorities in the project's preparation and the fact that the general
principles of the project and its objectives were well understood by everybody
concerned, g- atly contributed to the understanding of the appraisal document
and therefore increased its usefulness. As part of the M&E component, the
project carried out a sample survey of 800 farms in 1981 and 1983.  The
results of 1983 were never analyzed due to difficulties with the central data
processing facilities on which the project had to rely. For this reason, the
idea to carry out a similar survey in 1988 was abandoned. For the PCR, GOM
collected satisfactory information on the physical implementation of the
project. Only very limited information was available on the credit component,
implemented by CNCA. Due to the poor performance of the M&E component,
insufficient reliable data is available to allow for an accurate project
impact analysis.
For the Loukkos project and a second phase FKT project.



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW UAOM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    CONFIRMATION OF FACTUAL DATA CONTAINED IN PARTS I AND III. REMARKS ON
ANALYSIS CONTAINED IN PART I.
1)    Data contained in Parts I and !II are in accordance with data
available at Project management, with the exception of the- figures appearing
in the Evaluation Summary, para. 4, concerning the land area cultivated in the
project area, i.e. 266,000 ha instead of 256,000 ha.
2)  Remarks on the Analysis
Page 6. para. 7
Concerning the M&E component, all project staff are convinced of
its importance. The project has in fact given due importance to this
component which, through regular monitoring of activities, provides important
feedback to management concerning results and impact of the project.
However, given the complexity of the project, combining as it does
a number of activities in different sectors, the M&E system could not be
established as foreseen because it advocated perfection. On the other hand,
this did not prevent regular monitoring of project execution.
Page 8. para. 6.14
This paragraph should mention that an agricultural experimental
station was created in 1990 under the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project.
Page 10, para. 6.12
The program for intensification of bread wheat at the expense of
durum wheat envisaged by the Project started long before the national program.
Page 11: Sustainability
The extension approach adopted by the Project (T & V) has been
extended and improved under the Extension Master Plan, to the benefit of the
CTs of the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project area.



- 16 -
A maintenance fund was set up by MARA (DPV) long before Project
completion, which facilitates Project continuity.
-     Some infrastructural facilities are being managed by cooperatives
or private enterprises (repair shops, input supply centers).
-     The water supply system is under the responsibility of the
Regional Commissariats and ONEP, which has taken over its
operation and maintenance.
-     The beneficiaries also contribute to the maintenance of tree
plantations.
B.    BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank actively participated in tile removal of several
convtraints during project execution, thanks to the great number of it.;
supervision missions. The major constraint removed by the Bank was the one
caused by the budgetary situation. This constraint could, however, have been
removed earlier by approving the SAP In 1985 instead of two years later.
C.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The Government has given great importance to the execution of the
project in view of its originality and its importance for the development of
rainfed agriculture.
The Government's efforts can be summarized as follows:
mobilization of maximum of funds available despite the budgetary
restrictions imposed by the country during the project execution
period;
assignment of competent professional staff from various
disciplines ar, staff in sufficient number;
organization of project management;
creation of a coordination structure (commissions) composed of the
various participants and project beneficiaries (regional and
mainaging commissions);
promulgation of legi.elation governing the establishment of anti-
erosion control structures, and interventions in hillside farming
areas;
reorganization of the CTs in the project area, integrating all
agricultural skills;



-  17  -
-     incentive measures have been taken to stimulate farmers to
participate in certain project activities;
-     organizatioti of farmers' groups and agricultural cooperatives to
participate in and benefit from project activities.
D.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
The relationship between the Bank and the Moroccan authorities has
been excellent at various levels, and this has facilitated project execution.



- 19 -
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFOR.ATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Lsa/C,reda Tneil                           Perpose                     Years of Appranal       Slanus
Loam 2S90-MOR.                  Support the nlm phue ef implementartion or the     FY S5        Clored June 24,
Afuinturnl Seon Adiuttrent   Goveenment's prosammne of adjustmrnins in the                      1967
apicultural sector. The prracipar objecivws of
the sctor adjustment prognmne ar to imprno
the growth rate in apeculture vithin the owrUl.
wmtrisints in public resourneL
'Low MaMOR  gd                  Support the secod phs e of implemetsatioe ot         r'Y   .    Third T rahs
AreWlyral aoor Adius tmgn       r the Governments medium-terrmsntcuitrui                       Reiraed
11tor adjustment programme within the
inmework of a general macroeconomic
rseuucurinsg provnmne. The essential
obectives are to  uner ettfcient agrictlturat
p;wtih   nd to costributa to the reduction of
budgeuLy aod current account deleits to,
__________________manageatble keuels. I t                                                
ir 16O2-MO          R s I       Jnprone rurl licome tttd acrial well-beingt.        FY  7       t 006130/9Q
33900 fatm fsmilies in the proiect mu througi
(a) Irnprovemens to the nserch and eternion                     &"ic-l ddiing
services (b) :crtsed cridit availabiliry, (c)                   dait 06/30/86
improved inpur supply, (d) erosion coetrol (e)
wasteland rehabilitation and (( investmeats. in
infratrueture such as roads, shools, health
facilities and water supply.
Loan 2217-MOR Oulmu             Improve the lMng standards of tMe                   FY 83       Under superAsioo
Ronani Art¶rulrut              predomienaly rural population Irvincvithin the
ewMot=ment Proiea             peojeer area through development of agriculture                  Original doling
livestock and foretry and through provision of                  daLe 12/31/89
* berter social sad agrculure services.
Current disag
datt 06/30/92
Ln am 48-MNORILoo RuM   Lmprome the asroilrural systems prevaiLhtt in               FY go       Original cloittz
Loukkmt warerehed into sustainable systerms by                  date 6/1967
alleviating the desLrtCrve efTecui of Soil erosion
and increasing agricultural productivity and                    Efecstre elcilng
incomes of poor farmne. Project activities wem                  date 12/198i
to serve es a model for wider replcatios in the
Ri cegiort  
IA*n 1704. Eo        u n adii l Te pronecr aims at increasng MorocS I               FY W        Claed 6130/3
*icultuinl production theetby i'np; ving th
istrd of itd   g or about 45,000 of Monocoo s
(aftin fmilies. TI  projert wili over em t of tha:  
i  Caita Nationale de CrEdit (CNCA  mediun-         i
and long.tertn lendiagpropammc and fant
* innestment progammme thbough ACugut 198M Co.
financing or US$75 million is provided by 1PAD 
and KIW. Disburement ane on schedule. To
lleviate CNCA't short-trm lquidity problems
* due to the recent dmught, At lendetm including
the Bank, have inctcd their disbursement
perentages under their respective loans.
Namadag 23t7f^ acd.    of            stY84                    oo          //11/1
FM A-kmkWW Cft  A                    wCNCA 1924& Tow ima
USSM  afian finaaced by
3d. FADES SAID sad KW.
Low JIMl44R             ~       Fmadn of aed4ti of                                  FM7          cm"d 2/0
Sbb  AoktkWW Chilit               CC   l9S7.199a Tw a
USSIOI USSIO1  m cilL olinacd by
SM  ad ICW.



- 20 -
Table 2 - Project Timetable
Item                   Date Planned               Date Revised                 Date Actual
Identification                                                                             May 1976
(Executive Project
Summary)
Preparation                        Oct. 1976                    May 1977                   May  1977
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal mission                  Oct. 1977                                               Oct. 1977
Loan/Negotiations                  May  1978                                               May 1978
Board ApprovaL                     June 1978                                               June 1978
Loan/Signature                     Sept. 1978                                             Sept. 1978
Loan/Effectiveness                 Dec. 1978                                               Feb. 1979
Loan/Closing                       June 1986                   June 1990                   June 1990



- 21 -
Table 3 - Loan Disbursements
A. Cumutative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year         Appraisal       Adjusted Estimate|         Actual       |        of    |    Z of
Semester Ending          Estimate                                                  Appraisal      Adjusted
j l                    Estimate       Estimate
l                (USS million) .       .l
FY 80
December 31, 1979                    1.0                  -                   -              0              0
June 30, 1980                        3.0                  1,6                 1.6           0             100
FY 81
December 31, 1980                    5.0                  2.2                 2.0            0             91
June 30, 1981                       10.0                 2.3                  2.3            0            100
FY 82
December 31, 1981                   16.0                  3.7                 3.7          23             100
June 30, 1982                       22.0                  5.5                 5.5          25             100
FY 83
December 31, 1982                   28.0                  6.3                 6.3          23             100
June 30, 1983                       36.0                 9.6                  9.6          27             100
FY 84
December 31, 1983                   42.0                 10.4                10.4          25             100
June 30, 1984                       48.0                12.1                 12.0          25              99
FY 85
December 31, 1984                   54.0                 13.0                13.0          24              99
June 30, 1985                       58.0                 14.8                14.7          26             100
FY 86
December 31, 1985                   62.0                 15.5                15.5          25             100
June 30, 1986                       65.0                 18.6                18.6          29             100
FY 87
December 31, 1986                    _                  22.4                 20.9          32              93
June 30, 1957                                           27.5                 22.6          35              82
FY 88
December 31, 1987                                       33.5                 25.1          39              75
June 3C, 1988                                           40.0                 26.2          40              66
FY 89
December 31, 1988                                         -                  27.2          43              69
June 30, 1989                        _                                       30.6          47              77
FY 90
December 31, 1989                                                            32.5          50              81
June 30, 1990                                                                34.1          53              85
FY 91
December 31, 1990                                                            36.3          56              91
a/  Based on revision of April 1987 when project scope was reduced.
1) Cancellation of USS 15 million effective 19 November 1984.
)) Cancellation of USS 10 million effective 5 June 1986.
3) Cancellation of USS 3 7 million effective 13 November 1990.
Total - USS 28.7 million.



B. Plannero and Actual Disbursements by Category
Catc-gory            P Fannec!       Rev ise'    Actualised  Actual/Revised
I  ar,/           bl _           Cil
i , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,....  U S$           M illion  ..............  %
1 *_____                                                      _        __ ____-___
l  C' rses anr
libl;!'9Sfo.r heatn
b! edu;t gr,    e
cadrni s tratK.  and d             35             3.5           2.8           80%
I marketing facilities.
2 C, v!i ,vorks for thr!
Nirca,s. dI                        24.5            7.3           6.2           89%
3. C:  wori rs for tr-!e
waSe su pr,i\ yStey s-           4.5     |     16.0          16.9          106%
I4A  Eoioment aF a                                                             70%
rijeini es       .                 3.0  j          20            1.4           70%
'1| ircdlWng ferti!lzers.
ser,,~ r
,.,K   -5  * ;tr: 
,0rJ,-l 4&:.Dfli                  12 5  !          5.5 2         4.6           84%
j   <e-?r .: mfer:;             4 +.C2!        2.5            3.3          132%
47 C Cs:~eve
1'j 7 CCr tSA.    r a' '.i''w.S 
rr pt -+;- tfi <')~~. (C   \/ 
a-1, d (-7 fi Pel    '- '    : !9                    .|
I'e.-es for Part '' (!
a-b   d  E, and D.                  4.0            1.5  |1.2                   80%
|. 8  JI i uc ated                  5.0            2.0           0                0
K-_   -.           .      4.-                      2.            0
TOT__ _2L    L       65.0           40.0          36.3            91%
a!'         Loar agreement of Septembner 1978. Total loan amount US$ 65 million.
Based on total loan arrount of USS 40 mi!lion after several cancellations
and proect restructuring of April 1987.
Last c;sbwrsement was made on November 13, 1990 at which time the
oan  -ccount w^,as closed a-n  the rernaning ba!ance of $3,7 million was
canceflsd.



-3 -
Table 4 - Project Implementation: Project Implementation Ratios
.______________            _______                               ---5
Components                    Unt          Projected         Revisd1          Acnt r.,
______________________ _  .___________              I         _ ________________
AGRICULT1JRE    -                                                                                         I
SERVICES
1- Excension 
Construction or.
AgricuItural Centres
(including input
supplies and repair
sbops)                        I,'n.              18              k3A                            100
Housing                       Unit               87                               70             Si
Vehicles                      UniL.                                               41
Hangars                       Unit                                                 3
New evension                  Staff              43    l                          76
agents"t
H- Livestock
Dips                         Uaits                8                                8 S
Housing, vet. posts          Uncts                4               3                3
Housing and
isemination centres                                                                                      I
lilk couection                Units               5    1          1                2             4°
centres                                                 I
111- Training
Training of                   Staff              3Q              106             13' $
ex;ensionsts                                            I                                                i
Overscas training             Staff              30              14               14             47
CorLstruction o!
Housng                       Uni:ts               9    1          -     !1
CLwrooms                     Units                                -                , 
Laborarcry                   UI ts                I                                1     |       cc
Hangar & equipment           Urits                2               -                1 sI
Dormitory                    Units                1     j
TA training specialist                                                  |
*M/'t              36              48
TV - Resecarc,
Est. cf Rescarch            Station                                1 I
Station
Housngs                      Units                4                                4
Haagars                      Units                                                  1   |       00
Mledc                         Ha               9500                             ',30
DemonsUations
1/       P.rojected is incremental; actual is tota'.



- 24 -
Componcent                Unit       Projected       Reviud        Actual      Act/proj.%
Overseas traning          Staff            3             ..1                       33
Technical Assisance.
m/m             24                           24          100
V.- Hillside Farminn. 
Conservation farming
Ha           6,500         3,5W00         322            5
Overseas traizing         Staff .15                                    9           60
Techaical asstance
.m/m:           44.           12             u           27
VIw*  astelad.:                      .      .. .        :        :::                  .
Im2rovement....  ::..
OUve tree puating          f a          8,0Q0        13,000        14,173      :17
Afforestation             Ha            3,000         3,500        . 083           :69
Revegetation              Ha            2,000                         934          47
GuDy control              Ha            3,500                       5,998         171
Range improvemeot         Ha            1,500                        8g0           59
Forest accss roads        Km              SO                          30           60
Overseas trainin:
(range + farnmgt)        Staff             9                           4           44
Housing                  Units            na                          31          n/a
Nurseries                Units             2                           2           100
Hangars                  Units            na                           2          n/a
VIl - CREDIT.....>
Number of
beneficiaries (short
term.) at full
development             Farmers        23,600                     58,092          n/a
iobile CLUA              trucks            6             1             1           17
CLCA saisonal
Windom                   Units             0                          10          n/a
INFRASTRUCTURE
VIIT 1.Pa&                KCm            414           265           252.2         61
IX - Water SUODIV
M'Kanta system            Unit             1             1             1          100
U.it      (85 vilages)  (92 viages)    (92 villages)     100
Ain rGdah                Vnt         -     1            :    1      nearYi        100 
outabouaban                         (91 villages)  (186 villages)  :completed
Surface wens    .        Units           n/a             6             6           n/a
*/ Total number short-term credit beneficiaries from 1981/82 to 1988/89 as compared to incremental SAR
estimates.



- 25 -
Table 5 - Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
1. Estimated at Actual Costs
Item                                    SAR Estimate (mrDh)                  Actual(mDh)'/
A. Agriculture
Mon. and Evaluation                              1.75                              5.87
Extension                                       47.84                             29.91
Wastcland Imnproved                             81.15                             55.67
Training                                        12.14                              6.05
Livestock Dcvelop.                               5.87                              4.10
Socio-cconomic lnrr.                            82.22                             255.32
Hillside Farming                                6.60                              11.16
Rcscarch                                        13.66                             21.75
S;lbtnltal                                      12.05                               5.63
268.23                            395.46
It. Infrastructure
Roads                                          251.65                              76.56
Education                                       46.20                             31.80
Hcailth                                         12.10                              3.24
Soubtortal                                     309.95                             111.60
C. Credith/                                    109.03                             90.60 est.
D. Feasibility Stusdies                         12.18                               0
Total Project Cost                             694.54                             597.66
Totall Cost * US$,/                             161.50                             86.75
Note: Insufricient data is available to distinguish between foreign exchange and local costs. SAR estimated
a total FE component of 40%.
;/ Soumee 'Rappon d'ach&emeng du Projgt FIr prmpred by Ministfy of Agrcul:um,
No da on aatua credhi ros Mu nmde avilable so tha the SAR etimatnonas wee maintained.
/  Using atuW USS/Dh exchange ratu (see Table 5 and Tabk I d( Working peper).



- 26 -
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Source                     Planned            Actual
Loan
Agreement
IBRD                                         65.0              36.3
GovernmentaI                                  85.9             45.5
CNCA  credit                                   8.4              5.0
contribution"'
Farmer's contribution                          2.2              n.a
TOTAL                                       161.5              86.8
f Estimtd t balanc of total prjet cs minus  P-D's and CNCA's estimted contnbution.
bi Esgim id a 40% of estimated c?edit component cat i.s. USS



- 27 -
Table 6 - Project Results
A. Direct Results
1. Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production.
Crnp   Situation nt APPralsala/     Projected Situation/            Actual Situation (1989)b/
Area        Yield    Production    Area       Yield     Prnductinn     Area       Yield    Production
(0(00 ha)   QX/ha                                                     (OOOha)   Qx/hnc/    (000 1)
Duruni
Wlteat          107.1        9         96.4         59.4      15           89.1         50        15          75
13read Whcat
33.5       17         56.9        72.5       26          188.5        80         23         184
nlaricy          13.6        9          12.2        17.4      20           34.8         9         15          14
Pu.lscs          75.8        7          53.1        64.0       1 2         76.8         67         10         67
Oai/vcic.h                                                                                                    so
I:ora,c           7.3       28          20.4        23.3      59          137.5         10        50
Olivcs           18.4       1 7         31.3         22        27          59.4        32.5       25          81
Olher Crops      '0.8                                7.9                              18.0d/                  n/a
T'OTAL.         266.5                              266.5                              266.5
2. Beneficiaries
Bcncfts                     Sitaltion at        Projcctcd Situation        Actual 1989
A ppraisal
Number of farmers
contacLwd by
cxtcnsion                        na                      na                   62,588
Bcnefited from
water stupply
schemes:
- Number of                      0                       176                    278
villages
- Numbcr of                      0                    46,000                 55,700
inhabitants
Bene ted from
education                                                                12%  increase in
enrolment
*/ Source SAR
b/ Source RAP MARA
C/ Average of 1987/88 and 88/89 yields of RAP (MARA) adjusted for farmers declarations
d/ of which 8,500 ha of sunflower



- 28 _
B. Economic Impact
Estinmate
Apprnisal                             PCR
ERR Agriculture Coniponeint                        24% 9Ai%
Notc: sec Workiiig Paper ror assetitiptiolis.
C. Studies
Studies            Purpose as derined by              status
SARI
LOUKKOS stucly             World Bank to provide
frlianicing tliroughi FKT
project for a
complemcntary
fCasibility study of thc
Loukkos Rural
Development Project
FKT Project - 2nd               not conducted
phase
Conducting a feasibility
study for a second phasc
agricultural projcct in
the FES-KARIA-TISSA
Rcgion                                                 _ __i_ _ _ _
not conducted although that it is not excluded that some disbursements were made for the rihancing of
some aspects of the Loukkos preparation



- 29 -
Table 7 - Status of Major Covenants, (Loan No. 1602 - MOR)
Section of Loan        Short Description            Compliance
Agreement                                         _ ____
3.01 (a)         Appointment of one Adjoint    in compliance          D
Technique to each Work Centre
3.02 (a)         Employment of engineering     in compliance
consultants for road and water
supply infrastructure components
3.04 (c)         Borrower and CNCA to prepare   partial compliance
project completion report     CNCA's report not
received
3.04 (d)         Borrower to devise M&E System   Partial compliance
4.03             2 road-maintenance brigades to  in compliance
be established
Sch2 Part.C (b)   Input centres repair shops to be  in compliance
leased to private suppliers/
distributors or farmers
4.02 (c)         Audit of project accounts to be   in compliance
prepared and sent to Bank
3.04 (b)         Quantity and annual reports   in compliance
2.03             Procurement according to      in compliance     
guidelines and schedule 4 of loan
Agreement
3.02 (b)         Employment of consultants for    Partial compliance
research, hillside farming and
MSE
3.06             Collect water charges 100%    under discussion
Operation and Maintenance (Mgt management study
of System to be ONEP          carried out
responsability)
3.07             Borrower to enter into convention  in compliance
of work with farmers for soil
conservaton works.
Schedule 2.B     Subloans by CNCA in accordance in compliance
with defined lending policies



-30-
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
TO
TASK           FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY86  FY69   FY90   FY91   FY92  Total
Preparation              42.6     -                                                                       42.6
Appraisal               128.6      -      -              -      -      -                                 128.6
Negotiations/Board        5.9     -       -      -       -      -      _      .         _       _          5.9
Loan Processing (LOP)   24.1      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -    24.1
Sub-total               201.2      -      -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -   201.2
Supervision              42.2    9.5   10.6   10.6   19.1    4.8    5.4    5.0    3.5    1.0         -   111.7
Annual Implementation      -              -      -     0.4      -      -       -      -      -       -     0.4
Review
Project Administration   0.8      -       -      -      -       -      -             0.1     -      -      0.9
Project Completion         -              -      -      -       -      -      -       -    16.5    1.1   17.6
Report
Sub-total                43.0    9.5   10.6   10.6   19.5    4.8    5.4    5.0    3.6   17.5    1.1  130.6
TOTAL                   244.2    9.5   10.6   10.6   19.5    4.8    5.4    5.0    3.6   17.5    1.1  331.8
M.... DY.. . . . AB.. L... _.N .h (P. .
M: \KENNEDY\PCRTABLE .PRNI/ch ( Pass 3 )



- 31 -
B. Supervision Missions
Stage of Project          Montb/Year        No. of        Days in    Specialisation27        Performance
Cycle                                 Persons     country1/                            rating of
project3/
Identification4"              5/76                                                                  n/a
Preparation               5/77                                                                   n/a
Appraisal               10/77              7            21               E(2)                  n/a
lEn
A
Con(2)
Lo
Appraisal Follow-up           2/78              5             12              E(2)                   n/a
A
IEn
Lo
Supervision
1                   10/78             2            8/2              A.Le                2/F
2                   4/79             4/a            8/              n/a                n/a
3                  10/79              1            22/               A                  1/-
4                   6/80              1            13/               A                  1/F
5                  11/80              2            17/             A,C                2/M,F
6                   6/81              3            20/             C A                  1/rm
7                    1/82             2             7/2             A,E                 1/m
8                   7/82              3            17/5           A,E ME                1/m
9                   1/83              2            16/             A,E                  2/m
10                  10/83              2             6/             A,E                2/F,M
11                   7/84              2              5             A,E                  2/F
12                   10/84              1            5/2               A                  na
135/                   7/85              5             6            A, T., E              2/F
14                   2/86               1            3/3               A                 2/F
15                  11/87              1            3/3               A                  2/F
166/                  2/88               1             2                I                 n/a
17                   4/88              1            n/a               I                   /a
18                  10/88              1              1               A                  2/F
19                   5/89              1              1               A                   2
20                   6/89              1              2               I                  n/a
21                  12/89              1                              A A                 2
21                   6/90              1              1               A                  n/a
22                   2/91              2              7              A,E                 n/a
1/   Figure after dash (/) indicate actual days spent on supervision (if available).
2/   A - Agricultural; E   Economist; C - Credit Specialist; Con - Consultants; IEn - Irrigation Engineer; L
- Livestock Specialist; La - Legal Specialist; Lo - Loan Officer; ME - Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist; En - Engineer.
3/ 1 - Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deterioration: M - Managerial; F - Financial.
4'      Project preparation was essentially undertaken by Moroccan staff with the assistance of FAD/CP. Several
FAD/CP missions tcok place between 5/76 and 5/77 for reconnaissance, pre-ident.fication and preparation.
Manpower details are not available.
5/  Mid-term review,
6/   Partial Supervision of Rural Watersupply Schemes only. Some staff paid a visit in July 1988.



