Document of
The World Bank
FIL E COPY01
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2340-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
June 14, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00         DH 4.30
DH 1.00    =    US$0.233.
Fiscal Year:     Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA - Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (National Agricultural
Credit Institution)
CLCA - Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole (local branch of CNCA)
MARA - Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la RUforme Agraire
(Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:              US$65.0 million.
Terms:               Amortization 24 years including a 6-year grace period
at the ,standard Bank interest rate. 1/
Relending Terms:    US$12.7 million equivalent would be on-lent by the Govern-
ment to the National Agricultural Credit Institution (CNCA)
at the same interest rate as the proposed Bank loan. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:         The Project aims to (i) improve the standard of living of
about 33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000
hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region of Morocco and (ii)
contribute to growth of agricultural production and to a
decline in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodi-
ties. These aims would be achieved through a reorganiza-
tion and strengthening of agricultural services and
provision of infrastructure. The Project would provide
funds and facilities to increase the productivity of about
20,000 small farmers through access to an improved exten-
sion se!rvice and short term credit for the purchase of
recommended input packages. A pilot erosion control
program on 23,000 ha would include a hillside farming and
a wasteland improvement component supported by an adaptive
research program. Infrastructure components include road
construction, village water supply, and creation of health
and education facilities. The Project would be implemented
by the Agriculture Ministry's Provincial Service in Fes.
Ninety percent of the farm families who would benefit from
the Project presently live below the absolute poverty
level. The Project would improve Morocco's balance of
trade through saving foreign exchange equal to about US$23
million per annum. Risks typical for agriculture and
rural development projects have been assessed through risk
analvsis and have been accounted for in Project design.
The Project is potentially replicable in the remainder of
the country's cereal growing region.
1/   These terms are justified on project grounds; it is planned to make com-
pensating adjustments in the terms of forthcoming loans to Morocco in
order to maintain the standard terms (20 years including a 5-year period
of grace) on the country lending program for Morocco.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost                                             US$ Million
Estimates:                                         Local   Foreign   Total
(i)  Agricultural Production Services         20.6       6.2     26.8
(ii) Incremental Farm Inputs and Farm
Investments                               5.0       7.4     12.4
(iii)  Roads & Water Supply                     22.9      22.6     45.5
(iv)  Credit Outlets and Input Supply           3.6       0.3      3.9
(v)  Health & Education Infrastructure         6.6       1.3      7.9
(vi)  Studies                                   0.8       1.3      2.1
(vii)  Price & Physical Contingencies           37.0      25.9     62.9
Total Project Cost                       96.5      65.0    161.5
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan                                  -       65.0     65.0
Government                               85.9        -      85.9
CNCA                                      8.4        -       8.4
Farmers                                   2.2        -       2.2
Total                                    96.5      65.0    161.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        US$ Million
FY    80    81    82    83    84    85    86
Annual                        3.0   7.0  12.0  14.0  12.0  10.0   7.0
Cumulative                    3.0  10.0  22.0  36.0  48.0  58.0  65.0
Rate of Return:     21 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2017 MOR of June 12, 1978
Regional Projects Department EMENA



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$65 million, to finance a
proposed Fes-Karia Tissa ALgriculture Project. The loan would have a term of
24 years including 6 years of grace with interest at 7.50 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-MOR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic mission
visited Morocco in February/March 1978 in preparation of a basic economic
mission scheduled for November 1978. The findings and conclusions of this
mission are reflected in the following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        Over the past year, Morocco completed the return towards a parlia-
mentary regime. Following the national consensus that had resulted from
the Western Sahara issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and
national elections between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties
with platforms stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections
in the larger cities, whi]Le at the provincial level, the rural constituencies
supported Government candiidates, who obtained a majority of 141 seats out of
264 in the National Assembly. The post-election Government formed in October
1977, brought back into political responsibility the Istiqlal party which
had been in the oppositioni since 1963, and the Mouvement Populaire whose main
support is in the Berber areas of the country. The new Cabinet was appointed
with the explicit mandate to prepare and implement economic austerity measures,
the first of which were included in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the
social development objectives introduced with the 1973-77 Development Plan.
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation has been less balanced
in 1977 than in previous years. The rapid growth of investments and imports,
carried over from 1974-75 when phosphate export receipts reached an all-time
high, did not slow down despite Government restrictions, while the world
demand for Morocco's main exports, especially phosphate, recovered only
moderately. At the same tLime, efforts to increase budgetary savings were
insufficient to meet the continued increase in expenditures on investment
and security. As a resulit, Morocco registered a large resource gap (15 per-
cent of GDP) and overall lbudget deficit (15 percent of GDP), not including
special military import payments and offsetting external grants. To cover
these deficits, Morocco sharply increased external borrowings to $1.7 billion



- 2 -
(commitments), from $878 million in 1976 and $710 million in 1975; most were
from commercial sources. Despite these borrowings, the country's net foreign
assets stayed at a-rather low level (1.2 months of 1977 imports by year's
end). On the domestic side, external borrowings have fueled monetary expan-
sion which remained rapid in 1977; consumer prices rose nearly 13 percent
over 1976 compared to about 8 percent in the previous two years.
5.        The Government intends to reverse these unfavorable trends.  A first
policy package was introduced last fall with the 1978 Budget Law, which cut
Government investment expenditure by DH 2 billion (4 percent of 1977 GDP),
introduced tax measures which should yield an estimated DH 550 million (1
percent of 1977 GDP) and contained current expenditure in sectors other than
education, health and defense. Private credit expansion was limited to 3 per-
cent for the first six months of 1978 and a number of imports were subjected
to quantitative restrictions or higher tariffs. Implementation of major
public projects has been postponed including that of a steel plant at Nador.
These measures may cause total investment to decline by 22 percent in 1978 and
reduce GDP growth to less than 4 percent, resulting in a substantial reduc-
tion in demand for imported capital and intermediate goods. Simultaneously,
favorable weather conditions during the past winter should result in record
crops enabling Morocco to reduce imports, particularly of cereals. Further,
external demand for phosphate rock is picking up and phosphate exports may
reach their 1974 peak level without a recovery of prices, however. As a
result, Morocco's resource gap may narrow to about 9 percent of GDP in 1978,
and external borrowing needs may be reduced to around $1 billion in commitment
terms.
6.        The policy measures introduced in early 1978 should therefore be
quite effective towards re-balancing the economy. They essentially mean
retrenchment and will be costly in terms of foregone GDP growth and employ-
ment creation. Furthermore, the Government is aware that additional measures
will probably be needed late in 1978 in order to achieve the objective of
putting the economy back on a financially sound growth path for the medium
term. The Government is likely then to adopt a policy mix which will put less
emphasis on retrenchment, and give more weight to export promotion and addi-
tional tax measures.
Status of Planning
7.        The Government has decided to postpone introduction of the 1978-82
Plan to take proper account of the country's financial circumstances. It will
soon submit to Parliament its policy objectives for the 1978-82 Plan periods.
On the basis of discussions in Parliament, an investment program with detailed
sectoral proposals would be prepared by the State Planning Secretariat, and
the final 1978-82 Plan presented for approval to Parliament early in 1979. In
the meantime, ministries and other Government agencies will be operating under
the 1978 budget law, which includes projects carried over from the 1973-77
Plan, and a few new projects, and under next year's budget law which is to be
approved by Parliament in the fall of this year.



- 3 -
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I respond to the new Govern-
ment's keen concern of avoiding a liquidity crisis in the next two to three
years. They assume sharp policy adjustments in order to keep the economy on
a financially viable growth path over the long run, but also reflect the
Government's desire to maintain adequate GDP and employment growth during the
adjustment period, and to achieve further progress towards the country's
social objectives. The projections show that investment and GDP growth will
have to be curtailed for the next three to four years, given the short-term
constraints on savings and exports. In this period, Morocco will need
substantial capital transfers from abroad to sustain the projected investment
and GDP growth levels; these transfers should be on terms as favorable as
possible in view of the debt service limits. Beyond 1982, Morocco's good
export prospects should enable it to resume rapid growth of investments,
output and employment while progressively reducing the burden of debt and debt
service.
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
9.        In the original 1973-77 Plan, annual GDP growth was to average 7.5
percent, sustained by rapid export expansion (10 percent p.a.) and a doubling
of investments between 1972 and 1977. Following the large windfalls in foreign
exchange and domestic savings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the
investment target was raised to meet cost increases and some real expansion
of original investment programs, and especially to undertake large capital-
intensive projects geared to import substitution (in particular sugar, chemi-
cals, shipping and steel).
10.       The GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met.  Investment rose
to nearly 32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972. In
the process, Morocco built up its capacity to prepare, implement and absorb
projects, not only in traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-
substitution industries and physical infrastructure, but also in new and
more difficult sectors such as rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export
industries, and socially-oriented programs. There is little doubt that
Morocco can achieve the investment levels assumed in the Bank projections.
11.       The major shortcoming in the past, and the main problem for the
years ahead, concerns domestic savings, which returned in 1977 to about the
same level (14 percent) as in 1972 after a brief increase to 16 percent
during the phosphate windfall years. The reasons lie mainly with the low
Government savings of only 4.5 percent of GDP in 1977. Successful efforts
to raise current Government revenues to 23 percent of GDP in 1977 were offset
by increases in current spending, partly for education and health, but also
for price subsidies and military expenses. To increase public savings in
future will require tax reform measures, which were called for in the 1973-
77 Plan but were not implemented, and unpopular price policy decisions, such
as reducing subsidies to urban consumers, farmers and industrial investors.
In particular, improving domestic resource mobilization would require adjust-
ing interest rates to reflect changes in the rate of domestic price inflation.



12.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 2 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions, such as textiles, export production
and marketing were not sufficiently improved, and new markets were not aggres-
sively sought; the dependence on EEC (especially French) demand continued.
Yet, Morocco has considerable export potential which can be realized if
product and market diversification is pursued aggressively. Export programs
are under preparation especially in phosphate, its derivatives, fresh and
processed foodstuffs, and tourism. Regarding phosphate, Morocco and the USSR
have signed agreements in March, under which Morocco should be able to export
phosphate rock and phosphoric acid for the next thirty years in amounts
possibly rising to 10 million tons per year by 1985-86; in return, the USSR
will lend Morocco up to $2 billion on favorable terms to develop its phosphate
export capacity and will export various commodities and goods to Morocco,
including crude oil. These agreements substantially improve Morocco's long-
term prospects for phosphate exports.
13.       While the new Government's stress on completion of high-return proj-
ects will have to be continued, a qualitative shift in investment, away from
the recent emphasis on highly capital intensive, import substitution invest-
ments, as well as from some of its ambitious programs for physical infrastruc-
ture, will also be needed. A major study on industrial investment strategy,
which consultants are currently completing for the Government, should facil-
itate a better investment selection. A changed investment pattern should help
both to reduce the external resource gap, and to contribute to growth and
employment at lower investment and import costs than in recent years.
Social Development Strategy
14.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to
the early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and per-
ceptible declines in real consumption for the weaker sections of Morocco's
population. The 1973-77 Plan set out, as a national objective, to reverse
these unfavorable trends. The Government's strategy since 1973 has empha-
sized: (i) acceleration of employment creation; (ii) general measures aimed
at reducing income disparities, and (iii) specific investment programs tar-
getted on the least favored population groups.
15.       Progress has been made towards attaining these objectives, as wit-
nessed for example by the increased expenditures for social sectors (from DH
1.3 billion in 1972 to DH 3.7 billion in 1977). However, institutions, often
newly established to meet social sector objectives, are in many instances
still fragile. Understaffing and weak policy analysis and program formulation
are still common in many such institutions. Public programs to improve pro-
ductivity, collective amenities and social services are, as a result, reaching
relatively small proportions of the large groups, especially in rural areas.
To add to this, in the period of financial stringency ahead, Morocco may not
be able to sustain the current level of expenditures on socially oriented



- 5 -
sectors, and cuts may becomes inevitable in 1979--they were spared in 1978--as
part of the measures to re-balance the economy.
16.       With the population growth rate now at about 3 percent, the pres-
sure to provide adequate social services will increase and it will become
increasingly incumbent on the Government, despite its short-term financial
constraints, to intensify its effort to limiting such growth. Consequently
both health and family planning services will have to be quantitatively and
qualitatively strengthened to meet the Government's social objectives.
External Debt And Debt Service
17.       Morocco has sharply increased external borrowings since 1973
(para. 4). Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources.
With a hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity shortened
from 19 to 10 years and average interest rose from 5 to 7.5 percent between
1974 and 1977. Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in
early 1976, and requested an extension into the conditional tranches in March
1978. From the low levels registered in 1974-75, Morocco's external debt has
risen rapidly to an estimated $3.8 billion (disbursed only) at the end of
1977, and in that year debt service amounted to nearly $250 million (13 per-
cent of exports; 10 percent of exports and workers' remittances). As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt and debt service may be
expected to increase further, and the debt service ratio may reach a peak of
about 23 percent of exports and workers' remittances by 1980-82, and decline
progressively thereafter. The country's net foreign assets may be expected
to remain at a relatively low level. Because of the expected upswing in debt
service, external debt management has become more restrictive and selective
in 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue
this policy over the next few years. Additional commercial borrowing should
be limited, and increased efforts should be made to seek loans on softer
terms. External borrowing requirements are likely to be sizeable. Assuming
debt service should not in any year exceed 25 percent of exports and workers'
remittances, Bank projections foresee average annual borrowing needs of
$1.3 billion in 1978-82 and $1.5 billion in 1983-87 in terms of commitments.
Beyond 1980, however, the situation should progressively improve with the
Government exercising firm control over domestic demand, and good long-term
prospects for exports--in particular, of assured sales of phosphate rock and
phosphate derivatives.  Morocco should therefore be considered creditworthy
for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
18.       Bank and IDA lencling to Morocco has supported 36 projects, financ-
ing a total of $853.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $640 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling $50 mil-
lion, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for
$25 million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $12.6 million ($10.5 million after cancellations,



- 6 -
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1978, and
notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays
in project implementation have been caused by management or procurement
difficulties, and in 1974 cost overruns increased due to the upsurge in
investment activity in Morocco and the acceleration of inflation. However,
overall performance in project execution has considerably improved during
the last three years. Total disbursements as of December 31, 1977, amounted
to 81 percent of original appraisal forecasts and to 85 percent of revised
forecasts.
19.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 31 and 34 percent, respectively,
of total net commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (18 percent),
tourism (8 percent), roads (5 percent), education (4 percent) and urban devel-
opment (2 percent). Apart from the transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank
Group gross disbursements amounted to 5.5 percent of total fixed investment in
1970-74), the main objectives of lending were to foster and strengthen develop-
ment institutions, provide technical assistance especially for project prepa-
ration, and increase productive capacity, particularly in order to improve the
balance of payments.
20.       While these objectives remain, greater emphasis is being given to
prepare projects that support the Government's policy of fostering social
development and improving income distribution. An increasing share of Bank
Group lending will be devoted to projects directly or indirectly developing
the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural income groups and
meeting their basic needs, including, possibly, Bank participation in the
Government's program for promoting integrated regional development, which is
under discussion.
21.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, the improvement of the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to support small farmers
and the development of rainfed areas. The proposed project would be the
second, after the Meknes Project (Credit 555-MOR), to directly address these
objectives, with the added advantage of being located in the favorable cereal
producing zone. An integrated rural development project, including livestock/
forestry development is under preparation in a rainfed zone in northern
Morocco, as are projects aiming at extending agricultural credit to rural
farmers and at developing production, marketing and processing of vegetables
on small holdings.
22.       Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies.
The recently approved eighth loan to BNDE included a pilot small-scale industry
component. A follow-up project to promote labor intensive investments is under
preparation. A loan to finance the addition of a fourth production line of
phosphoric acid for the Maroc Phosphore Plant financed under Loan 1017-MOR is



being presented for the consideration of the Executive Directors concurrently.
Continued lending for industry through the Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) is contemplated as well as further lending to Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development. A project is also under
consideration to assist the Government's efforts to further develop Morocco's
ports for the general cargo handling.
23.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of one loan for water
supply, two loans for power and one engineering loan for the preparation
of a sewerage project for Casablanca. A follow up project for water supply
and distribution in urban centers is under preparation, as are a sewerage
project in Agadir and a village electrification project.
24.       Education continues to need attention in ensuring Morocco's develop-
ment. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary education
and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training, and to
expand facilities in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis on technical
education is being appraised.
25.       In the urban sector, the recently approved Rabat project was the
first Bank-financed project. Follow up projects are under consideration to
support the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban development
through the provision of b'asic infrastructure, housing and social services
and the creation of employment opportunities.
26.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $221 million in 1975 to $294 million in 1976 and $634
million in 1977. The major sources of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE,
the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's
share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was 10
percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 24 percent in 1976
and declined to a 14 percent in 1977. By 1983 the Bank Group's shares in debt
outstanding and in debt service are expected to be about 23 percent and 11
percent, respectively.
PAtT III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
27.       Morocco's population is estimated in mid 1977 at 17.5 million, of
which about two-thirds live in rural areas. In recent years population growth
has averaged 2.9 percent p.a. overall; growth in the urban and the rural
sectors have averaged 5.2 and 1.6 percent p.a. respectively, the difference
being accounted for by rural-urban migration. Agriculture contributes about
25 percent of GDP and provides employment for about one-half of the labor
force. Agricultural exports account for 25 percent of total exports.
28.       Morocco's total cultivated area is estimated at 7.6 million hectares,
of which 876,000 are irrigated. Major crops are cereals and pulses which are



- 8 -
mostly grown in rainfed areas where production is still generally character-
ized by traditional farm practices that result in low crop yields and low
incomes compared to the potential of the land. Irrigated areas produce the
major part of the country's fruit, vegetables, sugar, cotton and forage.
There has been a succession of years with unfavorable weather conditions
recently (three out of five during 1973-77); partly for this reason, domestic
agricultural production has not kept up in recent years with the growing and
changing patterns of demand caused by urbanization and population growth. The
result has been a rapid increase in food imports.
29.       Past agricultural investments have been heavily weighted towards
expensive infrastructure projects, notably the creation of large scale irriga-
tion perimeters. Funds earmarked for agricultural development were largely
used to construct buildings and purchase equipment. The irrigation sector
also benefitted from a large share of the operating budgets allocated to
agriculture, the assignment of the best agricultural staff and the major part
of Government subsidies, notably for irrigation water. As a result, the
recent growth in agriculture has benefitted a minority (12 percent) of farmers
growing irrigated crops such as sugar beet, vegetables and wheat. Attempts
during the last five years to redress this imbalance and to reach a greater
number of traditional farmers in rainfed areas have been constrained by tech-
nical difficulties in preparing projects that effectively and economically
benefit small farmers and landless farm laborers and by the limited albeit
growing absorptive capacity of the Government services. These constraints
are reflected in the low ratio of actual to authorized disbursements which
averaged about 50 percent during the 1973-77 Plan period. The Government
appears determined to redress this situation: under the 1978-82 Plan, the
Government is expected to launch a major effort to develop the potential of
the rainfed sector (while maintaining momentum in the irrigated sector) and to
allocate to it a larger share of financial and staff resources. The system of
price subsidies is under review and proposals for increasing irrigation water
tariffs and the cost recovery provisions of Agricultural Investment Code are
expected. The Government is also considering setting up a national center for
agricultural studies to assist it in identifying and preparing priority proj-
ects. Future Bank agricultural operations in Morocco are aimed to assist
Morocco to establish a better balance between projects primarily benefitting
irrigated and rainfed areas and would be largely focussed on small and medium
farmers.
30.       The effectiveness of the agricultural research and extension ser-
vices could be considerably increased, especially in the rainfed areas.
Research, which suffers from an overly theoretical orientation, could benefit
by being increasingly geared to adaptive research based on farm profitability,
with tests carried out under actual farm conditions. The extension services
are presently burdened with time consuming administrative tasks which limit
their ability to provide technical assistance to farmers. They also suffer
from a lack of practical farming experience and a high attrition rate. Out-
side irrigation perimeters, the adoption of more modern technology has been
constrained by the absence of an integrated approach: past efforts have
focussed on the adoption of individual modern inputs (e.g. fertilizers, seeds,



etc.) while their isolated introduction into traditional cultivation patterns
has not generally yielded the anticipated benefits. Technical assistance
in both the above fields would be useful. USAID has offered assistance to
improve agricultural research in rainfed farming areas receiving less than 400
mm. rainfall annually. Solutions to these issues, which have been addressed
by the Bank in its sector work and the Meknes and Doukkala II Irrigation proj-
ects, are at the core of the proposed project.
31.       Distribution of private land in Morocco is relatively skewed; about
50 percent of the farm families have 5 ha or less and own about 20 percent of
the total agricultural land. A modest agrarian reform program involving the
distribution of some 270,ClOO hectares of land taken over from foreign owners
to some 18,000 beneficiaries was carried out during 1973-76. An extension
of this program by expropriating large Moroccan holdings is not considered
politically feasible and could be costly in terms of production losses. Fur-
thermore such a program could at best provide viable sized holdings to less
than 5 percent of the mass of the rural population that is landless or owns
submarginal holdings. However, there are two land tenure issues requiring
resolution: (i) fragmentation of private lands which results in an average
parcel (0.5 ha) too small for efficient farming. This issue has been success-
fully addressed in irrigation projects and a first step towards replicating
this experience in rainfed areas is being carried out under the Meknes Proj-
ect. Results could be incorporated into the Phase II Project to be prepared
in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region. (ii) Regulation of lands owned by absentee
landlords for speculative purposes and tenancy provisions pertaining to these
lands. An obligation to cultivate the land and introduction of regulations to
increase the security of tenure to provide the tenant farmer with an incentive
to invest and improve the land are being considered by the Government. Solu-
tions to this issue, however, may only be expected in the medium term.
32.       About 45 percent of Moroccan farm families live below the absolute
poverty level of $220 and are underemployed. The issues discussed above have
acted as constraints in reducing rural poverty and generating employment
outside of irrigated areas. Other contributing factors include the limited
access of the rural poor to institutionalized credit and a somewhat ineffi-
cient input supply system which favors large farmers. Government strategy has
evolved considerably and a serious effort can now be expected in the rainfed
sector, benefitting a greater percentage of small farmers. As mentioned
above, agrarian reform offers little scope for significantly reducing rural
poverty or increasing employment. The Bank has increasingly targeted its
agricultural projects in Morocco on the rural poor: over 45 percent of Bank
financing under the Third Agricultural Credit Project (L-1361-MOR) would
benefit small farmers who are also the major beneficiaries of the two Doukkala
Irrigation and the Meknes projects. The proposed project addresses these
issues and most of the social infrastructure components are directed to small
farmers.
33.       One of the consequences of increasing population pressure in rural
areas is the deterioration of some of the nation's crop and grazing land. In
areas such as the pre-Rif, the foothills of the Atlas Mountains, the Sebou and
other watersheds, insufficient measures have been taken to control erosion



- 10 -
and have met with increasing resistance from the population who have tradition-
ally benefitted from use of the land. The proposed Project, and the Loukkos
Project now being prepared, are both located in areas facing high erosion
risks and would seek to introduce new ways of eliciting farmer acceptance and
cooperation for the considerable soil conservation components required within
respective project areas.
34.       Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to
date 10 projects have been undertaken amounting to a total of $278 million,
of which $24 million in IDA credits. They include five irrigation projects:
Sidi Slimane (FY65, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75),
Doukkala I (FY76), and Doukkala II (FY77); three Agricultural Credit Projects
(FY66, completed, FY73, FY77); an Agroindustries and Flood Control Project
(Sebou II, FY74); and a rainfed Agricultural Development Project in the Meknes
region (FY75). Performance has generally been satisfactory except for Sebou
II and Meknes Projects. An OED report on the First Agricultural Credit
Project in Morocco was discussed in the appraisal of a Third Agricultural
Credit Project (Report No. 1308-MOR), December 1976. 1/ It highlighted the
low economic return to the farm mechanization financed through the project and
noted some weaknesses in the management of the National Agricultural Credit
Institution (CNCA). The appraisal report cited above found that CNCA had been
considerably strengthened since the first Bank loan. The proposed Project
includes no credit for farm mechanization.
35.       Performance in irrigation projects suffered initially from problems
in land distribution, organization, construction, acquisition of equipment,
and cost recovery. Implementation delays have also been caused in some cases
by insufficient coordination between participating Ministries and government
agencies. During the implementation of the Sebou II Project land acquisition
held up the construction of flood protection works. This problem is under
review by both the Government and the Bank in light of further irrigation
development in the Sebou River Basin. The urgency of this problem was
heightened by a flood in 1977 which caused serious damage. The major issues
in the Meknes Project concern the execution of the land redistribution program
and delays in project implementation caused by lack of interdepartmental and
ministerial coordination; they are now well on the way to being resolved.
Similar problems should not affect the proposed project since it includes no
land distribution component and since the Provincial and Central Committees
set up to coordinate the execution of the project components have already been
established and have participated in project preparation (see para. 45).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       Background.  The proposed Project was identified in May 1976 by a
mission of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) and was prepared by
the Government with the assistance of several FAO/CP and Bank missions. Its
identification and preparation are the outcome of ongoing policy discussions
1/   OED Report:  Agricultural Credit Programs, Background Paper No. 4.



- 11 -
between the Government andl the Bank on the need to attach higher priority and
increase investments to bienefit the rainfed areas in Morocco where 88 percent
of the farm population lives and 70 percent of agricultural production origi-
nates. The project was conceived to serve as a model for the development of
high potential cereal growing areas in Morocco and encompasses a number of
innovative approaches to agricultural development which would be carried out
on a trial basis. It embodies many of the Government's new ideas for soil
conservation, farmer organization, increasing the impact of Government agri-
cultural services, including extension, training, credit, input supply at an
affordable cost which would permit application of the approaches and programs
developed under the project in other rainfed areas with high production
potential. The Project also includes the rehabilitation and development of
the secondary road network as well as complementary social infrastructure for
education, health services, and potable water supply. The Project reflects
the increased emphasis accorded by the Government to projects with social
objectives: about 90 percent of the Project area population are estimated
to be living at or below the absolute poverty level, compared to 45 percent
nationally, and most of the Project benefits would accrue to them. Bank
appraisal of the proposed Project was undertaken in September/October 1977 and
in February 1978. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington
May 12 to 19, 1978. The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Belkoura of the
Prime Minister's Office. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of the
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project, Kingdom of Morocco" (No. 2017-MOR) dated
June 12, 1978 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The
main features of the loan and Project are summarized in Annex III.  A map (No.
13377R) of the proposed P'roject area is attached.
37.       Objectives and Description of the Project.  The primary objective of
the proposed project is to improve the living standards of some 33,900 farm
families (about 160,000 persons) who cultivate 256,000 hectares or 96 percent
of the arable land in the Project area. This would be achieved principally
through increasing the agricultural production and farm incomes of about
27,000 farmers, including about 20,000 small farmers who would be the main
beneficiaries of the project. It would result in lessening Morocco's recourse
to imports of foodstuffs, especially basic commodities such as grains, which
have grown rapidly in recent years and become an increasing burden on Morocco's
balance of payments. The objectives of increasing rural incomes and agri-
cultural production correspond to the sector priorities adopted by the Govern-
ment and supported by the Bank. A successful replication of the Project
methodologies, including experience gained in coordinating production and
infrastructure investments, could contribute substantially to resolving rural
development issues. The Project includes a proposal for setting up a moni-
toring and evaluation unit to monitor the impact of the project.
38.       The Project would consist of the following:
-    reorganization and strengthening of the extension services,
construction of facilities and housing, and provision of
equipment for extension staff;



- 12 -
a farm management training course for extension agents,
overseas training for selected specialists and a home
economics course for women;
agricultural credit to cover project needs for incremental
short term credits and medium and long-term credits for fruit
tree plantation, introduction of new lending criteria, and
provision of six mobile credit outlets and supporting infra-
structure and equipment;
improvements to  the supply of farm inputs, including con-
struction of distribution centers and machinery repair shops;
implementation of soil and water conservation measures on a
trial basis including programs for hillside farming and
wasteland improvement, and supported by an adaptive research
and demonstration program;
rehabilitation and construction of 414 km of secondary roads
and strengthening of road maintenance service;
construction of two water supply systems serving about 176
villages, including treatment plant and piped distribution
to standpipes;
construction of 68 classrooms, teacher housing units and
related infrastructure;
construction of 4 rural health centers, 1 rural dispensary,
housing for staff and provision of equipment; and
carrying out of a complementary feasibility study for a
Loukkos Rural Development Project and of a feasibility study
to prepare a follow up project in Fes-Karia-Tissa Project
Area.
39.       Extension and Training.  Under the Project, the extension services
would be strengthened by the addition of 48 agents so that a ratio of 1 agent
to about 400 farm families would prevail. Agents would operate out of 18
agricultural centers, one in each of the Project Area's administrative dis-
tricts, which would coordinate extension work in all subject matters. Super-
vision of these activities would be the responsibility of the Project Manager.
Four subject matter specialists would provide backstopping in cereals, pulses,
olives and livestock production. The extension program would be reoriented
to promote the adoption of higher yielding and profit oriented technical pack-
ages for land cultivation principally through direct contact with individual
farmers and farmer groups but also through village meetings. An audio-visual
support unit would be created to back up extension activities. Administrative



- 13 -
tasks presently carried out by extension agents would be transferred to admin-
istrative officers to be appointed in each agricultural center (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). As a result it is expected that extension agents
will be able to spend at least 75 percent of their time in providing technical
assistance. An additional year of training in farm management would be
offered to some 30 selected graduates of the Sahel Boutahar Agricultural
School located north of the Project area who intend to take up careers in
agricultural extension. Priority would be given to assigning graduates of
this program to the Project area. A program of home economics for women,
including nutrition, basic hygiene and family planning, would be also intro-
duced in the school.
40.       Credit.  The Project would provide incremental short term credit
to small farmers enabling them to purchase the modern farm inputs, including
seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and machine services. Credit for farm
machinery would not be provided under the Project since an adequate amount of
mechanization credit is available, and since more rapid mechanization would
have a negative employment and income distribution effect. The staff and
facilities of the National Agricultural Credit Institution (CNCA) would be
increased in the Project area to administer the increased loan volume and to
make credit more accessible to small farmers. In order to reduce the adminis-
trative cost per farmer and the risk of defaults, and to permit CNCA to reach
a larger number of small farmers, a system of mobile credit vans would be
introduced. Small farmers would be encouraged and assisted by extension
agents to form groups numbering five to ten members, which would submit joint
applications for credit. Repayment would be the joint legal obligation of
each farmer's group. New criteria for loan approval would be introduced based
on the potential income and repayment capacity of farmers. Credit requirements
would be estimated on the basis of the technical package appropriate to the
farmer, as recommended by ithe extension agent and appraised by the local CNCA
agent. It would replace the existing system which relies on tax declarations
to estimate farmers' incomes.
41.       Input Supply.  Under the Project, responsibility for supplying agri-
cultural inputs, including seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, and for providing
repair services for agricultural machinery would be shifted from the Govern-
ment extension centers to private and public sector suppliers and service
cooperatives. They would lease from the Government farm input supply stores
and repair shops which would be constructed in each of the 18 agricultural
centers. The proposed arrangements would increase che access of small farmers
to inputs and facilitate communication between extension agents and suppliers
owners. Under the terms of the leases, the lessees would be required to supply
farm inputs to farmers in adequate amounts in a timely manner, and at reason-
able prices (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part C (b)).
42.       Hillside Farming, Wasteland Improvement and Adaptive Research.
About 130,000 ha or one half of the Project's cultivated area, is sufficiently
sloping to require soil and water conservation measures. In addition, there
are some 70,000 ha of land that is barren or sparsely covered with grasses or



- 14 -
bushes and rapidly eroding. In contrast to previous Government efforts in
conservation, which have been largely limited to mandatory tree planting
programs on eroding public lands and which have encountered increasing resis-
tance from farmers and livestock owners, the Project proposes to follow an
experimental and integrated approach to introduce conservation measures on
private lands based on voluntary cooperation by farmers. A number of small
watersheds would be selected and an overall program of hillside farming and
wasteland improvement drawn up. Hillside farming techniques would be installed
and demonstrated on a pilot basis on about 6,500 ha based on the introduction
of contour farming, grassed waterways, and planting of permanent vegetation by
specialized teams attached to the extension centers. Following this demonstra-
tion program, cooperating farmers would apply the program to the remainder of
their holdings. On wastelands, the Project would begin rehabilitation by
planting pine, acacia, and olive trees and establishing gully control and
range management measures on a total of some 18,000 ha. Such works would be
carried out by specialized teams of foresters attached to the extension
centers using hired labor recruited locally. These components would be car-
ried out within the legal framework of Morocco's Agricultural Investment Code
which provides for soil conservation contracts to be entered into between the
Government and farmers. The Bank would be consulted in preparing prototype
contracts. Cost recovery is expected to be low (about 20 percent) due to the
population's limited ability to pay. The Project also includes a pilot program
of adaptive research to be carried out partly on a small station to be created
in the Project area and partly on farmers' lands in order to address the specific
needs of the hillside farming and wasteland improvement components. If suc-
cessful, these components would be expanded during the second phase of the
Project and could have far reaching effects throughout Morocco's extensive
mountain areas.
43.       Infrastructure.  The project provides for improvement in the area's
road network, education, public health, and water supply systems to complement
the agricultural components in improving the population's well being. An all
weather secondary road network is a necessary condition to the Project's
success, both to assure movement of the increased volume of farm inputs, goods
and support services in the Project area and to improve the access of the
population to schools, health centers and markets. Due to the hilly terrain,
difficult soil conditions and the absence in the past of adequate maintenance
services, an existing secondary and feeder road network has fallen into a
serious state of disrepair with most of the roads being impassable, at least
during the rainy season. The project would provide for (i) the rehabilitation
of some 275 km of existing roads and (ii) the construction of some 139 km of
roads following the profile and alignment of existing dirt tracks. In view
of the high cost of building roads in the Project area, all roads would be
built to minimum technical standards, unless justified by traffic projections.
In addition, for each road falling in category (ii) above an economic analysis
of the production related costs and benefits in the zone of influence of the
road would be carried out as part of the detailed engineering; disbursements
would only be made for roads serving an area for which a satisfactory economic



- 15 -
rate of return can be established (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Part E 1(a)). Two road maintenance brigades would be created and equipped not
later than December 31, 1980, and maintained in operation for the life of the
Projects (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
44.       Most of the potable water requirements in Project area are met from
shallow wells which only allow for a daily human consumption of 10 liters on
average. Water is generally of poor quality, especially in summer when the
wells tend to dry up. As the first phase of a long term program to remedy
this situation, the Project would provide for the construction of two systems
covering about 20 percent of the Project area. Treated water would be piped
to standpipes serving some 176 villages with about 46,000 inhabitants and
82,000 animals. The proposed systems are costly to construct and maintain as
they would utilize surface water resources. This choice was dictated by the
inadequacy of supplies from shallow wells and the impracticability of alter-
native systems such as the construction of cisterns or trucking in water
which, furthermore, could not permit the substantial increase in both human
and livestock consumption projected under the project. In addition to
providing access to larger quantities of good quality water, the Project's
water supply component would also reduce the time spent in and cost of trans-
porting water over long distances. The experience gained under the Project
would be used in preparing additional water supply systems to be undertaken in
the second phase project .now under preparation. Water tariffs would be set
up to fully recover operations and maintenance costs and would be collected
from the villages served. A study of the beneficiaries' ability to pay higher
tariffs and thereby contribute to investment costs, would be undertaken in the
context of project monitoring and evaluation (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.06 (a)). The public health component would consist of the construction
equipment and staffing of four health centers and a rural dispensary which are
needed to bring public health facilities up to national norms. Under the edu-
cation component sixty eight classrooms would be constructed or rehabilitated
in existing schools and teacher housing and other facilities provided. These
actions would bring faciLities in the Project area up to national standards.
45.       Project Implementation and Management.  The Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform (MARA) would be responsible for the overall execution of
the project and would imlplement the extension, training, input supply, hill-
side farming and wastela!nd improvement and water supply components. The
existing Central Project Coordination Committee chaired by the Director of
Agricultural Development, MARA, would be expanded to include representation of
all MARA departments and of all other ministries and government agencies
involved in the project. It would be responsible for coordination of project
activities at the national level. A Provincial Project Committee, chaired by
the Governor of the Province of Fes, and including the Project Director, would
be responsible for ensuring coordination between all provincial services
involved in the Project. The Provincial Director of Agriculture in Fes, who
heads all agricultural services in the Province, would be the Project Director.
He would be responsible for project implementation and serve as the link
between the Project and the Government in Rabat. To assist him in project
implementation and supervision, a Project Manager would be appointed by



- 16 -
October 15, 1978 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). A monitoring and
evaluation system would be established in order to determine on a timely basis
the impact of Project components on Project objectives and to provide informa-
tion to the Project's management on the various actions taken by the agencies
involved in the Project. This unit would prepare a Project Completion Report
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(c)). The Fes Provincial Directorate of
Public Works, Public Health and Education would be directly responsible for
the construction, operation and maintenance of the roads, health and education
components respectively. The Regional Office of CNCA, in close collaboration
with CNCA headquarters, would implement and supervise the agricultural credit
component. CNCA has received three Bank loans and has been appraised to be an
appropriate recipient of Bank financing. The Project would have a six year
construction period and would be completed by December 31, 1984.
46.       Consultants and Overseas Training.  The project would provide (i) 20
man-years of architects/engineers for the design, construction and supervision
of works; (ii) 15 man-years of consultant services required by the innovative
character of the medic research and demonstration, extension training and hill-
side farming and range management programs; and (iii) 22 man-years of consul-
tant services to complete the preparation of the Loukkos Project and prepare
a second phase project emphasizing small scale irrigation, livestock and agro-
industrial development in the Project area. A total of 57 man-years at an
average cost of $7,700 per man-month would be provided. Consulting services
for establishing the monitoring and evaluation unit and for other short term
needs as may be required during project execution are also provided for. The
architects/engineers would be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank by January 31, 1979 (draft Loan Agreement 3.02(a)). The project
would also provide for overseas training of eight months each for 30 appro-
priately qualified technicians in skills and techniques not yet widely applied
in Morocco.
47.       Cost Estimates and Financing Plan.  The Project is estimated to cost
$161.5 million including physical and price contingencies of which $65.0 mil-
lion or 40 percent is in foreign exchange (exclusive of interest during con-
struction). Of the total, 86 percent are investment costs, 14 percent are
establishment costs (operation and maintenance during project start up).
Summary cost estimates are as follows:



- 17 -
Local     Exchange
Cost         Cost       Total
--------US$ Million---------
Agricultural production services /a                  20.6          6.2         26.8
Incremental farm inputs and farm investment           5.0          7.4         12.4
Roads and water supply                               22.9         22.6         45.5
Credit outlets and input supply                       3.6          0.3          3.9
Health and education infrastructure                   6.6          1.3          7.9
Studies                                               0.8          1.3          2.1
Subtotal                                       59.5         39.1         98.6
Price and physical contingencies                     37.0         25.9         62.9
TOTAL                                          96.5         65.0        161.5
/a   Extension, training, wasteland improvement, hillside farming, research,
and demonstration, livestock, and monitoring and evaluation.
Physical contingencies representing 10 percent of all items except salaries
were included in the cost estimate. For civil works, price contingencies
were estimated on the bas:is of an annual rate of price increase of 12 percent
in 1978-79 and 10 percent thereafter. These price contingencies reflect
recent trends in Morocco's civil works industry where inflation persists
above the international level. Corresponding rates for equipment and salaries
were estimated at 7.5 percent and 7 percent respectively. Overall contingen-
cies would amount to 64 percent of the base cost due to the long implementa-
tion period.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of $65 million to the Kingdom of Morocco
would finance Project foreign exchange costs.  The financing plan is as
follows:
US$ Million
Government         Local            Foreign           Total          %
Government         85.9                 -              85.9         53.2
IBRD                 -               65.0              65.0        40.2
CNCA                8.4                -                8.4          5.2
Farmers             2.2                 -               2.2          1.4
Total            96.5              65.0            161.5        100.0
CNCA would provide $8.4 million equivalent to finance local currency costs
of farm credit and credit outlets. Farm credit would cover about 85 percent
of incremental farm input and investment costs with the difference being
financed by farmers. The Government would finance the remainder of the



- 18 -
Project's local currency costs. The Bank loan would have a maturity of 24
years, including a six-year grace period, at an interest rate of 7.50 per-
cent. These terms are justified on project grounds; it is planned to make
compensating adjustments in the terms of forthcoming loans to Morocco in order
to maintain the standard terms (20 years including a 5-year period of grace)
on the country lending program for Morocco. The Government would on-lend to
CNCA by May 31, 1979, in sufficient time to finance the 1979-80 agricultural
campaign, $12.7 million, an amount equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange
cost (including contingencies) of the credit and credit outlets components
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c)). An understanding was reached that
the interest rate on the funds to be on-lent would be equal to the interest
rate on the proposed Bank loan and that the term and grace period would be at
least 13 and 3-1/2 years respectively (the terms the CNCA III Loan 1361-MOR)
but would not exceed the terms of the proposed loan. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Government.  The prevailing interest rates charged
by CNCA were reviewed in the context of the appraisal of the CNCA III Project
and found acceptable. These rates would be applied in the Project area.
49.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for road construction,
road maintenance equipment, water supply construction and vehicles and equip-
ment for agricultural extension services and hillside farming would be made on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) according to the Bank
guidelines. The contracts which would be bulked to stimulate international
interest in the project, would amount to about $63.4 million. Contractors
would be permitted to bid on all or part of a "package" of contracts in order
to attract local contractors. Procurement of civil work for housing, health
and education facilities, administrative and marketing buildings, involving a
large number of small contracts and amounting in total to $18.2 million equiv-
alent, would be handled through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
already determined to be satisfactory to the Bank. These items would not be
suitable for ICB because of their phasing and their dispersion in the Project
area. Procurement by Government agencies of equipment and vehicles on indi-
vidual contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and the purchase of agricul-
tural chemicals and seeds would be made through existing commercial channels,
including domestic and international suppliers, who maintain generally adequate
supplies and are suitably competitive. Works related to hillside farming and
wasteland improvement, which do not lend themselves to other modes of procure-
ment and totalling about $15.8 million, would be undertaken by the Ministry of
Agriculture under Force Account arrangements, mostly involving hiring of local
labor. Consultants' contracts for agriculture and engineering would cost
about $6.4 million.
50.       The proposed Bank loan would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1986 and
would finance the following items:



- 19 -
Loan Amount Disbursement
Category                   Item                 (US$ million)  Percentage
I     Housing and Buildings                      5.5           31
II     Civil Works - Water Supply                 4.5            41
III     Civil Works - Roads                        24.5           50
IV     Equipment and Vehicles                     5.0           100 foreign
expenditures
or 50% local
expenditures
V     Agricultural Credit                        12.5           60
VI     Hillside Farming and Wasteland
Improvement                              4.0           26
VII     Consultants and Overseas Training           4.0          100 foreign
expenditures
or 60% local
expenditures
VIII     Unallocated                                 5.0
TOTAL                                   65.0
Retroactive financing in an amount of $50,000 would be provided to cover the
foreign exchange costs of the roads engineering study.
51.       Project Justification.  The Project would assist Morocco to meet its
national objectives by (i) improving its balance of trade by saving foreign
exchange equal to about $23 million per annum or 4 percent of projected food
imports in 1985, (ii) raising the living standards and consumption levels of
about 33,900 farm families including the incomes of about 20,000 small farmers;
(iii) accelerating economic growth through a rate of return of 21 percent, and
(iv) introducing approaches to agricultural production which respond to the
major issues in Moroccan agriculture, and which would be replicable. These
objectives would be achieved through the systematic introduction of improved
farm inputs and practices by the extension and veterinary services, facilitated
by the increased farmer access to credit, farm inputs and markets. The health,
education, and water supply components were each designed as a least cost
response to existing deficiencies in the Project area and are justified
by the social benefits they generate.
52.       Eighty-five percent of the direct production benefits of the Proj-
ect would accrue to members of the farm population presently living at or
below the absolute poverty level who are estimated to comprise 90 percent of
the total farm population in the Project area. As is typical in rural devel-
opment projects, about 20 percent of the farm population is not expected to
accept the improved farm practices and hence would recuperate little or none
of the net production benefits. These would generally be the smallest farmers
on the least viable holdings. Increased employment opportunities generated
by the Project, in both agricultural and non-agricultural occupations, would



- 20 -
be available to these marginal farmers. The entire Project area population
would share in the benefits of the social infrastructure. The Government
would recover little of the net production benefits since the tax system
is not sufficiently responsive to capture much incremental income from agri-
culture. The cost of the credit component, 80 percent of the operation and
maintenance costs of the water supply component, and about 20 percent of the
costs of the wasteland improvement and hillside farming components would be
directly recovered through loan repayments, water and land improvement charges,
respectively. All other costs involve non-recoverable Government investment
and operating expenditures.
53.       Project Risks.  The risks inherent in agricultural projects discus-
sed by the OED have been considered in the design of this Project. The major
risk is that of severe adverse climatic conditions, which occur about one in
every five years. In the farm budget and economic analyses this is accounted
for by assuming that poor climatic conditions reduce incremental Project pro-
duction to zero in one of every five years beginning in Project year three
(1981). Despite this assumption, the expected rate of economic return to the
country (21 percent), and financial rates of return to farmers (above 50 per-
cent), are high and therefore the risk is acceptable from this perspective.
In addition, however, poor climatic conditions, especially in the early years
of the Project, would hurt small farmers' ability to repay short-term credit.
Defaults would weaken the credit institution (CNCA). This risk is minimized
by CNCA's willingness to reschedule loan repayments if calamity prevents
repayment, coupled with the Government's policy of covering the credit insti-
tution's losses. Losses, and hence Government outlays to CNCA, would increase
slightly in drought years and decline in good years. A second risk results
from the increasing tightness of Morocco's public finance situation which may
reduce the availability of local funds. This risk may be considered small in
view of the high priority attached by the Government to the project. Thirdly,
although the Project was designed to increase the access of small farmers to
Government services,, farmers' aversion to risk may inhibit acceptance of the
Project's input packages, hence reducing benefits. This was accounted for in
the Project analysis by assuming that about 7,550 small farmers (20 percent of
farm population) would not accept the improved farm inputs and practices. If
50 percent of Project area farmers refused to implement the Project's techni-
cal packages, the rate of return would fall to 6 percent. A fourth Project
risk which is suggested by experience with previous agricultural Projects in
Morocco is that of delay in Project implementation due to administrative pro-
cedures and difficulties in coordinating the different Ministries involved.
A one-year delay in the flow of Project benefits would reduce the rate of
return to 14 percent. To minimize this risk, the mechanism for Project man-
agement and coordination was carefully established during the preparation of
the Project (para. 45). A quantitative risk analysis was undertaken for this
Project in which subjective probabilities based on engineering, agronomic,
and economic judgments were attached to the range of possible Project costs,
yields, crop and input prices, speed of development, start-up delays, etc.,
but assuming that Project components are eventually undertaken as specified in
this Project. The result indicates a 90 percent probability that the rate of
return would fall between 10 and 30 percent.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft-Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and CNCA and the Report
of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 14, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
WOROCCO             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                       -
---------------                        MOROCCO                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     659.9*                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    157.8                        1910      1970   ESTIMATE**        PHILIPPINES   TURKgY             ECE***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    190.0     300.0     540.0               230.0       000.0     1360.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           11.6      14.8      17.2                36.9       35.6         8.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      26.0       33.0      39.0               123.0       46.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       61.0       74.0     1LU.U               375.0       65.0        96.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE 8IRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        50.4       49.2       46.2               44.2       40.6        16.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         24.2       18.5       15.7               13.2       14.4         8.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      149.0/a       ,.    130.0                81.0       153:0/a      29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 8IRTH (YRS)      45.4       50.4      53.0                55.6       54.4        70.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4/a     3.4        3.3                3.3        2.6/ M      1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X
TOTAL                                2.6        2.4/a     2.4/8               3.0        2.5         0.5
URBAN                                6.4        4.0        5.6                4.0        4.9/d       1.e
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         29.3       32,2      40.1                27.6       36.7        62.6
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      44.3       46.4      45.8                45.6       41.7        24.9
i5 TO 64 YEARS                      51.7       51.1      51.6               51.6        54.0        54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                    4.0        2.5        2.6                2.8        4.3        11,1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9       1.0        0.9                0.9        0.9         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.0       1.9/b      1.8                1.5         1-1/e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ,.       aS.1     352.3              320.0          ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..       3.0        5.4                2.0        8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAB6R FORCE (THOUSAND)        3300.0/b 4000.0/b4900.0Jb               12400.0     14000.0/f       ,,
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        56s0/      50-.Ob.  424?                 55.0/a     63.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           9.0/.    9.0/3   13 2/3                 7.6 -     l1.9/j        *-
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           18.0 /C   20.0 /C        .                 ..       32.6/h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           43.0/E   49.0           . *.                        eo.e/W ,0,
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            7.0/E    4.0/E        ..                 ..         u.oW         ,,
LOWEST  401 OF HOUSEHOLDS          1l.0 '    12.0 /C           *-              *         9s.4 
nt6tTIIUTIDN OF LAND OWNERSHIP
__________________-__________-
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..      51.0/c                ..       39.0 /i
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..                  1.0/- C                       0.7
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            9700.0 /a 12650.0  L2400.0                   ..     2250.0       620.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ,          ,   1500.0                   ..     1770.0/   1140 0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          620.O/ajd660 0/d  780.0/d                850.0      500.0       160.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIEj (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        70.0      102.0     1.Q/e                86.0      112.0       116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             43.0       64.0       U./-e             45.0        78.0        99D0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..       14.0/e   13.2 /'             22.0        22.0/k      52.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..        ..         ..                6.6        14.7/1
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      47.0       52.0      64.9               113.0      109.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     5.0       13.0      17.2                49.0       28.0        70,0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0       12.0               10.0       11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                                2.0       3.0                6.0/b      14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                17.0/e    21.0      28.0                  ..        55.0/m     02.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.1       2.1         ..                  ,.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                35.0/f                        76.0       66.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                            3
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                76.0      82.0/f                         23.0       40.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                  31.0         .                            7.0       18.0
CONSUMIPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POPI)        46.0      60.0       77.0               72.0        89.0      111.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          t1.0      15.0       19.5                8.0         4.0       26.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           87.0     128.0     173.0               235.0      247.0      1072.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2       0.2        0.3                2.0         0.7        1.6
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNX I
Page 2 of 5 
NOTES
U'nles therwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betweeni 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 end 1971, and far Most Recent gtlieate, between
1973 sd 1976.
Inclu.ding Moroccan provinces In Western Sahara.
c~EnoludasMoroccan provinces in Western Sahara.
an* Although Greece's OMP per capita is much higher than that nf Morocco, Greece has been selected as en objective Country Vince both eosestrieg Ara
on the Mediterraneani, their economiest rely on the eerkst-machanim. sand they are similar in productive activity, especially In agriculture.
MORIOCCO         1960    i   1962/1   /b  Includes unreported feasta helpere in agriculture;    Ic  Consumption expenditure of howesholds;
/4  Gnvernamet hospital eeahaliaomemts only;    /a  Parsons aver five yerar  of age who can reed ead writs.
1970    I   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower thac rate of natural increasa;    /b  Exclude unreportad female helpers
in agriculture;    Ic  Consuaption enpenditure of householdsr    Id  Goveroneont hospiTtal mstebliehenta only;
/e  1964-66;    /f  Urban househotlds only.
MOST RECEINT ESTIKATE:    I.  Duo to emigration population groth rate is lower than rate of natural in,cr.ses;    /k  1977 eastimte;
/0  Excludes collective and 'gulch' loand;    Id  Governmenot hospital establiehmenta only;    /a  1971-77
PRILIPPIMES    1970    /   As percentage of employmeht;    /b  Public education only.
TURKEY           1970    I   1967;    lb  Excludes 17 eastern provinces;            /c  1965-67;      /d  1965-70;    Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sad
over to labor force 15 years sand over;    If  Civilian labor forc~e;    Ij[ Including pealssao  agricultural uneWaplymeni;
lb1 Dliepsable incone;    It  Agricultural lanod, ignoring landless households;    Ijt  Including assistant nurses and mid-
wives;    lk  196i-66;       /1  1967-68;    /m  Personae sin years and over who tell ths cenaus cabana that they can road aNd
write.           -
GREECi           1970   /a   lue to ecigraiton population growth rate in lower than rate of natural increase;    1b  1967.
114, Key 1. 1979
DPfINdIORESi OP SOCIAL IDiICATORS
Land Area (thou osjcr                                                                           Population per sureina parsn-  Pustio  divided by somber of prActislng
Totl1 -r.oco  surface ursa cnprining land srea sand inland watera.-. muead famalm, graduate  uss   rsa                                            or 'certified" nurses, end
Agric. -Mont ro-rnotecinato of ogriucta  arms used tamp-rurly or Porno-                           soniliary parso-ni with trainig or experience.
nearly for  -rpa, pontures, narkt 6h kitchen gardens or to lie fsltou.                        Pop.lation. per hospical bad - Population, divided by number of bonpital beds
availahla En public sand private general and speciaiixed hospital end
GNP ncr canito  (US$) - GNP per capita outisutes at current market prices,                         rehabilitation  centers; eacludee mureig heme  sod establishoen.t, for
culculatod by non  covrso     tbod as World Each Atl.e (1974-76 bneis);                         c-tadia1 sand preven.tive oare.
1960; 1970 sand 1916 data.                                                                    Per capita  uPpoly of caoresi  of reasironental - Ccmputed from energy
equivalsot of anat fend supplies avaiable in co*astry per capita per dsy;
Populatio  sand vital statistics                                                                  sosilabla supplies caspries domestic prod-ction , imports less exports, and
Proolotion (oid-yeac nillion) - A. of July first:  if not available, average                      chenges in stock; net suppliese exclude animal feed, seed., quantities used
of two ond-yrar ontfa,at-a; 1960, 1970 and i976 data,                                           in foed pr--sing and bases. in distribution; requirerceta wer  aetimared
by FAO based on physilnlgical needs far norma activity and health ronsid-
P'opoatmon d-nity- per nuare ha. - Mid-year population per square kilonmater                      acing envirousnonte1 tasperstare, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 hecterso) of total ares.                                                                   population, sand allowing lOt for waste at household 1lavl.
Pop.l.tion d-nity -per square ha of nori, loand - Computed as above for                         Per capita supply of prtoten fgrams Per day) - Protein content of per capita
aiioluallrd only,                                                                        mat supply of fond per day; net supply of fond is dafined as above; require-
meets for, all cootrias established by bSDA Economic Nmesereh Services
Vital e.taincico                                                                                  prowid  for a sininma allowance of 60 grass of cotal pretais per day, and
Crode bitrth rtat  Per thvuuuod, aver.go - Annual live birth. Per thouand af                       20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
nid-yesr populotion; ton-yea  artithoetic averages ending in 1960 end 1970,                     protein; those etendrds are lower than thoan  of 71 gramss of total protein
end fivo-y-a  -ocroso ending in 1975 for soot rece.nt estimate.                                 sod 23 gram   of asima1 protein as an  -vrage for the world, propseed bly FAQ
Crode death rats Per thonand. avoruce - Annual dearho Per thousand of aid-year                    in tho Third Wnrtd Pond Sarvy.
p.pol.tfoc; ten-year arithoetic averages ending is 1960 sand 1970 sand five-                  Per canita procein somply from animal and poles - Protein supply of fond
yer-rage ending in 1975 for  -ot recest etme.derived from animals end pulses in gram   Per day.
mmimotlty rate (Ithoul - Annu..l deaths of infante under one year of age                 Oeath rate  Utchol aceso 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1.4
Per  bho-and 11cc births.                                                                       years, to children in this ege groop; snggested aso an indicator of
Life epectancy or birth (yre) - Averge nomb.r of yearn of life remauining at                      malnutrition.
birth; o-ualy five-year ovo-g-o coding in 1960, 1970 sand 1975 for develop-
i.g co...tric..                                                                               Education
cross reprod-ctiun rotc - Averoec nonber of liv  daughters. a nones will bear                   Adjusted enraient ra.th.io -primer  _choul - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in ber norcal reproductive period if abe experiences preaen.c age-specific                      centage ofpiar   coo-g  popultio; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility ratee; usually five-year averegus ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971                       but adjusted for different lengtha of primsry education; for countries with
for devoluping coutrien.                                                                        universal educative, enrol1eant may sense d 100% since mas  pupils are below
Poenlacton xrujth rate (%) - total - Conpoond a-ua  growth ratea of mid-year                      or abov  the nfficia1 school se.
popotaci.n for 1950-60, 1960-70 sand 1970-71.                                                 Adjusted enroll1ment retio - aerondary schonl - Computed as above ; eacondary
Popnlation icowth rate (2) - urbon - Co.puted like growth rate of total                           education reqirm  at I.eset four years of approved prinery imetructiem;
populatoun; diffn-e- dnfioitions of orba  00000 oy affect cosap-cbility of                      provides general, vecatiosal or, teacher, training instructions for pupils
data anono coun.tries.                                                                          of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence  noursus are gesarally emeluded.
Schben population (% of total) - Ratio of orben to total Population; different                  Years of schulina eroided (first end second levels; - Total year  of
dofisitic   of urban areas may sffct roar-bility of data a-ong coutries.                        achneling; at secondary level, vocational inatc,tin may be partielly or
Comletaly mInldeod.
As, at-nturn  prat.            Children (0-14 yearst), working-age (11-66 years),                aaia   enrollment (1 at esconderyl - Voastional inatitetiams include
an:d,re.tOred (65 yara sand aver) se porceotages of aid-year populetlee.                         tehia,industrial or other program   which nperats indepsdently or a 
d00  dro.icyc ratio - Ratin of population, under 15 sand 65 end avr ta chose                    dsportmsstI of secondary fo-titctoin,s.
cf afon 11 tbr-gh 64.                                                                         Adult literacy rate  M) - Lit-rte sdnlts (able ta read sand write) as per-
icconnIc doco-do..cy ratio  - fatio of population under SI and 65 sand owr to                     -etage of total adult ppulatton aged 15 years and over.
tho labor force in agc group of 15-64 ycsra.
yeo:iy clnclo-acc rca    ic_culaios  thou) - innloiv  con -bar of a;ccpor               sHnsin
of brbcnrldevices  nodar a.sPices of national fni ly pl anning Prngr-Persons pat room (urban) - Ayrstge nomber of Persona per roo  in occupied
sinon Icoeption.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~convenrinmal dwellings is urbas areas; dwalllnge  xolode msn-p.eummant
Ifonly plo-oio-oaer   ft nimrrId  oofl-Peonue    nimrried wonso of                                etu   .ursad onucrupied Parts.
child-bearing oge (15-44 years) who use birth-control devi..cs to al married                  Occupied dumlligs without piped weter It) - Oc..apied conventianal dwellings
-aern, in s..te age granp.                                                                      in urhsnsand rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as .perc..stage of all onrnpied dwellings.
t                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acces  to  1eletricity ft of all dwellings) - Convetional  dwellings with
Total labor force (th-cund) - icounically active persona, including  rgmad                        electricity in living quarters as percent of total duallinga in urbao entd
fnrco sand unsployed hut exclnding housoivee, atodents, etc.; definitions                       -ur1 areas.,
In vari-ou  cootrlooaresnot cnparahls.                                                       Rural dwellngs connected to e1ectrixity It) - Computed as  babov  for rural
bahn  forc  in  gari-otr. i)-Agri-1lrnr1 labor farce  (in faring, forastry,                      d-elinga only.
buntingdad fihing) as percentage af total lebor force.
Sn-Ploye  (2 of labor force)   U- oPInysd are usualy dafinad as persons, who                    Consumpction
are abo and willig to tah a, jab, Oc fajb an   gives day, r-ained our                         Rdia rece.ivers (per thon pool - All types ofreivs for radio breadeamsr
a1  ob, and n-oig work fraopified fel u  period not onceedeng o..                             to ecaera1 public per thouansd of population ; enludes onlicensed recesioese
wea k; nay co  ho conp-ral  bt_oe  coon tries doe to diff-ront definitiona                      in counrise and in years when registration. of radia sets w.as in effect;
of un-ployod ocd source nf data, e.g., asplaymnt office sttstc, -ePI.                           data far rs....t years   _ macnt beecompartable since most cnwerrise sboliehed
auvya, conpulsory  -nploy-oc  insoranos.                                                     licsaIng.
Peseeseer cars (cpr tbau pop) - Pa.ssegr cars cmprise motor cars seating
booe dfl,1bihtlno  - Percentage of privatn income (both io ras h and hind)                        eee tha  aiiht persona; e..udas  mbulance, hearses and military
roccicod hy rich-oc 51, rcet20%, Poorsr 20%. sad pooreat 4019  af hos-                          neiosa
,olda.                                                                                       Slectrkitiy (kho//yr per cap) - dnnual consumption, nf industrial,          ari,
pablic sand privata aleotricity in kilowat boors par capita, generally
rltrtib-t,- of land owerohlp - ferc-otge, of land cund by w..sIthisat 102                         base.d an producrios data, wlthant allowns-  for lonsee in grids but elbow-
and poc-t I. of land cicr.lg far imports and exports of electricity.
Rawepriot (ha/yr ear can) - Per capIta. .n.o..  casnumption in kilograms
fleu;to,c -d   trftioc                                                                            estimated from domestic production plua sat Smpcrta of gaweprint.
Popul.tatIo  car  bvicIunm  - Popolantlc divided by n,sbhs  of praticing
phynticioc   qcaIfficd iron a nedica  shol  at -niverIty level.



page 3 of 5
MOROCCO:  ECON0NlC DEVMLOINEIW DATA SHET
ACtu.lS                                        Pro.eCti.a                        An-Il Growth Rot.               F-re-c of CDP
1967       1972       1976       1977       1978        1932       1937       1967-72   1972-77    1977-82   1932-87            1977
A.  NATIONA1  ACCOITTS
(DI milLion. 1969 prices)
1.   Gros     - D      -w-stir Prodoot                     15,573    20,661    27,307    29,446          30,510    36,839    54,843             5.8        7.3         4.6        8.3        100.0
2.    soon of tr-d,  djontsowt                                -300         -3        151         107        152        S02      1,104            -           -          -          -            0.4
3.  G000- D-0000lc Ioco.-                                   15,273    20.658    27.458    29.553    30.662    37.641    55.947                  6.2        7.4         5.0        8.3        39f0.4
4.  1,parts                                                  3,000      3,994      6,760       8,169      7,170      8,274    13,932            5.9        15.4        0.3       10.9          27.7
S.  Eparts                                                  -2,976    -3,861    -3,811    -4.227    -4,639    -6,639   -10,265                  5.3         1.8        9.5        9.1          1-.4
6.  top,rto.  TT odj.stn-nt                                 -2,676    -:3,858    -3,962    -4,334    -4,791    -7,441   -11,369                 7.6         2.4       12.3        8.8          11.7
7.  R-.soure 9P0. IT odjoemo-t                                 324        136      2,798       3,835      2,379        033      2,563            -           -          -          -           13.0
S.  T-srl ..o.snptLo-                                       14,163     113,220    23.613    24,553       25,841    31,519    42,357             5.2         6.1        5.2        6.0          63.4
9.  Prlvoto  ooloooopolow                                   12,239    1;,610    19,428    190849    20,901    25,103    32.275                  5.0        4.9         4.8        5.8          67.4
10.  Govo-r-.oot cooowoptio                                   1,924      :2,610     4,185       4,7C4      4,940      6,476      9,082           6.3       12.5         6.6        7.0          16.0
11,  Gr-s, fixrd L--..Looot                                   1,986      2,601      6,819       8,458      6,600      6,400    15,500            5.5       26.6        -5.8       19.4         so.7
12.  Ci,ngo ic nstok.                                           G82        345       -176         377        600        495         653           -           -          -          -            1.2
13.  D-ostlo oavS                                             1.110      2.438      3,845       5,000      4,821      6,062    13,590           17.0       15.5         4.0       17.5          16.6
14.  loo-on-l  -cIins                                           980      2,764      5,031       6,069      5,849      6,977    14,698           23.1       17.1         2.8       16.1          20.3
15.  Gr --  D-orstic Product                                  3,083      5,052      9,916    11,224    12,302    18,407    34,931               10.4       14.5        10.4       13.7
(S Milli.on 0urr0t pric.s)
16   Cr-on N oti-ol Product                                   3.046      5,090    10,316       11,654    12,680    18,825       35,608          10.9        15.1       10.0       13.6
(S 1I1lwiow cu-00-t pri..s)
B.  SFCTOR OETP1UT                                 (Sh.r-. of GnP *t curre    pricr-)
1.  A.rL-ultu-e                                               21.5       20.5        19 1       15.7       18.3       17.8        16.6
2.  Mining                                                     4.1        3.3        4.8         5.0        5.4        6.1         6.7
3.  Ercrgy, M-onf._ Co-wtenwtion                              25.0       24.8        26,0       27.0       28.3       29.9        35.1
4.  OLh-r oorolowo                                            49.4       51.4        50.1       52.3       48.0       46.2        41.6
C.  PRICE5
1.  Expo-t price indet                                         0.941      1.123      1.991       1.994      2.218      3.14.       4.082
2.  1o700rt pr10  index                                        1.046      1.124       1.915      1.945      2.148      2.778       3.685
3.  Too-ow of bode iwdoc                                       0.899      0.999       1.041      1.025      1.033      1.121       1.108
4.  Groow Dro 0tic P,od-ot d.fl.tor                            0.998      1.122       1.605      1.715      1.816      2.250       2.868
5.  E_clag  0r00e (PB p00 d0$)                                 0.198      0.218       0.226      0,222      0.222      0.222       0.222
D,  S0I.ECTFD lIDC,rOM RS                          1967-72   1972-77   1977-82   1982-87
1.  ItfR                                             2.17       2.83         3.70      2.75
2.  0-port o1-otlity/GDP                             1.0        2.1          0.1       1.3                                                   E.  LABOR FORCE (Th-osnod)    1971 3/   1977 3/   4r-,0  00- 
3.  A--gce  -al iao rl 00 t100 0000                  8.2       17.0         19.0      22,4                                                                                          _                     p. 0.5
4.             -tri..l n.tion0 I0-i00  r.te         33.2       37:4         11.0      42.2
S.  I-po-tl/GDP                                     19.3       23.5        25.1       24.0                                                   1.  ASri..lt-re                  1,980      2,100           1.0
6.  l-sn -Ooolt/GDP                                 12.6       20.6         17.0      22.8                                                   2.  I.d.-Ury                       600        900           7.C
7.  R6 so0 c g.p/GDP                                 1.3        6.8          7.2       2.9-                                                  3.  Sorviow,                       780        810           0.6
4.  Co -rno-t:                    270         360          5.0
F.  Ct'70! GOVER01'T\r FINANCES                                                            Frojowolow                                        5.  Tot0l enploy..wt             3,630      4,170           2.3
(P-0c-00  of 0DP  t 0urr00  prio..)         1967       1972       1976        1977       1978                                         6.  T 1tal lo.b- forc.           3.980      4,940           3.7
1.  C,rurct  -00r0-0                               14.7       15.5       19.8        23.0       24.7                                         7.  Do1igotwd,unop10y0d 4/    330             773          :4.0
(Pc,P prof,t tr-fn.rso)                     (1.0)        -        (1.7)       (0.9)      (1.0)
2.  CN-r-eo   rI/pend1turco  11                    13.5       14.4       18.2        18.5       19.1
3.  C-r-eot ..rpl..                                 1.2        1.1        1.6        4.5         5.6
4.  ID vesteo-t 2/                                  6.9        5.1       18.5        19.8       14.5
5.   lo-d lnv-stnm-t                                6.8        4.5        9.6       10.2         7.6
1/ Includin- dobt servic. -od ..bsidies; 2/ lncluding Dcf-E nod c pital                          3,11971 wonoow cod dt. provided by PI n...g Servic..  for 1977;
4/ Tor-1  ,oir-td w-rk            -wOoinated betwoso 250,010 wnd 300.003.
M.y 12, 1978
E924NA CP 1lc



ANNEX I
MOROCCO:  BALANCE OF PA0XF.N01S ASS EXTRFNAL ASSISTANCE                                                   page  4  of  5
(SlIlIionrr  of US dollars  rurror pirco.)
1967       1,92       1976        1977                  1978        19.0       1962        103        197        1992
A.  S7.5.0WRY F0 BALA':CF OF PAY.X\STS
1.  Exports, incl. hFS                         555         945      1,718      1,373                  2,285      3,316       4,592      3,337      9,306    18,059
2.  :porro, cool. :.FS                         623         978      2,929 1/  3,070 1/                3,423      4,045       5,105      5,883     11,403      18,642
3.  Resource bal-oc-                           -6S         -33    -1,211      -1,656                 -1,135       -729        -513       -546     -2,097        -583
4.  Ne-  footer servIce                        -37          38        400        429                    378         355        414        457         666        931
Net irterest p001100Cc                     -17        -34         -48       -118                   -185       -290       -325        -324       -447       -722
Nct 1te.eot toco                           -19        -28         -51        -70                    -69       -109       -132        -154       -15-        -15-
LioCkers' rciotn.oo                         41         139   *   547         600                    702        804         921        985      1,313       1,853
Other (net)                                -52        -39         -48         17                    -50        -50
5.  Correrc tr-onfe-s  (net)                     13         42         47          42                    45          52         58          63         83        116
6.  C-Cr-t arcont balance                       -92         47       -764    -1,185                     712        -322         41          26     1,348         464
7.  Pri-vte dir-t i-o n osect (net)               9         14         38          58                    64          77         93        102         150        241
0.  Public ! + LT bon-
Dltoborsov.ooco                           88        123        608       1,717 3/                 883        966.       .92      1,089       2,411      1,569
Ro-payrcnoo                              -29        -67        -90        -131                   -254       -652       -893        -856       -945    -1,954
501 dlrburso,.ots                         59         56        518       1,576                    629        314         49         233      1,466       -385
9.  Short-tree. capitol (rot)                  -18         -32         29          58                   -           -          -          -           -          -
10.  Not rse of 0   reso..ces                    -           13        -           -
11.  CopIer  c.e.i. 2   /                         23        -23        163        -503 3/
12.. Choage In roserono                          -19        -75          16         -4                     19        -69       -101       -309        -268       -320
13. Level of rereroos
-   -r t                                  21        286        491         423                   404         466        642        952       1,876      3,083
= ro:-ih 5 iopeorre                   .04          3.5        2.0         1.2                   1.4         1.4        1.5        1.6         1.9        2.0
b.  r.:-o. A'-      :        s.rAN C O!?'=XE7S
1.  C[icioo        tS                            25         17         15          10
2.  T.0...  pul hIo   + LT loans                 88        179        670       1,697
I t. ''hA                                  - 8         97         153        166
ir-titotion                              -            4          10
o8         63        140         458
-o'?llcosp  credits                        _            16         33        235
co '.cicl books C                          _             3        551        808
C. 'o-. . 5
1.  0-        .1c -cnil (7.)                 0..            33.6       13.9        11.2
2.    r      lVe:ueton.erc- t (7.)           r.o.            5.3        7.2         7.5
3.  Average  a- rity (yeae-)                 n.a.           22.3       11.7        10.1
1/ t::oolo4ol sperol rmilltary import payments whIch  reo t-ntioovely es.tioaed by the minolin at $590 nilli.n in 1976 and 9530 million in 1977
2/ Oral odong rooto                                                                                                                                         HMy 12, 1978
3/ Preol sional flgrore                                                                                                                                      EMO  12, CP19



ANNEX I
page 5 of 5
MOROCCO:  EXTERNAL DEBT CREDITTW0ITHINESS
Actuals
937       1972       1976       1977
A.  AE)M AND I.O  Ti-:oY DZBT'
(.illiors of US dollars)
1.  Total DOD at year's end                 n.a.         919      2,257      3,831
2.  Including undisburse<l                  n.a.       1,187      3,155      4,708
3.  Debt service                               46        101         138        249
of which interest                        17         34         48        118
B.  DEBT r-=DEN (%)
I1.  Debt service/exports of G&NFS              8.3       10.7         8.0       13.3
2.  Debt service/exports & w'orkers rem.        7.7        9.3         6.1       10.1
3.  Debt service/GD?                            1.5         2.0        1.4        2.2
C.  T=!:S
1.  Interest/prior year DOD                 n.a.            3.9        2.8        5.2
2.  Debt service/prior year DOD             n.a.          11.6         8.1       11.0
D.  RE?.. -      -.IOS
1.  Gross disbursenents/imports                14.1       12.6       20.8       48.7 1/
2.  Net/disburse,ents/icmports (incl.NFS)    6.7           2.2       16.0       32.5 It
3.  t;et disbursenents/gross disbursements  47.7          17.9       77.3       66.8 1/
E.  EXPOS..E RATIOS
1.  3anXi Group disb.Itotal disb.           n.a.          21.0       10.5         3.8
2.  Bank Group DCD/total DOD                n.a.          10.9       14.4         9.8
3.  Bank Group debt service/total           n.a.          10.5       25.2       14.1
debt service
P.  E -:A.L DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                  Outstandine December 31, 1977
(Millions of US dollars)                                          Amoutit           Percent
1.  IBRD                                                            339               8.8
2.  IDA                                                              37               1.0
3.  Other international organizations                                18               0.5
4.  GovernA.ents                                                  1,320              31.5
5.  Suppliers credits                                               492              12.8
6.  Financial institutions                                        1,568              40.9
7.  Others                                                           57               1.5
8.  Total outstanding aond disbursed                              3,831             100.0
9.  Total outstanding :Lncluding undisbursed                      4,708             122.9
G. nEBT P>RmFIS
1.  Total debt service 1978/82/Total DOD end 1977 - 1.14
1/ Provisional percentage
May 12, 1978
EMENA CPIIc



ANNEX II
P8eg 1 Of 6
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1978)
Loan of                                                             US$ Million
Credit                                                        Amount (lessloancellations)
Number   Year        Borrower               Purpose           Bank      IDA-      Undisbursed
Eleven   Loans      Fully disbursed                           174.9
Four      Credits   Fully disbursed                                      36.0
643      1969       Kingdom of Morocco   Irrigation            46.0                 4.1
848      1972       CIH                    DFC (Tourism)        15.0                1.7
850      1972       ONEP                   Water Supply        48.0                 5.4
936      1973       ONE                    Power               25.0                 4.4
955      1974       Kingdom of Morocco   Highway               29.0                 9.8
1017       1974      Maroc-Phosphore         Industry            50.0                4.4
1018       1974       Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture           32.0               13.9
1061       1974       BNDE                  DFC                  30.0                5.3
555      1975       Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture                    14.0       13.9
1123       1975       Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture          18.5                12.0
1201       1976      Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture            30.0               23.2
1202       1976      Kingdom of Morocco   Tourism               21.0                20.0
1220-T    1976       Kingdom of Morocco   Education             25.0                25.0
1279       1976       CIH                    DFC (Tourism)      25.0                17.6
1299       1976      Kingdom of Morocco   Power                 49.0                42.7
1361      1977       Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture           35.0                30.2
1383       1977      CIOR                    Industry           45.0                18.8
1416       1977      Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture           41.0                41.0
1428       1977       BNDE                  DFC                 45.0                45.0
S-72/     1977       Kingdom of Morocco   Engineering            1.5                 1.5
1528Z/    1978       Kingdom of Morocco   Urban Development 18.0                    18.0
Total                                                      803.9    50.0      357.9
of which has been repaid                                106.2       0.3
Total now outstanding                                      697.7    49.7
Amount sold                             17.7                           -
of which has been repaid               1.3                16.4       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             681.3    49.7
Total undisbursed                                         344.0    13.9       357.9
NOTES
I' Prior to exchange adjustment
2/ Signed but not yet effective
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1978)
1962      BNDE *                Development Bank        --        2.7        2.7
1966      CIL                   Canning Factory         0.9       0.5        1.4
1976      Marrakech Cement    Cement Factory            --        1.3        1.3
1977      Temara Cement         Cement Factory          4.8       2.4        7.2
Total gross commitments                           5.7       6.9      12.6
less cancellations, terminations
repyaments and sales                              1.3       0.8       2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                 474       6.1      1T.T
Total undisbursed                                 1.8      1.9



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
November 30, 1978.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss Ier Dam, is completed and 29,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Project completion is now
scheduled for the end of 1978 which would require a postponement of the
closing date by six months. Additional infrastructure for the project area,
including a sugar cane processing factory and flood protection works, are
being provided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness:  November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973, but the loan is now fully com-
mitted. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before end June 1978.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed by Fall 1978.
The financial position of the Borrower, Office National de l'Eau Potable
(ONEP), is improving following implementation of tariff increases in October
1977 and other measures the Government has under consideration.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Physical implementation of the project is complete. Savings amount-
ing to about US$3.5 million are being applied to consultant services for feas-
ibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid documents for 5
hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on imported oil.
A one year postponement of the Closing Date was granted to allow payments
under these contracts. Electricity rates were increased on average by 14%
on February 1, 1978, but further action is required to meet the 1978 cash
contribution covenant.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - is now almost complete and the mainte-
nance equipment and highway improvement programs are complete. Work on the
contract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Transport Plan-
ning Office in the Ministry of Public Works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1017 Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The project was mechanically completed in October 1976 and the plant
is now in commercial operation. Test runs have been successfully carried
out for all units, except the MAP fertilizer Unit where some minor technical
problems are being corrected. Production of phosphoric is proceeding satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on
schedule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule
but work on the flood protection dykes is about 29 months behind schedule,
mainly on account of uncertainties regarding the next Five-Year (1978-1982)
Plan contents, and particularly the M'Jara Dam which would make questionable
the construction of the dykes.  Decision from Government in this respect is
expected by July 1978. The study on pollution control now proceeding satis-
factorily; however the study on the incidence of bilharzia on the Rharb plain
has yet to be started.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BND]E Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness:  January 15, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1978.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in line
with appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1123  Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 59 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing has
been completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed in about 50 percent of the project area. Works related to the
social components of the project are suffering a substantial delay. A recent
issue derives from the budgetary constraints facing Morocco which have
resulted in cutbacks in the operating budget and assignment of additional
personnel. The impact of these changes in the Project and the determination
of appropriate measures would be studied by the next inspection missions.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of-Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project in:itially faced substantial delays in project imple-
mentation. The studies are now underway, and commitments of funds under the
project have been initiated. However project management and the coordination
of project activities belween the project authority and the central offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture continue to require close monitoring. A revised
land reform and redistribution program which meets the project's objectives is
currently under discussion.
Ln. No. 1201  Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,500 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors are underway and expected to be on
schedule.
Ln. No. 1202  Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development of



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 housing
units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Forestry land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by the end of 1979. The
implementation of other components experienced some delay but could still be
completed on schedule.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is progressing satisfactorily with the exception of the
health staff training centres which are behind schedule. All sites have been
selected and design development is at an advanced stage. Recruitment of
experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. Commitments as of March 14,
1978 amounted to $13.5 million. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign
exchange resources other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears
in accordance with understandings reached during negotiations.
Ln. No. 1299  Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 Kv transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1361  Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term
lending through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small
farmers, cooperatives and farmers' association. Disbursements are proceeding
on schedule.
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory. Con-
struction of the plant is progressing on schedule, training of key personnel
is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of: Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure.
Progress in implementation is generally satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. The loan became effective on December 21, 1977 and
commitments as of April 1, 1978 amounted to US$3.3 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30,
1977; Limit Date for Effectiveness: April 30, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
The project incLudes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and a priority first stage project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Limit Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an
experimental Sites and Services Housing Schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies.



ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) An FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission identified the Project in
May 1976 and reported to the Bank.
(b)  The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform prepared the Project
and was assisted by several CP missions.
(c) The Bank received the draft preparation report in June 1977.
(d) The Bank sent:
(i) preparation missions in March and July 1977;
(ii)  appraisal missions in September/October 1977 and February 1978.
(e) Negotiations would be completed on May 12, 1978.
(f) Effectiveness planned for October 1978.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Bank would provide retroactive financing up to US$50,000 for the
preparation of the feasibility study for the roads component.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Agricultural Administration Officers to be appointed (para. 39).
(b) Leases for supply of farm inputs to be satisfactory (para. 41).
(c) Economic justification for dirt tracks to be upgraded into roads
would be attached to detailed engineering (para. 43).
(d) Water tariffs recovering 100 percent of O&M costs would be applied
and a study of beneficiaries' ability to contribute to investment costs
undertaken (para. 44).
(e) Appointment of Project Manager (para. 45).
(f) Monitoring and evaluation unit to prepare a Project Completion Report
(para. 45).
(g) Appointment of architects/engineers (para. 46).
(h) Government to onlend $12.7 million to CNCA (para. 48).



IBRDI3377R
0020                                       <>' ;,2 g                   5000'                               0054047   *(                        404T                 )              4D'                                                                           MAY 1970
'4  PROPOSED                                                                                                                                             KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
/< ~~~                     SOJUWRA DAM                                              o:                                                                 E-AI-IS                                                                 RJC
X \'/                                                                                                                  F- '              IA  SS  AGRICULTURE PROJECT
~~~~~~P                                                                lW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RJZ.T ROAS.U MO.- ODUD00BLI 0
MACCA                       OEC0,0 DES                                                                                                                        CT ,101    > .7- ROADS, FORMERLY POROI 9- TOR.    00  08-00
SOACOR  SLUS                      BUAVAHAB         I                                                                           O~~~~~~'   I~RUJOT ROAD.R,UENC   BrB CRI  -G-.
.0BUAOS2  R    I                                                                                         - .                                                      "|o,..,Ao2UUZ<.. -ASALtt                         - 28 U-DISOIS OAO N OT INCAf.D IN -TO   1PRET
L&.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  'IMR . W,  --.   
RASAC ouo          *   0   UO~ITRICT .-ARITAONORERO
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 41i                                                                                            .. ARU                                                                                           CO w  N
--u ...                                                                                                                         -R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    -  -00010BONAIER
/  (       I          ~              -I(01                                                      .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  ,                                                                                                                                    -     -  MROUAVNA  BUANDUf       VOI}DZ4550Z1 ESl Z
LL4102                                                                                                                                                     FLTU:~  -APr    - VOIR
00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~l    5 0
R;-- R- ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00000002,0,00  0  'I 00  10 00,DI 0 O
DRO00BDp O,0,R2 0,,fl, ,D,ODOD  00  A  ,,  ooo, 0,20
000400 0M,0 2,00004 ,(0,/00--T0000.0,/0RS    240
jO'                                                                                                           00000040. OOOIUSD~~~~~~~~~~~~~,d-1  f 00041-22U OOOO,0,y000D400002O



