Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2017-MOR
FILE CO?Y
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
June 12, 1978
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1 - DH 4.30
DH 1 = 0.2326
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                            - 0.039 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                                  - 39 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                             - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                               - 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square meter (m2)                          - 10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                           - 35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                                  - 0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 hectoliter (hl)                            - 26.4 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                              - 2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                         - 2,205.00 pounds (lb)
1 bar                                        - 14.666 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilometer per hour (km/h)                  - 0.6 mile per hour  (mph)
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CA        - Agricultural Extension and Input Supply Center
(Centre Agricole)
CLCA      - Local Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Locale de
Crédit Agricole)
CNCA      - National Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Nationale
de Crédit Agricole)
CP        - FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
CPC       - Central Project Committee
CRCA      - Regional Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Régionale
de Crédit Agricole)
CT        - Agricultural Work Centre (Centre de Travaux)
DEA       - National Agricultural Education Service
(Direction de l'Education Agricole)
DER       - Construetion Department of MARA (Direction de
l'Equipement Rural)
DMV       - Agricultural Development Department (Direction de
la Mise en Valeur)
DPA       - Provincial Agricultural Service (Direction Provinciale
de l'Agriculture)
DRA       - Department of Agricultural Research of MARA
(Direction de la Recherche Agronomique)
E & F     - MARA's Forestry Service (Service des Eaux et Forêts)
FERTIMA   - Government Fertilizer Company (Société Marocaine des
Fertilisants)
INRA      - National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique)
MARA      - Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministère de l'Agriculture et de la Réforme Agraire)
MENFC     - Ministry of Education (Ministère de l'Education et de la
Formation des Cadres)
MEPN      - Ministry of Public Works and Construction (Ministère de
l'Equipement et de la Promotion Nationale)
MS        - Health Ministry (Ministère de la Santé)
OCP       - Cherifien Phosphate Board (Office Chérifien des Phosphates)
ONEP      - National Office for Domestic Water Supply
(Office National pour l'Adduction d'Eau Potable)
ONICL     - Grain and Pulses Marketing Agency (Office National
Interprofessionel des Céréales et Légumineuses)
ONT       - National Transportation Office (Office National de
Transport)
SCAM      - Moroccan Agricultural Cooperative Society (Société de
Coopérative Agricole Marocaine)
SONACOS   - National Seeds Distribhution Company (Société Nationale de
Commercialisation des Semences)
TOR       - Terms of Reference
Cercle:          County
Commune Rurale: District
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR .................................         1
A.  Place of Agriculture in the Economy .1
B.  Land Use ........................................          1
C.  Government Objectives in Agriculture.                      1
D. Realization of Plans.                                       2
E.  Major Issues, Government Strategy and
the Bank's Role.                                        2
F.  Performance under Previous Projects.                       5
II. PROJECT AREA.                                                    6
A. Location.                                                   6
B.  Land Use, Land Tenure and Farm Size.                       7
C.  Agricultural Support Services.                             8
D.  Credit ......... ...............................           9
E.  Agricultural Production and Yields.                        9
F. Infrastructure .10
G. Conclusions .12
III. THE PROJECT .12
A. Origin and Objectives .12
B.  Description of the Project .13
C. Monitoring and Evaluation .20
D. Status of Engineering .21
E. Cost Estimates .21
F. Financing .23
G. Disbursements .23
H. Accounts and Audits .24
I. Environmental Impact .25
J. Procurement .25
This report is based on the Project preparation done by MARA's DMV with assis-
tance of the CP Rome and on the findings of Appraisal Missions in September/
October 1977 and in February 1978 both consisting of Messrs. D. von Samson,
K. Cleaver, H. Floyd, H. Laeyendecker (IBRD) and N. Imboden and J.P. Noel
(Consultants, who participated in the 1977 mission).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................      26
A.  Organization and Management .....    ................  26
B.  Agricultural Support Services and Training ......     28
C. Operation and Maintenance of the Roads and
Water Supply Components .......................     33
D.  Implementation Schedule .........................     35
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....    ..............  35
A.  Production ........                                   35
B. Markets, Marketing and Prices for Project
Output   ........................................   38
C.  Marketing and Prices for Agricultural Inputs  ....    41
D.  Economic Analysis and Project Risks ....  .........   42
E.    Beneficiaries   ...................................  45
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   ...........  47
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures.
2. Disbursement Schedule.
3. Road Design Standards and Details of Construction
4. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File.
FIGURES
Project Organization                         World Bank 18652
Implementation Schedule                      World Bank 18826
MAP
Project Area                                  IBRD 13377R



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
I. SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Morocco's population is estimated at 17.5 million (1977) of which
two-thirds live in rural areas. Population growth has equaled 2.9% p.a.;
5.2% p.a. in the urban sector, 1.6% p.a. in the rural sector, the difference
being due to rural-urban migration., Agriculture contributes about 25% of GDP;
about one-half of the labor force is employed in agriculture, and agricultural
exports account for 25% of total exports.
B. Land Use
1.02      Morocco has a total land area of 51 million ha of which 7.6 million
have soils and moisture suitable for cropping, and 11 million are in semi-arid
regions suitable only for grazing. Irrigation covered 876,000 ha in 1977, or
12% of agricultural land. Rainfed agriculture practiced on about 88% of agri-
cultural land supports an equal percentage of the farm population with 70% of
the value of agricultural output. About 5.8 million ha of the 7.6 million ha
of agricultural land are cultivated each year; the remainder is left fallow.
About 4.4 million ha are planted under cereals, 600,000 ha under pulses,
400,000 ha under fruit trees, 100,000 ha under vegetables, 60,000 ha under
sugar beet, and the remainder under oilseeds, cotton, sugar-cane and forage
crops. Most of Morocco's rainfed areas, including that of Fes, Karia and
Tissa are characterized by traditional agricultural practices, and limited use
of fertilizers, plant protection, certified seeds and farm machinery. As a
result, crop yields are generally low.
C. Government Objectives in Agriculture
1.03      Under Morocco's Third Five-Year Plan (1973-1977) agriculture received
high priority (45% of planned investment), with major objectives including (a)
improvement of the trade balance of agricultural products, (b) growth of real
output in the agricultural sector by 3.6% p.a., compared to overall GDP growth
of 7.5%, (c) increase in farm income, and (d) improvement of the distribution
of income between income groups and regions. The next plan is likely to incor-
porate similar objectives, but with increased emphasis on providing the nutri-
tional requirements of the population.



- 2 -
D. Realization of Plans
1.04      Agricultural output (in constant prices) fluctuates annually mainly
because of variations in climatic conditions (for example it increased by 30%
in 1968 and declined by 8% in 1969). During the 1968-1972 Second Plan period
the output of the agricultural sector increased rapidly, leveling off somewhat
in the last several years. Domestic agricultural production has not kept up
with the increased demand caused by urbanization and income and population
growth. The result has been a 35% p.a. average increase in food imports from
1970/72 to 1974/76 (in current prices), 15% p.a. in quantity terms. The
value of Moroccan agricultural exports expanded at 7% p.a. during the same
period, with the quantity of agricultural exports declining at 4.5% p.a. The
expansion of agricultural imports, along with some switching of exportables to
domestic consumption has permitted maintenance of an adequate food supply and
nutritional levels.
E. Major Issues, Government Strategy and the Bank's Role
1.05      Allocation of Public Resources.  The Moroccan Government has allo-
cated a large percentage of its investments to expensive infrastructure
projects (irrigation).and to civil works (buildings) and vehicles. A large
percentage of agriculture's operating budgets and the best agricultural staff
have been allocated to the irrigated areas. The subsidy implicit in irriga-
tion water charges, which partially cover operation and maintenance costs,
benefits irrigated farms. Most of the growth in the agricultural sector has
been in irrigated crops such as sugar beet, vegetables, cotton, high yielding
wheat, and forage. However, this development has benefitted only a small
percentage of the rural poor (about 12%), and small farmers in the rainfed
sector have been given little attention.  Despite a desire by the Government
to continue Bank involvement in large irrigation projects, the Bank is now
shifting its emphasis to obtain a balance between development of the rainfed
sector and irrigation. The Bank has also endeavored to convince Government
to reduce subsidies to the irrigation subsector by increasing recovery charges.
It appears that Government will allocate a somewhat greater proportion of
investments in agriculture to the rainfed sector during the next plan (1978-
1982), and that an upward revision in irrigation recovery charges will be
made. The Government is also likely to increase social infrastructure invest-
ments in rural areas. In the past, social infrastructure in rural areas
outside of the irrigated perimeters has received low priority. Much of this
infrastructure investment could usefully be made within integrated agricultural
development projects patterned after the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project, since such
projects provide a coordinated approach to area development. However, there
are organizational constraints to this integrated approach (para 1.07).
1.06      Problems with Agricultural Extension and Research.  Morocco's
research and extension programs have not greatly affected agriculture, particu-
larly in the rainfed sector. The problem is that research has been excessively
theoretical and not oriented toward increasing farmers' profits. Results are



seldom tested under farm conditions and are thus frequently irrelevant to
farmers. The extension service suffers from (a) the excessive amount of time
spent by agents on administrative and regulatory tasks compared to that spent
in providing technical assistance to farmers; (b) inadequate practical expe-
rience; and (c) a high attrition rate resulting from the higher salaries
available in the private sector. Technical assistance in the improvement of
research and extension activity would be useful in Morocco. The Bank has
stressed these issues in its sector work and in the preparation of the Meknes,
Doukkala II Irrigation and the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Projects (paras
1.11 and 3.03). Little progress has been made with respect to research while
considerable progress is being made with respect to extension as reflected in
the extension component of the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project.
1.07      Inadequate Project Preparation Capacity in Agriculture.  During the
last plan the amount of resources used for rainfed agricultural development
was less than 50% of the amount authorized. The problem, which requires
analysis, may have resulted from the lack of priority and hence lack of man-
power and financial resources devoted to preparing programs and projects in
the rainfed sector. The new Government emphasis on rainfed agriculture under
the 1978-1982 Plan should remedy this situation somewhat. The Bank is support-
ing this new emphasis by assisting in the preparation of the Fes-Karia-Tissa
Project and the Loukkos Rural Development Project. Assistance in preparation
of rainfed projects for possible Bank financing will continue to be given. An
additional absorptive capacity problem relates to preparation of integrated
rural development schemes which require coordination between the Ministries
responsible for the various components.
1.08      Land Tenure.  Distribution of private land in Morocco is generally
unequal, with about 50% of the farm families having 5 ha or less, but owning
about 20% of the total agricultural land. There are two land tenure issues
requiring resolution.
(a) Private farms are excessively fragmented with 1.2 million
farms divided into 9.2 million parcels. The average size of
a parcel is 0.5 ha, too small for efficient farming. The
successful land consolidation program undertaken in irrigated
areas should be duplicated in rainfed areas. The Bank's
Meknes Project is a first attempt at land consolidation in
the rainfed sector, but it is still at an early stage and
has not yet produced results which can be replicated in
the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project. Lessons learned
under the Meknes Project with respect to land consolidation
would be incorporated into the Phase II Project now being
prepared in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region (para 1.11).
(b) Absentee landlords often hold land for speculative purposes
and do not cultivate it. If cultivated, it is often by
tenant farmers who have no security of tenure and as a
result have no incentive to invest or to improve the land.
An obligation to cultivate the land, and regulations to



- 4 -
increase the security of tenure are required.  These are
unlikely to come about during the next plan although the
Government is debating ways in which to resolve this issue.
The Bank has contributed to the debate on these issues in
its sector and project work.
The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project does not address land tenure issues
because there is little absentee ownership and tenant farming in the Project
area (para 2.05). The Project's focus is on problems of extension, credit,
social infrastructure, and soil erosion.
1.09      Rural Poverty and Underemployment.  About 45% of Moroccan farm
families live at or below the absolute poverty level, and are underemployed.
The issues discussed above have been important causes for the slow progress
in reducing rural poverty and in generating employment outside cf irrigated
areas. Other contributing factors include the limited access of the rural
poor to institutionalized credit and a somewhat inefficient inpput supply
system which favors large farmers. A modest agrarian reform was supposed to
improve the situation of poor farmers, but thus far its impact on rural
poverty and employment has been negligible. About 4% of landless workers,
sharecroppers, and subsistence farmers should have received land under the
agrarian reform program by the end of 1977. The Bank has increasingly targeted
its agricultural projects in Morocco to the rural poor. While t:he first two
Agricultural Credit Projects financed large farmers and Government farms, the
third provided more than 45% of Bank financing to small farmers, and a possible
fourth will do the same. The two recent Doukkala Irrigation Projects financed
by the Bank benefitted primarily small farmers. The Meknes Project will bene-
fit primarily small farmers in the rainfed sector, as would the forthcoming
Loukkos Rural Development Project. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricult-ural Project
includes a component for financing the short-term credit requirements of small
farmers and for creating input supply centers in each district to provide
small farmers with physical access to modern inputs. Most of the Project's
social infrastructure components, including education, health, water supply
and extension are directed to small farmers.
1.10      Erosion and Desertification.  One of the consequences of increasing
population pressure in rural areas is the deterioration of much of the nation's
crop and grazing land. In areas such as the pre-Rif, the foothills of the
Atlas Mountains, the Sebou and other watersheds, insufficient measures have
been taken to control erosion. The Fes-Karia-Tissa AgriculturaL Project, and
the Loukkos Project now being prepared, are both located in these areas and
would incorporate considerable soil conservation components.
1.11      The Evolving Government Strategy and the Role of the Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agricultural Project.  Government strategy has evolved considerably and a
serious effort can now be expected in the rainfed sector, benefitting a
greater percentage of small farmers. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project
is experimental, embodying many of Government's new ideas for extension,



- 5 -
credit, training, farmer organization, soil conservation, and development of
social infrastructure. The Project's proposals for (a) improving the exten-
sion service, credit and input distribution, agricultural research, and social
infrastructure, (b) establishing an erosion control program, and (c) organiz-
ing farmers into groups for the acquisition of credit and inputs, would
directly confront some of the major issues in Moroccan agriculture, and would
be replicable. A second phase project is being prepared which would expand
on these achievements, concentrating on small and medium irrigation, live-
stock, village water supply and employment generation opportunities. How-
ever, problems of land tenure, absorptive capacity, erosion, and hence rural
poverty will continue to be areas of policy discussion between the Bank and
Morocco in project and sector work.
F. Performance under Previous Projects
1.12      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to
date 10 projects have been undertaken and supported by US$278 million in
Bank/IDA funds (US$24 million of which in IDA credits). They include five
irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss
Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76), and Doukkala Il (FY77). There have
also been three Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66, FY73, FY77), an Agro-
industries and Flood Control Project (Sebou II, FY74), and a Rainfed Agricul-
tural Development Project in the Meknes region (FY75). Except for Sebou II
and Meknes, these projects are performing generally well. There has been
an OED report dealing with the First Agricultural Credit Project in Morocco,
which was discussed in the appraisal of a Third Agricultural Credit Project
(Report No. 1308-MOR), December 1976. The OED report found a low economic
return to the farm mechanization financed through the agricultural credit
project, and generally weak management of the Agricultural Credit Institu-
tion (CNCA). The appraisal report cited above found CNCA to be considerably
strengthened since the first Bank loan. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural
Project includes no credit for farm mechanization.
1.13      The Sebou II Project is facing delays because of land acquisition
problems related to the construction of flood protection works. The problem
is under study by both Government and the Bank, although delays permitted a
recent flood to do more damage than necessary. Performance in irrigation
projects suffered temporarily from problems of land distribution, organization,
delays in construction and in acquisition of irrigation equipment, and inade-
quate cost recovery. Implementation delays have been caused primarily by lack
of coordination between participating Ministries and Departments. An issue
relevant to the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project is the implementation
delays caused by lack of interdepartmental and ministerial coordination. Such
delays should be minimized for the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project since a
Provincial Committee to coordinate project components has already been estab-
lished and meets regularly under the chairmanship of the Governor of Fes (para
4.01).



- 6 -
1.14      The problems encountered by the Meknes Project are not expected to
occur for the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project. The major issue in the
Meknes Project has been the delay in land redistribution. As indicated in
para 1.08 there is no land distribution component in the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agri-
cultural Project. A second issue under Meknes has been project start-up
delays, poor communication and poorly defined division of responsibilities
between the Project Authority and the Central Government. The system of
communication between the Central Government and the Project Authority in Fes
was established during project preparation to avoid recurrence of the Meknes
problem. Responsibilities have been clearly allocated between the various
participants in the Project, again on the basis of the Meknes experience. A
recent supervision mission to Meknes (February 1978) reported considerable
progress on Project issues.
Il. PROJECT AREA
A. Location
2.01      The Project area includes 354,000 ha north of the city of Fes (see
M4ap) and has a population of 280,000 living in about 800 villages. The Proj-
ect area is administered through the three counties of Karia-Ba-Mohammed,
Tissa, and Fes Banlieue and is subdivided into 18 districts. It includes
about 60% of the cultivated area of the Province of Fes.
2.02      Topography, Geology, Soils.  The topography is generally hilly.
Forty percent of the land has slopes in excess of 25% while only 10% of the
area has slopes less than 15%. Surface material is derived mainly from marls
and is frequently pierced by red saline clays. Land slides are frequent and
usually a result of erosion undercutting. At least 84% of the soils are
heavy clays and have excellent water-retaining characteristics and good
agricultural potential. However, they are erosion prone and winter runoff
is high. No drainage problems have been encountered or are expected to be
encountered because of contour planting under hillside farming. Groundwater
potential is practically non-existent or already overdeveloped.
2.03      Climate is Mediterranean with humid winters beginning in November
and hot-dry summers commencing in June. Average annual number of rainy days
is 51. The relatively abundant rainfall is subject to large annual fluctua-
tions in quantity, timing, and duration. Due to the high runoff rates, these
fluctuations are reflected in the discharge rates of the area's rivers. Only
the Sebou, Inaouene and Ouergha have perennial flow. The average annual rain-
fall is 520 mm of which about 400 mm is received from November through April.
Average monthly maximum and minimum temperatures vary between 16 and 41 0C and
5 and 190C respectively.



- 7 -
B. Land Use, Land Tenure and Farm Size
Land Use
2.04      About 266,600 ha in the Project area are considered to be agricul-
tural land. Of this, about 130,000 ha are sufficiently sloping to require
conservation farming if their productivity is to be maintained. Rough graz-
ing land, scrub forest, large areas of bare ground, planted forest, and land
occupied by housing, roads, and waterways account for the remaining 87,400 ha.
Population pressure has contributed to a generally severe erosion problem
which has created a wasteland out of an estimated 70,000 ha in the grazing and
scrub forest areas. Cropping patterns are discussed in paras 2.12 and 2.13.
Land Tenure
2.05      Privately-owned individual farms are the rule throughout most of
the region, as shown below:
% of Total
Ha      Farmland
Individually-owned                         228,550       86.0
"Habous" /a                                 16,050        6.0
"Guich" /b                                  22,000        8.0
Total Farmland                             266,600      100.0
% of Total
Ha     Non-Farmland
Privately-owned                             77,400       89.0
State-owned                                  5,000        5.5
Collectively-owned                           5,000        5.5
Total Non-Farmland                          87,400      100.0
/a   Land owned by Religious Foundations.
/b   Land given to tribes in recognition of military service.
Source: Project Preparation Report
State-owned land occupies about 5,000 ha and collectively-held land accounts
for about the same amount. All of this land is either planted in forest trees
or under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture's Work Centers (C.T.).
Farm Size and Absentee Ownership
2.06      The division of agricultural land into farms is summarized as
follows:



-8-
Farm Size                        % of Total      % of Total
(ha)                             Number           Area
Less than 5 ha                          56.0            17.1
Between 6 and 10 ha                     23.0            19.2
Between 11 and 20 ha                    13.0            22.5
Between 20 and 40 ha                     5.0            20.0
Over 40 ha                               3.0            21..2
Total                                 100.0            100.0
About 33,900 farm families live in the project area. Estimates place the area
belonging to absentee landlords at about 40,000 ha in the Fes Banlieue and
Tissa Counties, while absentee ownership in Karia County is negligible. It is
estimated that about half or less of these 40,000 ha are operated by share-
croppers; the remainder are managed by resident employees.
C. Agricultural Support Services
2.07      Agricultural Extension.  The existing effort is carried out by 39
staff based on 14 Work Centers. Extension agents sell fertilizer, seeds,
plant protection products and small agricultural tools as well as organize
custom field operations for farmers who request them. The entire staff is
also responsible for administering agricultural regulations and conducting
surveys concerning agriculture. Hence the Work Centers act as a crop report-
ing and agricultural data service, as a police force for certain agricultural
programs, and as supply service for agricultural inputs. Extension activities
tend to get low priority. Inadequately trained and insufficiently supervised
extension agents are responsible for territories that are too large (average
1,059 farmers/agent) to handle effectively considering the difficult communi-
cations and unavailability of transport. Activities are also hampered by
poor coordination with research and insufficient support from provincial
headquarters. These various factors, coupled with too few incentives, have
resulted in a generally low state of morale among extension personnel.
2.08      Agricultural Research.  At Douiet, about 12 km from Fes, the National
Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA) operates a 600 ha research and seed
farm mainly for the production of foundation seed of several leading wheat
varieties. Regional replications of national trials are also carried out.
INRA also operates a fruit research station near Ain Taoujdate, in the neigh-
boring Province of Meknes. Work done at this station is under irrigated con-
ditions and not directly applicable to the Project area.
2.09      Training.  MARA's Agricultural Development Department, operates three
schools for training youth to become agricultural agents. One of these is
located at Sahel Boutahar, just outside the northern edge of the Project area.
The school provides a two-year course leading to the civil service grade of
technical agent. About 60 graduate annually. They generally have only a
theoretical knowledge of agriculture which is of little use to the rural
population with whom they are supposed to work. This is the result of various
inadequacies including staffing, equipment, and curriculum of the school.



- 9 -
2.10      Inputs.  The state fertilizer distribution company has a large dis-
tribution center at Meknes, about 60 km from the Project area.  They also have
a network of private wholesalers, but truckers are forced to use the worn-out
road system in order to distribute fertilizer to the more remote parts of the
area. Fertilizer is frequently resold at double Government-approved prices.
As a result, too little fertilizer is used and this by too few farmers. Plant
protection products and other physical inputs such as farm machinery and hard-
ware are available from retailers in Fes and at the village markets.  However,
farmers frequently bring their tractors and equipment to Fes for repairs since
there are few village blacksmiths or mechanics in the Project area and these
are poorly equipped.
D. Credit
2.11      The Bank has provided three loans to the National Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA), which has been appraised to be well managed -.nc efficient.
The CNCA has a regional office (CRCA) in Fes which serves large and medium
sized farmers in the Project area, and three local branches (CLCA) serving the
Project area's small farmers.  Medium-term credits have been used primarily
for purchase of farm machinery, draft animals, and for construction of build-
ings. Credits have been used to a lesser extent to purchase vehicles, irriga-
tion equipment, other equipment, plantations, and for soil improvement. In
spite of a major effort by the CNCA to expand its loan program nationwide,
only about 20% of the potential clients of the CLCA's in the Project area have
received credit. Agricultural credit still tends to benefit larger farmers.
There is therefore a need to expand credit availability to small farmers in
order to finance the acquisition of modern inputs. Low interest rates were an
issue in the past, but the new rates effective September 1, 1977 are consis-
tent with covenants under the Bank's Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1361-MOR) and are about 8% on CLCA loans and 5 to 8.5% on CRCA loans depending
on use.
E. Agricultural Production and Yields
2.12      Crops.  Wheat, both durum and bread, is the major crop and occupies
57% of the cultivated area; pulses, such as broad beans, chick peas and len-
tils, together account for 27%. Olives, planted on about 20,000 ha or 8% of
the farm land, are the only significant tree crop. Yields are generally con-
sidered to be from 40% to 60% of potential considering the relative abundance
of good soil and adequate rainfall. This is due in most cases to overall poor
farm management. Increased use of inputs over the past ten years has not been
matched by an increase in application skills. There is widespread ignorance
of how to use high production technology. In many cases, production technol-
ogy applicable to the region has not yet been adapted by research though
similar and relevant technology is being used successfully in other countries.
2.13      Livestock production is constrained by inadequate provision of for-
age, frequency of diseases, inadequate veterinary care, and overstocking of



- 10 -
low-quality grazing areas as well as lack of water.  There are about 242,000
sheep, 100,000 large animals, and 22,000 goats in the Project area. Horses,
mules and donkeys constitute 34% of the large animals. Individual flocks and
herds consist on average of seven sheep and four large animals, and hardly vary
with the farmers' holding size. The inadequate feeding resource includes
straw and grazing (fallow areas, stubble, and so called range or pasture) and
occasionally a little bran. Concentrate or grain are rarely fed to pregnant
or milk producing animals. Mortality, especially in lambs, is high. Yields
of meat, milk and wool are low and the production potential is not fully
utilized. Exceptions are the few large farms (over 40 ha) with larger flocks
or herds, where feeding as well as yields are better. Provision of agro-
industrial by-products (e.g. bran, molasses, pulp, oil cakes) is negligible.
This situation is not likely to change because of the priority for concentrates
given to poultry and milk producers outside the Project area. Beef (115 kg
carcass weight) and milk (250 to 500 kg per cow per year) production are less
important in the Project area than in the plains south of it where there is
irrigation. Annual meat production in the Project area is estimated to
include 850 tons of beef and 1,500 tons of sheep and goat meat (live weight
basis). These figures include home consumption. Since the Project area is
mainly a mutton producing region, any meaningful increase in livestock produc-
tion would require increased on-farm production of feed and forage, improved
veterinary care, and provision of adequate water supply for the area's flocks.
F. Infrastructure
2.14      Water Supply.  Water in the Project area is obtained from about a
thousand shallow (12 m deep) hand dug wells in which the groundwater may rise
to about 3 m below the surface or disappear towards October.  These wells
cannot be developed due to the low transmissivity of the surrounding clay
strata. Of 580 wells and sources tested 569 had discharges smaller than 0.4
1/sec. The remaining varied between 0.4 and 3.3 1/sec. The only existing
groundwater potential of any magnitude, at Karia, is already overdeveloped.
Attempts to create hillside lakes have failed because of rapid siltation. In
spite of improvements of existing wells carried out by the MARA's Directorate
of Rural Engineering, the incidence of reported typhoid cases in the Project
area was 115 in 1974 and 55 in 1975. Sufficient potable water can only be
provided by high-cost treatment and distribution systems using surface water.
A few such arrangements are already performing satisfactorily; more are
needed.
2.15      Roads.  The Project area contains a number of primary roads in good
condition but the secondary and tertiary network has deteriorated through lack
of maintenance and some roads are now impassable after rain (Map IBRD 13377R).
The tertiary road network was constructed before 1950 and has adequate density
of 0.15 km per km2 and adequate alignment. A major part of the tertiary roads
have deteriorated to a point of being impassable in the wet season. The
difficult topography, soils and climate greatly contribute to this situation.
The condition of the tertiary road network can be roughly classified into (a)
paved roads, (b) roads consisting of gravel foundation and structures, (c)
roads consisting of completed earthwork and structures, and (d) dirt tracks.



- il -
2.16      The distribution of these various classes in the Project area is
as follows:
Original Condition       a        b        c        d       Total
km             235.6   96.8      28.8    152.0    513.2
%              45.9   18.9       5.6      29.6    100.0
Present Condition
km             154.8   38.8    164.6    155.0    513.2
%              30.1    7.6      32.1      30.2    100.0
2.17      The deterioration of the tertiary road network which emerges from
the above table indicates an overall degradation from classes a and b to c.
Lack of maintenance due to lack of skilled staff, equipment and adequate
budget has had a severe impact on all classes of roads. A program of road
rehabilitation and maintenance is needed to prevent further deterioration of
the road system.
2.18      Education.  There are 90 primary schools in the area with 287
classes for about 9,300 students. Only 82 new classrooms have been con-
structed in the past five years. The occupation rate of only 32 students per
class is achieved by a "rotation scheme" by which two classes per day alter-
nate in shifts in the same classroom. Rotation takes place in 130 of the
classrooms and is considered the principal reason for the low rate of school
attendance illustrated by the fact that only 24% of the seven-year olds attend
class. Other constraints to primary education include:
(a)  the custom of using children as shepherds;
(b)  the large proportion of adobe classrooms unsuitable for cold,
humid winter conditions;
(c)  a critical shortage of housing for teachers near the schools;
and
(d)  a road system which permits vehicular access to only one-
third of all schools.
2.19      Health.  Existing infrastructure consists of Health Centers in Karia
(40 beds), Tissa (30 beds), and Ben Souda (outside the Project area) together
administering 22 rural dispensaries. This is considered below Government
standards for the area's 280,000 inhabitants. The shortage of housing for
staff, radiological equipment and ambulances are additional constraints in the
health care system.
2.20      Power supply will be more important for water supply and irrigation
in the second phase of the Project (para 1.11). A 22 kV line connects Ain
Gdah via Tissa, Ain Aicha to El Kelaa des Sles (Map IBRD 13377R). Also con-
nected to 22 kV lines are Rhouazi, Karia, Moulay Yacoub, and Ain Kansera. A
generator is located in Ajajra.



- 12 -
2.21      Telephone system is inadequate.  Only the three work centers, Karia,
Tissa and Douiet, are connected to Fes and the lines are mostly out of order.
G. Conclusions
2.22      In spite of the excellent agricultural potential of the region
(Chapter V), production has been limited by numerous constraints. Among
these, poor farming practices and generally poor farm management are perhaps
the most important. The extension service has been largely unable to improve
this situation due to insufficient numbers and logistical support and insuffi-
cient technical support from research. Training of extension personnel has
been inappropriate, and assigning them responsibility for agricultural admin-
istration has further decreased their potential effectiveness. However,
technical packages of practices exist which would permit substantial yield
increases for most crops, and these could be extended immediatel.y. Injudi-
cious land use has contributed to poor water conservation and extensive soil
loss. The input situation, including the availability of credit to small
farmers, needs improvement. Livestock production is largely a f-unction of
forage supplies which, under present conditions, are limited by poor range
management and insufficient hay production. The road network needs extensive
improvement and maintenance. Facilities for primary education are overcrowded
and those for health inadequate. The present water supply situation is also
unsatisfactory.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Objectives
3.01      The Government has requested financing for a project which would
develop agricultural potential under rainfed conditions, improve the income
of small farmers, reduce Morocco's dependency on imports of food commodities
and provide rural employment. The Project was identified by an FAO/IBRD - CP
mission in May 1976. A Moroccan team of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform, assisted by several CP-missions, prepared the Project which
also aims at overcoming regional disparities in Government services . The
Bank's Appraisal Mission of September/October 1977 was followed by a Post
Appraisal Mission in February 1978.
3.02      The Project's primary objective during the first phase of the devel-
opment of the Fes-Karia-Tissa region would be the improvement of the well-
being of about 33,900 farm families. Major efforts would be directed towards
improving their income through increased agricultural productivity. Farming
practices would be improved on about 256,000 ha of the area's 266,600 ha. The
Project is intended to serve as a model for other agricultural and rural devel-
opment projects in Morocco, since it should improve rural income and social



- 13 -
well-being, increase employment opportunities, and reduce the rate of urban
migration.
3.03      Strategy.  The Project would attain its objectives through (a)
improvements to the existing extension and research services; (b) increased
credit availability; (c) improvements in the organization of input supply; (d)
erosion control; (e) wasteland rehabilitation; and (f) investments in infra-
structure such as roads, schools, health facilities, and water supply. Both
farming practices and farm management would be improved and more inputs would
be used. The Australian ley farming system (annual medics) would be intro-
duced on an experimental basis and forage production increased with only minor
adjustments to the basic cropping pattern of cereals and pulses. The strategy
was developed as the best of several alternatives each of which emphasized
different components.
B. Description of the Project
Agricultural Services
3.04      Agricultural services in the Project area would be centralized in 18
agricultural centers provided by the Project. The extension service (para 3.05),
farm supply stores and farm machinery repair centers would be located in the
centers. The Project would provide necessary buildings which would be leased
to suppliers in the case of stores and repair centers. Stores would sell farm
inputs (seeds, fertilizer, plant protection, and machine services) and thereby
free extension staff from supply tasks. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the Government would (i) provide the required number of buildings
for stores and repair centers; (ii) lease such stores and centers to private
persons, companies, or farmers' groups by August 31, 1981; and (iii) require
the operators to operate the stores and centers according to reasonable com-
mercial practices and to assure a timely supply of inputs, including fertili-
zers, pesticides and herbicides, in adequate quantities and at reasonable prices.
3.05      Extension.  The Project would provide housing, office space, vehicles
and vehicle-operating expenses for 87 extension agents. Four subject-matter
specialists would provide backstopping for the extension team. The Project
would also finance the purchase of supplies and services for an audio-visual
support unit as well as a radio-communications network linking all 18 Agricul-
tural Centers with the headquarters in Fes.  After project completion the number
of extension agents will be reduced to the advantage of other areas in Morocco.
3.06      Livestock.  The livestock component would be based on increased pro-
duction of forage for sheep and an intensified veterinary service. Vetch-oats
would be the major forage crop to be grown on a large scale. Range develop-
ment and the introduction of Australian medics would further add to forage
supply. Three veterinary stations, eight livestock dips and housing for four
veterinarians would be constructed in the Project area. Four additional
veterinarians would be provided as well as supporting staff, vehicles, and
equipment. Improved nutrition and veterinary care would increase the lamb
weaning rate and promote sheep fattening.



- 14 -
3.07      Training.  The Project would include two innovative additions to the
existing training system: a one year farm management and operation course,
and a home economics course for girls. The farm management course would be
added to the regular two-year extension training program now given at the
Technical Agricultural School of Sahel Boutahar (Map No. 13377R), located just
north of the Project area. The course would be for 30 graduates who intend
to take up careers in extension. The Project would construct housing for an
expatriate training expert and three assistants as well as provide all neces-
sary equipment and vehicles for the implementation of the program. It would
also finance training equipment, transport vehicles, buildings and housing to
reinforce the logistical support provided by the school. For the course in
home economics the Project would provide an instructor, instructor housing, a
dormitory, and a modestly-equipped laboratory-classroom. This would be the
first home economics program financed by the Bank in Morocco. The Project
would further finance up to eight months of practical overseas training for
each of 30 trainees in Australian Medic Production, extension training, hill-
side farming, olive production, and range management (para 4.04).
3.08      Research and Demonstration.  The Government is undeci,ded on a future
policy for Moroccan agricultural research. It is not now certain whether the
Government's Agricultural Research Department will continue with its present
responsibilities, its present network of research stations, or its present
staff. Because of this uncertainty, the Project includes only a modest
research component consisting primarily of on-farm trials to test the pos-
sibilities of increasing farm profitability through increased forage produc-
tion. The Project would include an Australian medic research and demonstration
program, provide overseas training for three Moroccan agronomists, technical
assistance, and all equipment and vehicles necessary to carry out large-scale
trials on 1,500 ha. In addition, the Project would establish a 50 ha station
within the Project area which would serve as a support base for on-farm trials
and demonstrations. Research would be carried out on hillside farming tech-
niques and olive production. A collection of local olive cultivars having
valuable genetic characteristics would be established on the station. Produc-
tion management studies would be made on representative farms in the region.
Four houses, a field laboratory, and storage space would be provided as well
as salaries, vehicles and equipment for two agronomists and supporting staff.
Three Moroccan horticulturists would receive overseas training in olive
production.
3.09      Hillside Farming.  About 130,000 ha of cultivated land are suffi-
ciently sloping to require soil and water conservation measures. However,
Morocco has accumulated very little experience in applying such measures on
privately-held land similar to that in the Project area. Certain of these
measures require changes in field layout, limitation of grazing, or taking
land out of crop production either temporarily or permanently. All of them
require a more sophisticated level of farm management. The farmers' reaction
to such proposals is uncertain. Therefore, the Project would introduce con-
servation farming on a pilot basis limited to 6,500 ha which would be imple-
mented with the wasteland component to establish a coordinated watershed
management program. Provision of vegetative cover would be the principal
theme. Contour farming, semi-permanent pasture strips, grassed waterways, and



- 15 -
grade-stabilization structures should provide most of the necessary erosion
control. The Project would provide salaries, housing, offices, equipment and
storage space necessary to establish three 6-man hillside farming teams
(including support staff) within the Project area. It would also provide
practical overseas training for 15 technicians and 44 man-months of technical
assistance as well as vehicles and vehicle-operating expenses, and the costs
of an extensive demonstration program.
3.10      Wasteland Improvement.  About 70,000 ha of non-cultivated land
require conservation measures to prevent further desertification of land
which still has some marginal productivity and to protect further encroach-
ment of wasteland on cultivated areas. However, feasibility of such measures
has never been fully tested in Morocco under conditions similar to those in
the Project area. Reclaiming such land is also expensive. Therefore, this
component would be limited to 18,000 ha and would include olive tree planting
on 8,000 ha, afforestation of canary pine on 3,000 ha, establishment of vege-
tative cover (acacia and eucalyptus) on 2,000 ha, gully control on 3,500 ha,
range improvement on 1,500 ha, and construction of 50 km of forest access
roads. Labor-intensive works will be required to implement this component.
The Project would provide salaries, housing, offices, equipment and storage
necessary to establish three wasteland improvement teams within the Project
area. The teams would include 13 foresters and 18 support staff; staff
vehicles and vehicle-operating expenses would also be provided. A range man-
agement sub-component would deal with the problem of overgrazing. Successful
implementation of this sub-component would require temporary removal of all
livestock during pasture renovation followed by controlled grazing and
destocking in times of drought. Such measures may require herd and flock
registration and local livestock owners would be hired to work on project
works as an incentive to cooperate with the Government. Assurances were
obtained from the Government that all actions carried out under this component
would be guided by the principle of voluntary agreement between the MARA and
the cooperating farmers and livestock men as provided under the existing
Agricultural Investment Code. The Government has also agreed to communicate
to the Bank the substance of such cooperative agreements before implementing
the wasteland improvement program.
3.11      Consultants.  The Project would provide architects/engineers for the
design, construction and supervision of works as well as agricultural consultant.
For certain components, engineering services within the concerned ministries
are adequate; for others, outside domestic or foreign consultants may be
required. Due to the innovative character of several of the Project's com-
ponents, and limitations posed by the present staff situation in many of
MARA's departments, it is likely that 15 man-years of consultants' services
will be required. These would be for agricultural research and demonstration
program (4), agricultural training (3), hillside farming and range management
(6), monitoring and evaluation (1), and short-term consultants (1) (TORs in
Annex 4, C4). Assurances were obtained that experts whose qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank would
be employed for the agricultural components of the project and that architects/
engineers for the design, construction, and supervision of works would be
recruited by January 31, 1979. Needs for consultants services are estimated
to total about 35 man-years (excluding 22 man-years for feasibility studies)
and would cost an average of about US$7,850 per man-month.



- 16 -
Credit
3.12      The Project's basic strategy is to improve crop yields by providing
improved input packages to farmers, and by assisting farmers to improve the
efficiency of input use. In order to permit farmers to finance the additional
farm inputs required by these technological packages, a substantial increase
in the amount of short term credit available to small farmers, and in the
number of farmers receiving short term credit, will be required. The Bank's
Third Agricultural Credit Project in Morocco (Report No. 1308-MOR) provides
for medium and long-term credit to small as well as large farmers. The only
increase in medium and long-term credit above that already projected by The
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) for the project area, would be for
olive tree plantations. The short-term credit required to finance the tech-
nical packages would be supplied in the project area by:
(a)  providing financing for incremental short-term credit to
CLCA 1/ clients under the Project;
(b) grouping small farmers' credit applications to the CLCA's
and providing for joint repayment responsibility by farmers'
groups (see para 4.12);
(c) changing the CLCAs' criteria for loan approval and for
estimating loan requirements (para 4.12);
(d) increasing the staff and facilities of the CLCAs in the
region; and
(e) providing increased responsibility to crop subject matter
specialists and extension agents for providing the technical
information necessary to estimate credit requirements (para 4.12).
3.13      Short-term production credit would be used under the Project for the
purchase of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and machine services as specified
by the technical packages to be introduced. Harvest credit would be available
to pay for harvest labor or machine services. An estimate of incremental
short-term credit requirements which would result from introduction of the
Project's technical packages has been made on the basis of projection of
sources and uses of funds for five typical farms (Annex 4, C4). Short-term
credit requirements of CLCA clients were estimated as a declining annual per-
centage of input costs, with 90% of a farmer's input costs financed under his
first and second loans, 80% in his third and fourth, and 70% thereafter.
Input needs would be determined from the components of the technical packages
and introduced by extension agents (para 4.12). The Project is expected to
generate the following annual input use at full development, about 70% of
which would be financed by short-term credit.
1/   CLCA Local Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Locale du Credit Agricole)
provides credit to small farmers.



- 17 -
Certified seed                             12,000 tons
Fertilizer                                 40,000 tons
Plant Protection Products                     600 tons
Machine Services                        1,300,000 hours
Responsibility for determining creditworthiness would rest with the CLCA with
technical information provided by extension agents (para 4.12). Assurances
were obtained that the total amount of short-term credit available to each
farmer served by a CLCA would be limited by the rule that the debt service
for all loans cannot exceed 50% of the farmer's potential income as assessed
by the extension and CLCA's agents. Incremental short-term credit require-
ments would total DH 73.7 million including contingencies. Credit would be
repaid and re-lent annually, the increment equal to DH 10.9 million in 1979,
increasing to DH 18.6 million in 1981, and declining thereafter. The average
CLCA short-term loan per farm would increase from DH 700 in 1976/77 to DH
2,075 in 1981 (1978 prices). The increase is necessary in order to finance
the additional inputs included in the technical packages. The number of bene-
ficiaries of CLCA loans in the Project area would increase from 4,906 farmers
in 1976/77 to 23,600 at full Project development after six years. These
increases would be made possible by changes in CLCA lending criteria proce-
dures, and staffing (paras 3.15 and 4.12). The Project would not finance
the short-term credit requirements of CRCA clients 1/ (large farmers) because
the normal growth in present credit would be adequate. No change in CRCA
lending criteria or procedures would be required. The number of CRCA clients
is projected to increase from about 1,470 in 1976/77 to 2,750 at full Project
development.
3.14       Incremental requirements of medium- and long-term loans would be
limited to the financing of new fruit tree plantations. The total amount of
credit required for these purposes, and financed under the Project, would
equal DH 3.8 million (1978 prices), plus DH 3.7 million in physical and price
contingencies. It is estimated that present conditions for other medium-term
credits are satisfactory, including those of farm machinery, and that CRCA's
financial and staff resources can handle the future demand for these credits
so that no special provision need be made in the Project (para 2.11).
3.15      To bring the credit facilities closer to farmers, six mobile CLCA
credit outlets would be created in addition to the three existing CLCA branches
in the Project area.  Each mobile unit and each of the three existing branches
would serve two districts.  Based on experience with farmer associations in
Moroccan land reform cooperatives it is estimated that a loan officer can
process credit applications of 40 groups, i.e. 600 farmers.  About 4,500
farmers will be served as clients each year.  To satisfy the estimated 23,600
potential clients of the CLCAs in the Project zone, 40 loan officers and three
CLCA Directors will be required at full development. Presently 16 loan offi-
cers and three Directors serve the Project area. Twenty four additional loan
1/   CRCA Regional Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Regionale du Credit
Agricole) provides credit to medium and large farmers.



- 18 -
officers will therefore be required beginning with 12 in Year two and increas-
ing by three each year until Year five. Six mobile credit trucks will be
required as well as 30 houses and five automobiles. Total investment and
establishment costs through 1984 are estimated at about DH 18.5 million
(US$4.3 million) including price and physical contingencies. The credit com-
ponent should not increase the ratio of CLCAs' nationwide financial loss to
operating cost above its present level (39% in 1975/76), because (a) grouping
of loans will reduce administrative cost per farmer reached (para 4.11), and
(b) the mobile credit units have been shown to have lower overhead costs per
farmer reached. CLCA interest rates were increased on September 1, 1977, as
required by the loan agreement between the Bank and CNCA to the CNCA III Proj-
ect. CNCA's average lending terms for short-term credit (8.5% interest rate)
would apply in the project area. The part of the Bank loan on-lent by Govern-
ment to CNCA would be on the same terms as the Bank loan to Government (para
3.23). At the present IBRD interest rate of 7.5%, this would give CNCA a 1%
spread on sub-loans under the Project. When combined with the average cost of
money to CLCA, this should reduce the financial loss to operating cost ratio
of overall CLCA lending below the present 39%. The risks involved in this
component are dealt with in paragraphs 4.10 through 4.13.
Infrastructure
3.16      Roads.  The Project area is served by a network of 513 km of rural
roads (Map IBRD 13377R). However, although the network configuration is
adequate to provide the communication links needed, most of the roads are
little better than tracks. Many are passable only in the dry season and in
their present condition are a disincentive to the use of motor vehicles. In
order to improve communications and to facilitate the movement of crops and
other goods, the Project provides for the rehabilitation and upgrading of this
network as follows:
(i) the construction of about 139 km of single-lane paved
roads on the approximate alignments of old dirt tracks;
(ii) the rehabilitation of about 245 km of old roads, some of
which had been only partly constructed in the past; and
(iii)  the realignment of about 30 km of existing single-lane
paved roads.
Standards and details concerning these roads appear appropriate and are
given in Annex 3. In many cases costs appear high for roads oi this com-
paratively low standard. However, the costs indicate the difficult subsoil
conditions encountered on some of the roads which will involve substantial
pavement reinforcement, and on others the heavy investments in retaining
walls and other structures in order to counter the inherent instability of
the cut slopes adjacent to the roads. The Project also provides US$300,000
for the purchase of mechanical equipment to enable two new road maintenance
brigades to operate in the Project area.
3.17      Water Supply.  Improvement of water supply throughout the Project
area would be costly because of the scattered settlements and the necessity of



- 19 -
obtaining water from distant surface sources. Alternative solutions which
were investigated included (i) collection of rainfall water in cisterns and
(ii) trucking in of treated water. Both solutions were impractical. The
Project would include two systems for which technical studies were prepared,
covering about 20% of the Project area. The entire Project area was not
covered because (a) designs are not yet complete for the remaining area, (b)
additional water supply systems can be undertaken in the Phase II project now
under preparation, and (c) Government wanted to phase the development of rural
water supply in the Project area over a longer time period due to its high
cost and uncertainty about the acceptability of high water charges to the farm
population. One system, at M'Kansa, would be powered by a diesel generating
unit and the other would use existing power at Ain Gdah and serve Ain Gdah and
Outa Bouabane. The diesel powered system at M'Kansa was included because in
the future similar systems at other locations are considered. It cannot be
expected that a power network would ever be installed that would be suffi-
ciently dense to serve all locations which are in need of water supply. Both
systems would consist of a river pumping station feeding a treatment plan con-
sisting of primary settlement, a slow sand filter and chlorination. From the
treatment plant, trunk mains would feed public fountains located along the
main and along relatively short branch-offs. For diameters smaller than 60
mm, PVC pipes would be used and between 60 to 400 mm asbestos cement.  System
losses were assumed at 30%. A number of 50 m3 reservoirs would equalize fluc-
tuations in pressure and demand. System capacity would be based on 40 1 per
capita per day for human consumption, 50 1/day for large animals and 10 1/day
for sheep. System capacities are designed for demand projections up to the
year 2000. The system of M'Kansa with a gross capacity of 4,000 m3/day would
serve 85 villages with a population of 17,300 and 31,500 animals. The
Ain Gdah-Outa Bouabane system, with a gross capacity of 6,800 m3/day, would
serve 91 villages with a population of 29,000 and 50,900 animals.
3.18      Health.  The proposed facilities represent the Ministry's proposal
for additions to the health infrastructure for the next five-year plan. The
Project would provide for the construction of buildings and equipment for four
health centers at Ain Gdah, Oulja, Ain Bouali and Mikkes; and one rural dis-
pensary in Bouchabel. Project works would consist of the construction of
five central buildings and 14 staff houses, and procurement of four X-ray
machines, four ambulances and eight vehicles.
3.19      Education.  The Project would finance the following construction:
68 classrooms, with accompanying furniture and sanitary facilities, 22 dining
halls, 152 teacher housing units, 1 office (in Moulay Yacoub), 13 enclosure
walls, 5 power connections, and 10 connections to water supply systems. No
new schools would be built, and all construction would replace or expand
classrooms in 27 existing schools.
3.20      Feasibility Studies.  The Government requested facilities for the
preparation of further agricultural projects by consultants. During negotia-
tions, it was agreed that the Bank would provide for financing of (i) a comple-
mentary feasibility study of the Loukkos Rural Development Project and (ii) a



- 20 -
feasibility study for a second phase agricultural project in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region. Terms of reference for the Loukkos Project study will be
defined after the visit of a project preparation mission foreseen for June
1978. Terms of reference for the second phase of the Fes-Karia--Tissa Agricul-
tural Project will be formulated during 1980, when the present Project is far
enough underway to allow better definition of the second phase Project.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.21      A monitoring and evaluation system would be established to determine
on a timely basis the impact of Project components on Project objectives and
to provide information to the Project's management on actions taken by the
various agencies involved in the Project. The system, to be operational by
early 1980, would collect information on inputs, activities, anci outputs of
the project so as to inform management about potential implementation problems
requiring corrective action. The system would also permit analysis of the
impact of project activities on project objectives (including iunmediate objec-
tives of kilometers of roads built, number of farmers reached, water taps
constructed, as well as on ultimate objectives such as crop yields, cropping
patterns, marketed output, rural income and employment). This E!valuation
would be the basis for periodic project design improvements, and would be
integrated into preparation of similar projects to be undertaken in other
areas of Morocco. The system would be implemented by staff front the Economic
and Statistical Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, and umanaged by
the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project Director. One year of consultant services would
be provided to assist in establishing this system. Assurances were obtained
that Government would submit to the Bank for its approval a detailed design
of a monitoring and evaluation system by March 31, 1979, and that the Project
Director would implement the system after Bank approval. The system would
be based on that proposed to Government by the mission (Annex 4, C4). CNCA
would independently monitor the Project's credit component using the system
established under the Bank's Third Agricultural Credit Project in Morocco.
Reports prepared by the monitoring and evaluation unit for Project management
would be submitted semi-annually to the Bank to satisfy the agricultural
reporting requirement.  In addition, assurances were obtained that the Project
Director provide to the Bank not later than June 30, 1986 a project completion
report satisfactory to the Bank assessing Project achievements and reasons for
any shortfalls. The Rural Engineering Directorate would keep separate records
of water sold versus water produced for the domestic water supply component.
In addition, the change in the composition of the animal population would be
monitored in five selected villages following the introduction of potable
water. For the road network within the Project area, the Roads Directorate
would collect data on the volume and types of traffic passing certain key
points at different seasons of the year to provide a sound data base for
ascertaining the need for network improvement or expansion.



- 21 -
D. Status of Engineering
3.22      For the roads component of the Project, preliminary engineering
studies were prepared for the Roads Directorate of the Ministry of Public
Works by the US Consultant, Louis Berger Inc. and by the Public Materials
Laboratory--Casablanca. These studies provide an adequate basis for estimat-
ing quantities of work to be performed. However, project contracts will be
based on final engineering of the road works. Assurances were obtained that
prior to the construction under the Project of each of the new roads listed
in Part B of Annex 3, page 2, the Government would provide the Bank with
evidence of their satisfactory economic justification, and the adequacy of
the design standards proposed (para 6.01). For the water supply components,
a preliminary engineering study was prepared by the Rural Engineering Direc-
torate of MARA. It is sufficiently detailed to provide a basis for quantity
estimates. Detailed engineering by consultants for the water supply compo-
nents is required for preparation of tender documents. Cost estimates for
buildings were based on current costs of standard designs. 1:50,000 maps
and 1:25,000 aerial photos of the Project area are available.
E. Cost Estimates
3.23      The total Project cost for the six-year implementation period
including establishment costs, taxes, duties and contingencies is estimated
at US$161.5 million of which US$65.0 million or 40% is foreign exchange.
Construction costs are based on quantity and unit price estimates from the
ministries of Agriculture, Public Works, Education and Public Health. Unit
prices are in line with recent bid prices for similar work. Costs include
duties and taxes equal to 18% for civil works, 26% for equipment, 15% for farm
inputs, and 15% for salaries. Total taxes and duties amount to US$35 million.
Physical contingencies of 10% on all items except salaries are included in the
cost estimate. For civil works, price contingencies were compounded, begin-
ning at January 1978 base year prices, at annual rates of 12% (1978-1979) and
10% (1980-1984). These price contingencies reflect recent trends in Morocco's
civil works industry, where inflation persists above the international level.
For equipment and salaries, price contingencies were compounded at annual
rates of 7.5% (1978-1979) and 7% (1980-1984). Because of the long imple-
mentation period, overall contingencies would amount to 64% of the base costs.
Cost estimates including establishment costs are summarized in the following
table and shown in detail in Annex 1:



- 22 -
Foreign
Component                          Local   Foreign   Total          Local  Foreign  Total           Exchange
-----(DH million)                ----(US$ million)----              Z
Agricultural Production
Services
Extension                         24.4       9.4      33.8         5.8      2.1       7.9           28
Training                           6.4       2.6       9.0         1.5      0.6       2.1           29
Wasteland Improvement             42.1       8.0      50.1         9.7      1.9      11.6            16
Hillside Farming                   6.7       2.6       9.3         1.6      0.6       2.2           29
Research and
Demonstration                     5.4       2.5       7.9         1.2      0.6       1.8           31
Livestock                          2.7       1.3       4.0         0.6      0.3       0.9            34
Monitoring and
Evaluation                        1.0       0.3       1.3         0.2      0.1       0.3           19
Total                           88.7      26.7    115.4         20.6      6.2      26.8           23
Incremental Farm Inputs
and Farm Investments
Incremental Farm Inputs           19.5      29.3      48.8         4.6      6.8      11.4           60
Incremental Farm
Investments                       1.7       2.6       4.3         0.4      0.6       1.0           60
Total                           21.2      31.9      53.1         5.0      7.4      12.4           60
Infrastructure
Credit Outlets                    11.7       1.0      12.7         2.8      0.2       3.0             8
Supply and Repair Centers          3.2       0.6       3.8         0.8      0.1       0.9           17
Roads                             70.1      72.0    142.1         16.3    16.7       33.0            51
Water Supply                      28.4      25.2      53.6         6.6      5.9      12.5            47
Education                         22.6       4.0      26.6         5.3      0.9       6.2           15
Health                             5.9       1.5       7.4         1.3      0.4       1.7            20
Total                          141.9    104.3    246.2          33.1    24.2       57.3           42
Feasibility Studies                  3.6       5.4       9.0         0.8      1.3       2.1            60
Physical Contingencies          22.9      16.1      39.0         5.4      3.7       9.1           42
Price Contingencies           136.7       95.1    231.8         31.6    22.2       53.8           42
GRAND TOTAL-/a                415.0    279.5    694.5           96.5    65.0    161.5             40
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 23 -
F. Financing
3.24      The proposed Bank loan of US$65 million would be to the Government
of the Kingdom of Morocco. The loan would finance 100% of the Project's
foreign exchange costs. The financing plan is as follows:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total         %
Government                     85.9         -        85.9       53.2
IBRD                             -        65.0       65.0      40.2
CNCA                            8.4         -         8.4        5.2
Farmers                         2.2         -         2.2        1.4
Total                     96.5      65.0      161.5      100.0
CNCA would provide US$8.4 million equivalent to finance local currency costs
of farm credit and credit outlets.  The Bank would finance foreign exchange
costs of credit and credit outlets (US$12.7 million).  Farm credit would cover
about 85% of incremental farm input and farm investment costs, the remainder
would be financed by farmers from current income and savings.  The Government
would finance the remainder of the Project's local currency costs. The Bank
loan would have a maturity of 24 years, including a six-year grace period,
at the standard Bank interest rate. The terms of the proposed loan are
justified on Project grounds. The loan conditions take into account the
long period before significant agricultural benefits are generated. Assur-
ances were obtained that the Government would on-lend to CNCA US$12.7 million
by May 31, 1979, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. This
amount, which is equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of the
credit and credit outlet components, should be made in sufficient time to
finance the 1979-1980 agricultural campaign. The Government would cover the
foreign exchange risk on the loan proceeds going to CNCA. Interest and
commitment charges on the Bank loan during the construction period, estimated
to equal US$12.1 million, would be paid by Government (para 6.01).
G. Disbursements
3.25      Disbursements would be made as follows:



- 24 -
Amount             Disbursement
Category                               (US$ million)           Percentage
1.   Construction of buildings
exclusive of local architect's
fees                                        5.5             30%
2.   Civil works for roads                       24.5            50%
3.   Civil works for water supply
including underground pipe
network and 22 kV powerlines                 4.5            41%
4.   Equipment and vehicles                       5.0            100% of foreign
cost, or 50% of
local cost
5.   Subloan made to CNCA                                        60% of disburse-
(Agricultural Credit)                      12.5            ments made by CNCA
6.   Hillside farming and
wasteland improvement                        4.0            25%
7.   Foreign consultants and                                     100% of foreign
overseas training                           4.0             costs, or 60% of
local cost
8.   Unallocated                                  5.0
Total Loan                               65.0
Disbursements against each category would be fully documented. The estimated
disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 2.
Retroactive Financing
3.26      Contracts awarded after December 1, 1977 would qualify for retro-
active financing. These would be engineering studies of the roads component
($50,000).
H. Accounts and Audits
3.27      The Government agencies responsible for project implementation main-
tain budgets and accounts which are audited by the Ministry of Finance. The
Ministry of Finance would be considered an acceptable independent auditor
under present circumstances. Assurances were obtained from Government that
each Government Department responsible for any part of the project maintain
separate accounts for the project work with which it is associat:ed, that these



- 25 -
accounts would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
that audited accounts along with audit reports be forwarded to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances were
also obtained during negotiations that the Ministry of Finance would (i)
examine expenditures for works under force account and (ii) give their opinion
on whether or not the funds have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided. CNCA would continue to have its accounts audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and to send the auditors' annual report to the
Bank within five months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances were
obtained that the Project Directorate in the Fes Provincial Services would
submit to the Bank a semi-annual summary of overall physical and financial
progress of the Project, including information on procurement.
I. Environmental Impact
3.28      The Project would improve the environment by providing infrastruc-
ture including treated water supply to community taps and schools, and
improved health facilities. The hillside farming and wasteland improvement
components will greatly improve the environment by reducing water runoff and
subsequent soil erosion. Water conservation should contribute to an increase
in fertilizer utilization by crops thus reducing fertilizer runoff in streams.
The Project's water and soil conservation measures should also improve the
output and longevity of the numerous springs in the area, reduce the siltation
of dams and canals downstream, and provide additional supplies of firewood for
the local population.
J. Procurement
3.29      The Project would be implemented by five Ministerial Departments and
Government agencies and by about 25,000 participating farmers. It would also
be phased over a six-year period resulting in the division of the procurement
into a large number of contracts of different sizes. Procurement for road con-
struction, road maintenance equipment, water supply construction and vehicles
and equipment for agricultural extension services and hillside farming would
be made on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) according to
the Bank guidelines. Most construction work in Morocco is performed by con-
tractors to whom contract awards are made after competitive bidding. Although
the works to be financed under the Project comprise a large number of small
contracts, these would be bulked so that international interest in the Proj-
ect might be stimulated. Contractors could bid for all or part of a "package"
of contracts up to their capacity to execute them. The contracts which would
be bulked on lots of sufficient size (more than US$100,000 each) would amount
to about US$63.4 million. ICB procurement would be announced in the UN's
"Development Forum" so as to alert prospective suppliers and contractors.



- 26 -
3.30      Procurement of civil works for housing, health and education facili-
ties, administrative and marketing buildings, involving a large number of
small contracts not exceeding US$100,000 each and amounting in total to
US$18.2 million equivalent would be handled through local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures already determined to be satisfactory to the Bank. These
items would not be suitable for ICB because of their phasing and their disper-
sion in the Project area. For contracts procured under LCB, the Ministry
involved will furnish the Bank, promptly after execution, two confirmed copies
of such contracts together with the analyses of the respective bids received
and recommendations for award.
3.31      Procurement by Government agencies of equipment and vehicles on
individual contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent and the purchase by
storeowners and farmers of agricultural chemicals and seeds would be made
through existing commercial channels and these include domestic and inter-
national suppliers who maintain generally adequate supplies and are suitably
compet itive.
3.32      Works related to hillside farming and wasteland improvement which
do not lend themselves to other modes of procurement, totalling about US$15.8
million, would be undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture under Force
Account arrangements.  These expenditures involve mostly hiring of local labor
and operating costs of vehicles and equipment which would be procured either
under ICB or under LCB procedures as described above.
3.33      Consultants' contracts for agriculture and engineering would cost
about US$6.4 million.
3.34      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government and
CNCA that they will enforce the preceding procurement procedures.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The Project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture.
The Director of the Ministry's Agriculture Development Department would chair
a Central Project Committee to assure adequate coordination between the par-
ticipating Ministries and Government agencies. The Ministry's Provincial
Service would manage the Project (see Chart 18652). A separate allocation
would be made for the Project in the Government's investment and operating
budgets. The Director of Agriculture in Fes would be the Project Director.
The monitoring and evaluation unit would be directly responsible to him (para
3.21). He would be responsible for project implementation and monitoring and
serve as the link between the Project and the Ministry in Rabat. He would be
a member of the Provincial Project Committee which represents Ministries and
Government agencies participating in project implementation (see Chart 18652).
The Committee would be chaired by the Governor of Fes who would intervene



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY (RABAT)                                                                  Central Projects Committee
(Director of Agricultural Development)
|  Cred it   l                           l                          | Public Works                       Education
I ~~~~~~~Provincial Project CommitteeII  
PROVINCE (FES)                                                                             (Governor)
Governmet                   Provincial Agricultural Director                                                      .
|    Enterprises    l             (Project Director)                       Agriculture                   Public Health
E1
Agricul-         Rural                                             Prjc             an    eAdminis-
Uîve-  tural                                                 ~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~Service  and  Cereals  Quality                           Statis-
stocktra                       Engineer-        Foressry         Research          -   -           Reita               fieCnrltrative                                    tc
stock      Develop-           ing                                              Prjc              eita              fieCnrlService                                     tc
mentMng
Trining        mattr          Coslat
COUNTY                                                              Fes                     Karia                     T ssa
|Work Center    | |Work Center                      Wor Cente
DISTRICT                                                         Extension                Extension                 Extension
Agents                  Agents                    Agents                                            World Bank-18652



- 28 -
where coordination is needed with other ministries' provincial services.  The
Provincial Director of Agriculture heads all agricultural services in the
Province. For implementation and supervision the Project Director would need
a Project Manager directly responsible to him. The Manager would be the chief
of the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project Service. He would be responsible
for the extension service; coordinate participating agencies, consultants, and
training activities; and prepare the quarterly progress reports to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained that a Project Manager would be appointed before
October 15, 1978. Most Project activities would emanate from the Agricultural
Centers located in each of the 18 districts. Staff responsible for extension,
hillside farming, wasteland improvement, range im.provement, veterinary and
livestock activities and those responsible for issuing authorizations and
collecting information would all live at and work out of the Centers. Excep-
tions would be the extension subject matter specialists and the Australian
medic and demonstration teams who would all live in Fes and work out of the
Douiet research station. A few staff would live at and work out of the
research station to be established within the Project area. The Provincial
Arrondissement of the Ministry of Public Works will be the executing agency
for the road construction and improvement works, and it will ensure that the
contract works are as adequately supervised as in previous highway projects.
The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health would be the respective
executing agencies for the education and health components of the Project.
B. Agricultural Support Services and Training
4.02      Extension Training.  The course to be given at Sahel Boutahar would
train annually about 30 future extension agents how to operate and manage a
farm. This additional year of practical work would supplement the classroom
courses students received during the basic two-year program during which they
learn about agricultural credit, farm cooperatives, and input requirements of
crops. Groups of three to four trainees would be assigned a plot of land to
work collectively. Each trainee would also prepare a demonstration on a
separate piece of land as an individual project. Trainees would be entirely
responsible for preparing their farm program, obtaining inputs, and carrying
out all operations on their assigned plots during one entire crop year. Part
of the plots would be farmed exclusively with animal traction. Inputs would
be available through a school cooperative. Three suitably-qualified Moroccan
trainers would receive overseas training (para 4.04); one would be sent for
training during each of the first three years of the project. The equivalent
of 36 man-months of technical assistance would be provided through recruitment
of one consultant. Most training classes would be held in the field, though
classroom sessions would also be given on relevant topics throughout the year.
Trainees would also be collectively responsible for part of the school's sheep
flock, dairy herd, and olive plantation. Training would include practical
farm shop courses in woodworking, simple farm construction, and farm mechanics.
Loans advanced to the trainees at the beginning of the course would be repaid
at harvest and each trainee would be permitted to keep his "net" profit after
payment to the school for equipment use and depreciation and rental of land.
Field trips would be arranged to broaden trainees' knowledge of production
technology. Field days with farmers' participation would be arranged where



- 29 -
trainees could explain and demonstrate their farming program. Excellence in
preparing and giving demonstrations would be encouraged. The staff would also
assist in the presentation of in-service training courses which will be orga-
nized by the Subject Matter Specialists for active extension agents in the
Project area. Assurances were obtained that implementation of the above
training program would begin by September 30, 1979.
4.03      Home Ecoromics.  A one-year course would be developed and offered to
about 20 girls at the Sahel Boutahar school. It would include practical as
well as classroom work in nutrition, including food preservation and prepara-
tion; sewing and making clothing; personal hygiene, health, common diseases
and their prevention; family planning and care of the mother during pregnancy;
infant and child care; purchase of household needs and the economics of manag-
ing a household. The girls would also receive an introduction to small animal
husbandry (poultry -nd rabbits).
4.04      Overseas Training.  Successful Project implementation would require
training in new skills and technology not now widely applied in Morocco.
Therefore overseas training would accent the acquisition of technical working
skills through experience, and would take place under the aegis of services in
cooperating countries which have ongoing programs dealing with similar problems
under similar ecological conditions. Moroccan trainees would carry out field
work alongside host country technicians during an entire crop cycle. The MARA
would, in consultation with the Bank, arrange for suitable candidates at the
level of agronomist or technical assistant to undertake such training and
would incorporate them in Project activities upon their return. Training is
scheduled to take place over several years so as not to disrupt Project
operations. However, a certain nucleus of basic staff would be trained as
early in the Project life as possible so as to be available for initiation of
field works in the second year. Training is scheduled as follows:
Persons per Year
------- Years -------
1   2   3   4   5   6   Total
Extension Training (Trainers)                 1   1   1   -   -   -        3
Australian Medic Production                   1   1   1   -   -   -        3
Hillside Farming                              5   5   5   -   -   -       15
Wasteland Improvement (Range Management)    2   2   2   -   -   -          6
Olive Production                              1   1   1                    3
Total                                        10  10  10                   30
Assurances were obtained during negotiations for the implementation of the
above training program.
4.05      Extension.  A staff of 87 career professionals would be responsible
for directly providing advisory services; this is equivalent to about one
extension agent per 400 farmers. Activities would emphasize establishing
profitable farm management programs with pilot farmers who would serve as an



- 30 -
example to others. Technical packages of practices extended would stress
appropriate use of fertilizer to increase crop profits, better soil prepara-
tion to help eliminate weeds and conserve soil moisture, use of certified seed
and adapted variet-ies, better sowing methods to improve germination and
stands, more effective weed control through proper use of herbicides and clean-
cultivated crops in rotation, use of forage crops to reduce soil compaction
and erosion and increase soil organic matter content, use of improved methods
to prevent harvest losses and appropriate feeding and veterinary care of live-
stock. Existing technology would suffice to increase yields substantially.
About 75% of extension time would be spent in direct contact with individual
farmers or small groups of farmers. Priority would be given to filling all
new positions within the Project area with graduates of the practical farm
management course at Sahel Boutahar. Agents would each be equipped with a
vehicle and would demonstrate and recommend practices to increase farm profit-
ability. Extension committees would be set up in each district. They would
establish priorities and assign responsibilities. Agents would plan and
implement their work program under the guidance of six full-time supervisors.
Additional office staff would assure adequate administrative support. An
audio-visual unit in Fes would prepare a weekly radio program and a weekly
farm news letter, and support actions by individual agents. Specialists in
cereal, pulse, fruit, olive, and livestock production would support the work
of the agents and constitute an active liaison with research. The promotion
of agents, participation in courses, and financial rewards for outstanding
performance would provide incentive and raise morale. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.06      Adaptive Research.  One Moroccan technician would be sent to
Australia for an eight-month practical production training course in medics
during the first year of the Project. Upon his return, he would be joined
by a consultant and they would constitute a team based at either the Douiet
research station near Fes, or at the new station to be established within
the Project area. This team would be equipped with a mobile land preparation
and seeding unit and would install on-farm research and demonstration trials
with farmers. Two additional Moroccan technicians would be trained overseas
in the second and third years of the Project and join the team upon their
return. The consultant would leave at the end of the fifth Project year.
One medic specialist would then be assigned to each of the three counties
within the Project area. In addition, the Project would establish a new 50
ha station. Station infrastructure would be limited to four houses, a field
laboratory, storage space for equipment and supplies, and twc small offices.
A collection of local olive cultivars with interesting genetic characteristics
would be established on the station. Three Moroccan trainees would each
receive eight months of overseas training in olive production. Experimenta-
tion would be limited to specific problems of the Project area such as hill-
side farming, olive and forage production. A production management study
would be closely associated with on-farm trials, though some trials would
be carried out on the station. The Project would finance salaries, equipment,
and operating expenses. This adaptive research program would represent a
minimum effort for the first stage of the Project; if successful, it could
be extended during a second stage.



- 31 -
4.07      Agricultural Administration Officer.  In order to free the extension
agents from administrative and policing functions, an Agricultural Administra-
tion Officer (AAO) would be attached to each extension office in the Project
area.  He would be-responsible for civil regulations concerning agriculture,
crop and economic surveys requested by central and provincial authorities, and
would handle requests from farmers for authorizations and certificates. In
legal actions against farmers, assistance would be asked from the AAO and not
from extension personnel. Assurances were obtained that one AAO would be
appointed in each extension office within the Project area before March 31,
1979.
4.08      Hillside Farming.  Three hillside farming teams would establish con-
servation farming programs with farmers on 6,500 ha of cultivated land during
the entire Project implementation period of six years. Farm layout and design
services would be provided free as would an initial demonstration involving
seeding of semi-permanent pasture strips, grassed waterways, and installation
of diversion ditches. Subsidies and credit available under the agricultural
investment code would encourage farmers to adopt these practices and to assume
the costs of extending them to the remainder of their land. The profitability
of such practices would be an additional incentive. The activities of the
teams would be closely coordinated with the teams of foresters responsible for
installing conservation practices on non-cultivated land in such a way that a
coordinated program would be carried out mainly within designated watersheds.
This should enhance the total conservation effect of individual actions.
4.09      Wasteland Improvement.  Three teams of foresters would implement a
program of conservation practices on about 18,000 ha of non-cultivated private
land. This would include land which hillside farming teams may recommend to
be taken out of cultivation. The forestry teams would be responsible for
organization of fruit tree planting, establishment of vegetative cover on
badlands, construction of forest access roads, afforestation, and all gully-
control works. Two additional foresters, suitably equipped, would be assigned
to work in each county on a range improvement program to be carried out by
Government in cooperation with private landholders. They would receive
overseas field training before being assigned to the Project area. Though
most of the wasteland improvement program would be carried out at Government
expense, the costs of fruit tree planting would be shared with participating
farms.
Credit
4.10      The implementation of the agricultural development program requires
that the credit availability is closely coordinated with the extension service
and the monitoring unit to be established under the Project Director. Under
the Project about 20,000 farmers who have limited or no access to credit
would receive sufficient credit to permit them to implement the technological
packages introduced by the extension service. Another 6,000 farmers would
increase their short-term borrowing substantially. The increase in the number
of CRCA clients (large and medium scale farmers) demanding short-term credit



- 32 -
each year, from about 1,470 in 1976/77 to 2,750 at full project development,
will not imply major institutional or logistical problems. The increase can
be handled within the overall development program of the CRCA.
4.11      To respond to the short-term requirements of the 23,600 potential
clients of the CLCAs who are small farmers, the Project provides for financing
and an increase in CLCA staff (para 3.15). There is a risk however, that
by providing more credit per farmer, and reaching a much larger proportion of
small farmers, the number of repayment defaults and administrative costs would
increase. This would increase CLCA's operating losses and make it more
dependent on Governnent subsidy, which in 1975/76 already covered about 39% of
CLCA expenses. In order to reduce this risk, while at the same time achieving
the objective of satisfactorily reaching more small farmers, the Project would
experiment with a change in CLCA procedures and criteria for providing credit
(para 4.12).
4.12      Presently, loan eligibility and amount for CLCA clients is based on
a farmer's "fiscal income". A short-term loan may not exceed 50% of the
farmer's "fiscal income". Morocco's tax authorities annually calculate the
"fiscal income" of each farmer by applying income norms to the number of
hectares, livestock and fruit trees held by farmers in various agricultural
zones in Morocco. The norms used in the calculation were established in 1963,
and no longer reflect farmers' real income nor farmers' short-term credit
needs under the Project. Under the Project, input packages for various farm
types have been developed which would be introduced to groups of farmers by
the extension agents. The estimation of input costs is a function of farm
size, cropping pattern and the appropriate technical package as determined by
the group of farmers assisted by the extension agent. Applications for credit
would be made by farmer groups, advised by extension agents, to the mobile
credit branches, or to one of the three fixed location CLCA branches. The
extension agent responsible would verify the appropriate technical package.
CLCA already possesses a list of farmers, farm size and location. The amount
of credit to be provided to the group is then defined by the cost of the tech-
nical package per hectare per crop, the cropping pattern, number of hectares
owned by the groups, and the percentage of costs which CLCA is willing to
finance (90% of costs for the first year, 80% in the second and third years,
and 70% thereafter). The technical packages may be altered each year by the
research and extension service, and costs would be updated by the monitoring
unit attached to the Project Manager's Office. CLCA would have the right to
exclude a farmer from a group loan if he is not judged creditworthy. In
principle, all farmers in the Project area would be eligible for grouped
credit if they join a group. Each group would be collectively responsible
for the repayment of the group's entire loan. If one member were not to
repay, no member of the group would be given credit until repayment is made.
Credit would be provided for specific items in the form of certificates that
will permit farmers to obtain the inputs in the stores to be established in
the Project's supply centers. Interest rates and loan conditions would be
identical to those presently in effect, which were judged adequate when the
Bank's third loan to CNCA was approved in 1977 (8.3% to 13% pro rata temporis
for CLCA short-term credit). The advantages of the proposed changes in CLCA
procedures are as follows:



- 33 -
(a) grouped credit applications and repayment responsibility
simplifies CLCA administrative procedures and reduces costs,
permitting access to more farmers at less cost per farmer;
(b) assessment of creditworthiness by CLCA on the basis of pro-
jected repayment capacity, rather than on a distorted esti-
mate of present income;
(c)  assessment of a farmer's credit needs on the basis of the
technical packages which underly the project, rather than on
the basis of a farmer's present income;
(d) minimization of the number of defaults by requiring collective
repayment responsibility, and by increasing the likelihood of
proper input use through extension.
Assurances were obtained that CNCA would provide in time the necessary credit,
and credit conditions as well as the personnel and operating budget required
for its part of the Project.
4.13      The major risk involved with the credit component is that of a
drought which would reduce crop yields, and hence farmers' income and repay-
ment capacity. Adverse climatic conditions occur about one year out of five.
The risk already exists to a more limited extent on present CLCA loans. In
drought years, overdues and defaults increase, requiring rescheduling of loan
repayments, which CLCA undertakes if appropriate. CLCA's record for repayment
is good, in part because obligations to the CNCA have the same legal status as
taxes. This system will continue to operate under the project. The impact of
the Project on administrative costs would be monitored since it is a variable
which would influence a decision to replicate the Project elsewhere. It is
expected that administrative costs per CLCA client would decline under the
Project (para 4.12). There is a risk that the grouping of farmers and collec-
tive responsibility of loan repayments will not work as well as is foreseen.
This would most likely happen if the quality of extension staff does not
improve or if extension agents fail to demonstrate to farmers the financial
benefits of participation. The Project attempts to minimize this risk by its
actions to strengthen the extension service.
C. Operation and Maintenance of the Roads and Water Supply Components
4.14      The Rural Engineering Service of the Provincial Directorate of the
Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for operation and maintenance of
all technical facilities, including buildings installed for the Project under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. This service is now in
charge of design, construction, operation and maintenance of rural water
supply facilities and collects water charges once a year from the Caid, who is
in charge of the districts. Each of the district's villages has a metered
public fountain, of which the individual faucets are spring loaded. The Caid



- 34 -
collects the charges for the individual families, allocating the amounts due
on the basis of the number of people and cattle per household. Non-compliance
is dealt with swiftly by cutting off the entire public fountain. This has
guaranteed immediate results in the past. Legally, the Rural Engineering
Service can only charge operation and maintenance costs, but in practice they
have increased the levels slightly to counter wastage. The present charge of
DH 0.60/m3 for Sebaa Rouadi and surrounding villages represents an equilibrium
charge at which villagers prefer treated piped water over free well water, but
consider it costly enough to avoid wastage and one village continues to prefer
using its well. The proposed water supply systems for M'Kansa and Ain Gdah-
Outa Bouabane are expensive to construct because of the low density of rural
population. In addition, topographical conditions necessitate considerable
pumping, so that pumping costs represent 75% of annual operating costs. Taking
into account the expected increase in population, annual operating costs would
amount to DH 0.74/m3 in 1983 dropping to DH 0.66/m3 (in 1977 dirhams) in the
year 2000. Assurances were obtained that (i) water would be sold at a price
at least covering operation and maintenance costs and that (ii) a study would
be made to determine the population's capacity to contribute to a partial
recovery of investment costs. Further assurances were obtained that the
Ministry of Agriculture's Rural Engineering Department would (i) train suffi-
cient staff for the operation and maintenance of the water treatment plants
and supply systems, (ii) assume the operation and maintenance of these systems
and (iii) keep separate records for each system of the volumes of water pro-
duced and sold.
4.15      Maintenance of the road system is the responsibility of the Provin-
cial Public Works Authority.  Government's reluctance to provide funds to
cover road maintenance is primarily responsible for the present deterioration
of Project area roads. Other causes include cheap construction, and the lack
of proper erosion control measures, combined with the absence of an impervious
coating of roads. Erosion has caused undercutting of the slopes on whose
flanks the roads were built. The wasteland improvement component of the
Project, under the responsibility of the Forestry Department, will address
slope treatment in small watersheds and thus alleviate the erosion problem.
A protective impervious coating will be applied to roads in the Project area
to stabilize the moisture content in the foundation in order to slow down
deterioration.
4.16      The highway department is reorganizing and restaffing the mainte-
nance organization throughout the country. For the past several. years both
budget, equipment and qualified manpower have been insufficient to maintain
the whole network. As a policy therefore the Directorate of Roads has chosen
to maintain the primary highway network, and to carry out only minimal or
no maintenance on the secondary and tertiary network. The project, therefore,
includes financing for the equipment for brigades required for the current
maintenance of the roads improved under the Project. This formula shows that
because of differences in maintenance costs over the years (15.5 years at a
discount rate of 10%) investment in bituminous pavement of 4 m width is more
economical than investment in gravel surface of the same width when the
expected traffic exceeds 60 vehicles per day. Justifications for bituminous
pavement could also be made under different circumstances such as road width,



- 35 -
terrain situation, etc. The roads component was treated as an indivisible
input in generating project benefits. Because the rate of return to the
project is high, the rate of return to the average road segment serving an
area generating average output will be equally high prior to construction.
4.17       The Project would provide for one complete pavement patching brigade
and one earthwork repair brigade to assist the provincial roads division in
carrying out maintenance work. The equipment for the two new brigades would
strengthen the existing stock of equipment. Maintenance of buildings and
vehicles is assured by each ministry. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations for adequate operation and maintenance and for the establishment
of two brigades not later than December 31, 1980.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.18       The Project would be implemented over a period of six years, from
November 1978 through December 1984. Although most construction works could be
completed in less time, the implementation period corresponds to the time in
which 80% of full agricultural development is expected to take place. Most
construction activities are not interrelated and bottlenecks to implementation
are more likely to occur in the establishment of organizational structures
(para 5.21). The implementation schedule is given in Chart 18826.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      Factors Stimulating Change in Production.  The Project would main-
tain the present biannual rotation of cereals and pulses. Projections of
yield increases and changes in cropping pattern are based on changes in crop
profitability which would occur with the introduction by the extension service
of the technical packages foreseen. The technical packages (Annex 4, C4)
are based on the use of modern inputs and farming techniques, which have been
specified separately for each crop and each farm type. The goal is to induce
farmers at various technical levels to introduce inputs and techniques for
higher crop yields and profits. The activity of the extension and research
service under the Project would be supported by greater access to credit
and modern farm inputs as well as greater access to markets resulting from
improved roads.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1979                                                1980                                                 1981                                                1982                                                1983                                                1984
Extension
vereasTraining                                                              _
Building Construction                                                                                ............                                                                                       ............................
Training                                                                                                                       .......................... ............................ ........................... ........................... .......................................................................
Field  Activities                                                                                                            ...........................   ......................... ........................... ..........................  ................. .............. ............................ .............
Hil9side Famting Overseas Training                                         --   -                                                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Hillside Farming Field  Activities                                                                                           ...........................  ..........................                                                     .. .......................... ...........................    ...........................
Wasteland Improvement and Range Development
Construction of Buildings                                                                        .......... .................. .......................... ......................... ..............
OversnesTraining                                                             -  -                                                                                                   ________
Field Works                                                               ........................... ............................ .......................... ........................... ...........................   .............. ........................... .................................... .............
Research
OverseasTraining                                                                                                         4
Field Works..............  .......................................... .......................... ............................. ...........................   ............................. ...........................
Ageicultumal Credit
CreitdrovsioP    .       .        .       .       .       .       .       .       .      .       .      .      .      .     .     .     .    . . ..................... ....................................... .................................................................................. ................................................
Livertock
Building Construction                                                                                                        ...........................
Roads
Design
Construction                                                                                                                   .........................................................................................................................................
Water Supply
Design
Construction                                                                                                                  .................................................................................   .......................................................
Education
Design
Constrcion                                                              ,...........................   .......................... ...........................   .......................... ,.........................................
Construction                                                                                                                                                                      ...........................                            .........................   .....................................................
March 1978
Design, Preparation of Bidding Documents, Planing and preparation                                                                                                                                                                                                                           World Bank -18826
.........   .....................                 Construction or Implementation
_______ - - - - - -                               Training



- 37 -
Land Use and Cropping Patterns
5.02      At full development the area planted under durum wheat would have
declined by 45% while the area under bread wheat would increase by 116%. This
shift is consistent with projected demand trends in Morocco and the relative
profitability of the two crops when modern farming techniques are used. A
modern farmer obtains bread wheat yields 36% higher than durum wheat yields (3
ton/ha and 2.2 ton/ha respectively) while a traditional farmer obtains com-
parable yields for both.
5.03      A similar shift in the area planted in broad beans (-47%) to chick
peas (+72%) is foreseen. The yield potential of broad beans is limited by the
difficulty of controlling orobanche, a parasitic plant. While broad beans are
more profitable for the traditional farmer, chick peas become more attractive
at improved farm management levels.
5.04      The area under vetch-oats would increase from about 7,200 ha to
about 23,000 ha. Presently, inadequate cultural practices (bad seeds, late
sowing and late harvesting) have resulted in low yields (1 ton/ha of hay for
traditional farmers), which, along with high labor requirements for harvesting
have made vetch-oats unpopular. The changes in agricultural practices and the
introduction of mechanized harvesting will remove these constraints. Vetch-
oats, if efficiently managed, is a profitable crop.
5.05      Productivity Increases.  The extension, demonstration  and input
supply components of the Project are designed to increase the productivity of
each farm type to that already attained by the most modern farmers. Tradi-
tional farming practices of many small and medium farmers would be improved
to the level of the most advanced traditional farmers. Farmers using mixed
traditional/modern techniques would be modernized. Farms already modernized
would be introduced to more recent innovations. While large farmers are
expected to increase yields only moderately, the farmers cultivating 10 to 20
ha would obtain substantial increases in crop yields. Except for vetch-oats,
the projected yields for each farm group correspond to yields already obtained
by the progressive farmers in the area. Projected yields in vetch-oats are
similar to those already achieved in areas of similar climate.
5.06      Crop Production Increases.  The estimates of incremental production
attributable to the Project are based on estimates of number of farmers in
each farm group and their projected crop yields. Total production of durum
wheat is expected to decline slightly (-8%) while total production of bread
wheat would increase from 55,000 tons to 188,000 tons by year 10. Total
barley production is expected to increase from 25,000 to 34,000 tons. Total
production of pulses (broad beans, chick peas, and lentils) would increase by
nearly 30% over the present situation. Production of chick peas is projected
to account for about 45% of the total production of pulses.  The production of
vetch-oats would increase from 20,500 tons at present to 138,000 tons at full
development.  The Project is situated in the most important olive region of
Morocco and an increase in production is predicted to result from olive tree
planting by the forestry service, and from better tree maintenance techniques
introduced by the extension service.  Olive production is expected to increase



- 38 -
from the present 32,000 tons to 58,000 tons in year 10 and to 68,000 tons once
the new trees are in full production (year 15). The without project situation
is projected to be a 2% p. a. growth in average crop production, which is
somewhat more rapid than the historical growth rate in the area.
5.07      Livestock Production.  The expected 400% increase in fodder produc-
tion would be a supplementary source of feed. Forage production, as proposed
in the Project, combined with more effective support services is expected to
induce an increased amount of sheep fattening. As a result, the Project fore-
sees production of mutton at full development reaching about 4,000 tons live-
weight, compared to present production of 1,500 tons. Also beef production
would increase from about 850 tons to 1,500 tons. Lack of water in most areas
has had a depressing influence on animal health and milk production. In addi-
tion a large number of draft animals are being used for no other purpose than
the daily transportation of drinking water.
B. Markets, Marketing and Prices for Project Output
5.08      Morocco's market for agricultural products is relatively free.  Most
domestic production is consumed either by the farm family or sold on local
markets. The present marketing system is efficient and capable of managing
the increased production foreseen in the Project area. The commodities pro-
duced under the Project would be readily marketed in Morocco, with the possible
exception of olives.
5.09      Cereals.  The supply of cereals in Morocco cannot satisfy demand,
requiring increasing cereal imports. Morocco's cereal trade balance has been
negative since 1969 and the deficit has been increasing every year. Urbaniza-
tion and a concurrent rise in income are stimulating a shift in consumption
away from durum wheat toward bread wheat. As a result, per capita require-
ments have increased from approximately 28 kg in 1959/60 to 87 kg in 1974/75.
Total bread wheat requirements are expected to rise from an average of 1.5
million tons in 1972-74 to 1.9 million tons in 1980 and 2.5 million tons in
1985. The Project's production of 133,000 tons at full development (1988)
will constitute 7.1% of the projected Moroccan import requirements in 1985
and 5.8% by 1990. While the use of barley for human consumption is declining,
its use for animal feed is increasing. Incremental barley production under
the Project would be used as animal feed. Most domestic production of cereals
is consumed by farm producers or sold on local markets at free market prices.
A public enterprise, the "Office National Interprofessionel des Cereales et
Legumineuses" (ONICL) buys cereals at support prices and resells to retailers
in order to regulate supply and reduce price fluctuations. Since support
prices are generally lower than those on the free market, and since ONICL
controls only about 10% of national cereal production, support prices have had
little effect on production. ONICL's impact on production occurs through its
monopoly on cereal imports. Until the recent fall in international grain
prices, ONICL resold imported grains at a price lower than the import price,
the difference financed by Government. The policy intent was to keep consumer
prices low. This policy served to lower prices received by domestic producers,



- 39 -
reducing the incentive to produce cereals. Presently, however, prices received
by farmers are above world market prices. ONICL has 20 registered wholesalers
and 115 retailers working in the Project area. Wholesalers have about 80,000
tons of grain storage capacity. A second public enterprise, SCAM, which also
buys and sells cereals has a local storage capacity of 100,000 tons in Fes.
The total storage capacity is sufficient to handle the increased cereal pro-
duction. Most durum wheat is milled in artisanal mills and used for home
consumption. Nearly all bread wheat is milled in regulated industrial mills.
Fes has 14 industrial mills with a total capacity of 244,800 tons. The capac-
ity has been utilized at 46% during the last three years (1974/75-1976/77) and
thus would be able to process the Project's additional bread wheat production.
5.10      Pulses.  Dry pulses are an important part of the Moroccan diet,
amounting to about 12 to 15% of per capita food consumption, though per capita
consumption has declined from 6.6 kg (1960/64) to 5.6 kg in 1970/74. The
pattern of human consumption of pulses has changed considerably. While in
1960/64 broad beans constituted 40.8% of total consumption of pulses compared
to 29.2% for chick peas, in 1970/74 broad beans and chick peas have become
equally important (34%) in total consumption of pulses. The Project foresees
a continuation of this trend. However, the decline of broad beans in human
consumption will be offset by an increase in their use for livestock fatten-
ing. The livestock component of the Project assumes that about 50% of the
total bean production will be used as livestock feed. A substantial part
(37%) of Moroccan production of pulses îs exported, prÎmarily to EEC coun-
tries. Though exports have been declining during the last few years, the
increasing potential for dry broad beans and chick peas as a filler in manu-
factured foods is a possible future market for Moroccan exports. Exports of
lentils, mostly to France where they are regarded as the equivalent of vege-
tables, have been stable and no marketing difficulties are foreseen. ONICL
buys and sells pulses, though handling a small quantity. Most production has
been and would continue to be efficiently traded on local markets.
5.11      Fodder.  The increased production of barley and vetch-oats would be
used by livestock producers as animal feed in the proposed livestock component.
Existing traders would continue to assure the exchange of surplus quantities.
Prices for fodder (vetch-oats and straw) are currently about 50% higher than
the prices used in the financial and economic analysis. The present prices
are considered to be temporarily high, and the lower prices used in the
analysis should correspond more closely to the long-term situation.
5.12      Meat.  Morocco has been nearly self-sufficient in meat.  The demand
for meat has been increasing rapidly and annual per capita meat consumption
has increased from 12 kg in 1959/60 to about 18 kg in 1970/71. Total mutton
consumption has increased from a yearly average of 38,000 tons in 1960/64 to
51,000 tons in 1970/74. In the future, rising incomes and a larger urban
population will probably result in higher meat consumption. Meat consumption
is projected to increase from the 277,000 tons in 1975 to 450,000 tons in
1985. The Project's projected production increase of 873 tons carcass weight
will constitute only 0.5% of the projected increase in meat consumption.
Farmers sell livestock on the local market to traders or to representatives of



- 40 -
slaughterhouses. Farmers receive an adequate share of the final market value
of the meat and the existing marketing system would absorb the increased
supply without any difficulties. Meat prices have been increasing steadily
and the Bank projects significant inflation of meat prices relative to general
inflation on world markets.
5.13      Olives.  The Province of Fes with its 72,000 ha of olive trees is
the largest producer of olives in Morocco and 26% (18,420 ha) of the Province's
trees are estimated to be in the Project area. The Project will increase the
number of hectares planted by about 8,000 ha mostly in hilly areas and on
badlands as an anti-erosion measure. The average yearly olive production in
Morocco is estimated at about 250,000 tons (average 1965/75). About 75% of
olive production is processed to oil, about 5% is consumed by farm families,
10% is used for canning and the remainder is discarded as waste. In the early
70's the greater part of the olive production was exported, mostly to EEC
countries. Recent customs restrictions of the EEC have caused a dramatic
decline in Morocco's exports. There is little hope that Morocco's olive
export outlook will change in the near future. Olive oil consumption is
declining in EEC countries and the possible association of Southern European
countries will make the EEC a net exporter of olive oil. In addition, Bank
projections for world olive oil prices indicate a decline relative to general
price inflation. Morocco, therefore, will have to rely on internal demand to
absorb its olive production. There has been an important decline in the
domestic consumption of olive oil, from 21,600 tons in 1970 to 8,000 tons in
1975. Vegetable oil imports have increased from 60,000 tons in 1970 to
160,000 tons in 1975. Estimated per capita consumption of olive oil declined
from 5.8 kg in 1959/60 to 5.0 kg in 1970/71, while per capita consumption of
vegetable oils increased from 2.6 kg to 5.3 kg.  This shift in the consumption
pattern is due to the price difference between relatively cheap imported vege-
table oil and the more expensive domestically produced olive oiL. Government
subsidies on imported vegetable oil permit it to be sold at DH :3/1 while
olive oil is sold at DH 4.5/1. The Government is reconsidering its domestic
edible oil policy in view of the loss of export markets. Substitution of
olive oil for imported vegetable oils would be both logical and economical and
would permit absorption of the Project's olive production. However, the farm-
gate price for fresh olives would have to be maintained at around DH 600/ton
for production to be profitable. The total olive production in the Project
area in year 15 (68,000 tons) would produce about 9,180 tons of olive oil,
equal to 3% of the estimated domestic demand of vegetable oil. Part of the
olive production in the Project area is presently extracted in about 5,000
artisanal mills and consumed by farm families. The remainder is sold in the
local market to retailers and extracted industrially. There are 84 processors
in Fes with a total processing capacity of 2,000 ton/day. The presently
underutilized plant capacity would permit absorption of the increased project
production without any major investments.



- 41 -
C. Marketing and Prices for Agricultural Inputs
5.14      Seed.  High yielding "certified" wheat seed would be obtained by
the stores in the Project area's supply centers from the single distributor
in the country (SONACOS). The price of certified seeds for durum and bread
wheat is fixed by Governnent. Certified seeds for broad beans, chick peas,
lentils and barley are not available and local seeds are used. Vetch-oats,
sunflower and sugar beet seeds are imported. Sugar beet seed is distributed
by the sugar factory when it contracts with farmers for production. Other
seed would be provided through the Project's stores.
5.15      Fertilizer.  Fertilizers (except for phosphate) are imported and
processed by a public enterprise, Fertima. Phosphate based fertilizers are
processed and distributed by a Moroccan firm (Societe Cherifienne des Engrais).
There is a difference between border and farmgate prices caused by indirect
taxes equal to 30% of the c.i.f. price for imported fertilizers.  Fertilizers
would be sold in the Project's agricultural centers.
5.16      Pesticides.  Pesticides in the Project area would be sold by private
merchants in the Project's farm supply stores. Pesticides are imported by
several private distributors. Indirect taxes on imported pesticides amount to
about 10% which results in farmgate prices about 8% higher than border prices.
5.17      Machine Services.  At present some machine services are provided
by extension centers, but most are provided by the private sector. The prices
charged by the private sector are competitive and are assumed to reflect the
real cost of those services to the private contractor. The cost of purchasing
farm machinery includes indirect taxes ranging from 50 to 60% of c.i.f. prices
depending on the machine. Offsetting this has been a 30 to 50% subsidy to
private farmers who form associations to purchase machinery.
5.18      Subsidies.  Subsidies for both production and consumption of agri-
cultural products are used in Morocco. While consumption subsidies have been
applied universally and cause a shift of income from the producer to the
consumer, production subsidies are used to encourage production of certain
commodities.
(a) To encourage olive production, the Ministry of Agricul-
ture contracts with farmers to spray olive trees free of
charge, if the farmer executes a minimum of maintenance
(pruning, fertilizing).
(b) The Government provides a subsidy in cash or in kind on all
investments in land improvement (destoning, clearing), vary-
ing from 20 to 40% for individuals and from 30 to 60% for
farm groups.
(c) The Government provides subsidies for the acquisition
of farm equipment ranging from 30 to 50%. These subsidies
are the major reason for the creation of farmers' groups.



- 42 -
(d)  Any farmer owning more than 40 ha of land can enter into
an agreement with Governnent (contrat d'assolement) in
which the farmer agrees to follow a biannual rotation in
exchange for a 20% subsidy on fertilizers (30% for farmers'
groups).
(e) Farmers with holdings less than 10 ha may obtain a 25%
subsidy on fertilizers and certified seeds.
Governnent is aware that this complex and costly system of providing subsidies
for some inputs has not induced the expected increases in production. Govern-
ment is reviewing the subsidies within the framework of the forthcoming Devel-
opment Plan to determine their costs and benefits. The Bank's agricultural
sector work has dealt with agricultural subsidies, and has permitted the Bank
to have a dialogue with Government on the subject.  The Bank will continue to
discuss the subsidy issue with Goverinment as part of the dialogue in Project
preparation, and in country economic and sector work.
D. Economic Analysis and Project Risks
5.19      The Project would assist Morocco to meet its national objectives
(listed in para. 1.03) by:
(a) improving its balance of trade by saving foreign exchange
of an amount (US$23 million per annum) equal to 4% of pro-
jected food imports in 1985;
(b) accelerating economic growth given the Project's expected
economic rate of return of 21%;
(c) raising the income and consumption levels of about 3:3,900
farm families to a more satisfactory level; and
(d) introducing, on an experimental basis, new approaches to
extension, credit, wasteland improvement, and training
which if successful could be introduced elsewhere in
Morocco.
5.20      The economic rate of return reflects the value of net incremental
production with the Project compared to the projected growth of production
without the Project, minus the Project investment and operating cost of exten-
sion, training, research, input supply centers, credit infrastructure, roads,
livestock services, wasteland improvement, and hillside farming. Excluded
from the calculation are the costs of the health, education, and water supply
components. If these latter costs are included, the expected rate of return
falls to 13%. Benefits and costs are computed in border prices, net of subsi-
dies and taxes. The opportunity cost of labor is measured as a laborer's
likely production in the absence of the Project. This value is estimated to
be the wage which would satisfy the subsistence needs of the laborer. There-
fore, in the economic analysis, the opportunity cost of the increment in labor



- 43 -
required by the Project is valued at the value of subsistence production,
equal to DH 5 per day. An alternative calculation, based on the percentage of
labor employed per month and on the average daily wage, yields an opportunity
cost of DH 3 per day. The development period would be 10 years for crops, 15
years for olive production. The Project design was selected after analysis of
several variants, as the optimal strategy for developing the potential of the
cereal growing areas of Morocco in general, and the Project area in particular.
An economic analysis for each Project component would be misleading since the
productive components complement one another in generating production benefits.
Increased input supply, for example, would be rendered more difficult and costly
in the absence of improved roads, and the roads would be of little economic
benefit without increased input supply. In order to ensure that roads are not
overdesigned, minimum engineering standards are to be applied. In addition,
prior to construction of the higher cost road segments (costing more than
US$80,000 per km), including about one-third of the road network, an economic
justification would be provided according to a formula specified by the Bank.
The wasteland improvement component is justified as an indivisible part of the
Project. The component is designed to stop the erosion of farm land, provide
employment opportunities, and increase the production of wood and olives. The
wasteland improvement component was limited in size during project appraisal
because of the possibility that its economic return would be low. The rate
of return to this component alone, but including only benefits directly
attributable to the component, is estimated at 6%. The hillside farming
component has an estimated rate of return of 38%. The wasteland improvement
component would be monitored closely and benefits measured in order to
ascertain economic viability for use in design of future projects.
5.21      The risks inherent in agricultural projects discussed by the OED
have been considered in the design of this Project.  The major risk is that
of severe adverse climatic conditions, which occur about one year in every
five. In the farm budget and economic analyses this is accounted for by
assuming that poor climatic conditions reduce incremental Project production
to zero in one of every five years beginning in Project year three (1981).
Despite this assumption, the expected rate of return to the country, and
financial rates of return to farmers (above 50%), are high and therefore the
risk is acceptable from this perspective.  Higher financial than economic
rates of return reflect the fact that nearly all Project investments are
subsidized by Government, the only costs met by farmers being those of inputs
and credit. The financial analysis uses unsubsidized prices for fertilizer,
seeds and plant protection; and expected actual costs for labor, investment,
machine services and draft animals. However, poor climatic conditions,
especially in the early years of the Project, would hurt small farmers'
ability to repay short-term credit. Defaults would weaken the credit insti-
tution (CNCA). This risk is minimized by CNCA's willingness to reschedule
loan repayments to meet justifiable hardship of farmers, coupled with the
Government's policy of covering CNCA losses. Losses, and hence Government
outlays to CNCA, would increase slightly in drought years and decline in good
years. A second risk results from the increasing tightness of Morocco's



- 44 -
public finance situation, and the declining proportion of Government expendi-
tures going to agriculture. This could result in a future reduction in funds
for Project operation. An assurance was therefore obtained that the funds
needed for efficient operation and maintenance be provided by Government.
Despite the fact that the Project was designed to increase the access of
small farmers to Government services, farmers' aversion to risk may inhibit
acceptance of the Project's input packages, hence reducing benefits. This
was accounted for in the Project analysis by assuming that 7,500 small farmers
(20% of farm population) would not accept the improved farm inputs and prac-
tices. If 50% of the Project area farmers refused to implement the Project's
technical package, the rate of return would fall to 6%. A fourth Project
risk which is suggested by experience with previous agricultural projects in
Morocco is that of delay of Project implementation. Such delays are caused
by administrative inertia and difficulties in coordinating components which
are the responsibility of different ministries. To minimize this risk, the
mechanism for Project management and coordination was carefully established
during the preparation of the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project. A
one-year delay in the flow of Project benefits would reduce the rate of
return to 14%. The remaining risks involve uncontrollable factors, the impact
of some of which on the economic rate of return is shown below:
Economic
Rate of Return
1.   Expected                                                 21
2.   50% participation by farmers rather                       6
than the 80% expected
3.   Project costs 15% higher                                 16
4.   One-year delay in Project benefits                       14
5.   Prices of crops and meat, 10% lower                      13
6.   Crop yields 10% lower                                    13
5.22      To obtain a more accurate assessment of the impact of Project risks
on the rate of return, a risk analysis was undertaken. Subjective probabili-
ties based on engineering, agronomic, and economic judgements were attached
to the range of possible Project costs, yields, prices, speed of development,
start-up delays, etc. The result is a probability distribution of rates of
return which captures the effect of quantified risks. The result indicates a
90% probability that the rate of return would fall between 10 and 30%. This
assumes however that project components are undertaken as specified in this
appraisal report, but accounts for the risks of cost overruns, delay, drought,
farmer reluctance to participate, relative price changes, inaccurate yield
projections, etc.
5.23      The rate of return does not reflect the social return to the health,
education, and water supply components, nor the benefits which would be
obtained by replication of the successful Project components e]sewhere in
Morocco. As indicated in Chapter I, the Project would experiment with solu-
tions to several of the issues in Moroccan Agriculture including the lack of
budgetary allocations to rainfed agriculture, the problems with agricultural



- 45 -
extension, inadequate input and credit availability to small farmers, and
insufficient productive and social infrastructure in rural areas outside of
irrigated perimeters.
E. Beneficiaries
5.24      The Project would benefit 33,900 farm families, or 2% of the total
1,750,000 farm families living in Morocco.  About 7,550 farm families in the
Project area out of the total of 33,900 are not expected to accept the improved
farm practices introduced under the Project, but would benefit from employment
creation and from the Project's social components. Distribution of the direct
Project production benefits between farm income groups would be as follows:
Family Income in
Percent      Incremental Project   Present            Year 8
Farm Size   of Project   Production Benefits   Family         Without      With
(ha)      Population    Accruing to Group    Income    Project /c  Project
Z  %                        US$      
0-2 /b          22                 0              525 /a       525 /a      525 /a
2-5             34                21              525 7â       525 T       700 /a
5-10            23                26              525 /a       525 /a   1,095
10-20            13                39              860          930       2,440
20-40             6                 8            4,125        5,230       6,550
>40             2                 6           13,440       18,390      19,685
Total           100               100              -            -            -
Absolute poverty level (December 1977) per family = US$1,330
Average GDP per family (December 1977)                = US$3,320
/a Farm income plus off-farm income in December 1977 prices.
/b Not expected to accept Project's improved farm practices.
_c Growth rates without Project are:
Farm (ha)                       Growth % p.a.
0 - 10                              0
10 - 20                              1
20 - 40                              2
> 40                              4
Weighted Average                      2
Eighty-five percent of the direct production benefits would accrue to members
of the farm population presently living at or below the absolute poverty



- 46 -
income level who are estimated to be about 90% of the population of the Proj-
ect area. Project benefits are more equitably distributed than is agricul-
tural income in Morocco. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project components
were designed to have maximum impact on small farmers. The extension, credit,
and livestock components are directed to improving farm practices and input
use of small farmers. The above table indicates that, as with most agricul-
tural projects, large farmers would profit greatly from the technical packages
because they have more land, and because they are able to introduce new tech-
niques more rapidy than do small farmers, despite project efforts. Large
farms are profitable when modern inputs and farming practices are used.
Farms less than 5 ha cannot be made viable without irrigation, although the
situation of 2-5 ha farms can be marginally improved with considerable effort,
as under the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project. The above table indicates
that the approximately 20% non-participation in improved agricultural prac-
tices, typical for rural development projects, is likely to occur among the
smallest farmers. These farmers presently subsist primarily as salaried
labor, and would continue to do so under the Project. Farms in the 5 to 20
ha range which would make greatest use of the Project's productive components
would double their incomes when Project inputs are introduced although this
pushes only the larger farms in this group above the relative poverty income
level. A more massive and costly intervention by Governnent could increase
incomes still further but the marginal benefits per dirham invested would be
low. The more economic proposition would be to replicate the Project in other
areas of Morocco, which is Government's intention. The distribution of pro-
duction benefits under the Project would be made more equitable if Morocco's
agricultural tax system permitted the taxation of part of the incremental
income from the Project.  Taxes are computed as a percentage of "fiscal income"
which is calculated on the basis of norms applied to number of hectares,
livestock and fruit trees owned. The norms were established in 1963 and have
not been changed since then, in order to maintain a low tax burden on the farm
sector. This offsets somewhat the changing terms of trade between agriculture
and remainder of the economy which have turned increasingly against agricul-
ture.  However, since taxes are not levied on the basis of actual income, the
Government recuperates almost none of the net production benefits of agricul-
tural projects. A reform of the agricultural tax system in which taxes are
based on actual income would correct this but would probably not be adminis-
tratively feasible. Study of this issue in Bank country economic work is
being undertaken.
5.25      Indirect income and consumption benefits generated by increased
employment opportunities would accrue primarily to landless labor and to
farmers having 0-2 ha. Employment opportunities would be created not only by
the increased farming activity but by construction of roads, water supply,
education, and health components, tree planting, and civil works under the
wasteland improvement program. About 500 man-years of additional employment
for the Project area's population will be created by the hillside farming
and wasteland improvement activities alone. For the short term, this activity
should boost family income of the 0-2 ha group to the level of family income
received by farm families owning 2-5 ha. However, once Project works are con-
structed, incomes of the smallest farm families will fall and unless addi-
tional rural non-farm employment opportunities are generated, these people



- 47 -
will inevitably leave the land. A second phase project in the Karia-Tissa is
being considered which would include construction of irrigation and water
supply systems, along with small scale industries and rural self help. If
undertaken, this would sustain the higher level of employment opportunities
after the present project is completed.
5.26      The social/economic benefits of the education, health, water supply,
and roads components are expected to be distributed evenly over the entire
Project area population. The two pilot water supply systems would provide
treated water to about 176 villages with about 46,000 inhabitants and 82,000
animals. The quality of water from existing sources is poor, and its quan-
tity inadequate. The average housewife spends four hours per day to collect
the inadequate volume of 60 liters for her family. There is no alternative
supply of water to match expected growth in demand. The four health centers
and 68 classrooms to be constructed or rehabilitated are least cost improve-
ments which are comparable to the expansion of such facilities in other areas
of Morocco.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreements reached during negotiations included:
(a) inputs would be supplied as described in para 3.04;
(b) hillside farming, wasteland improvement, and range
development would be implemented under the existing
legislation and farmers would be encouraged to sign
contracts with the Government for the necessary works
(para 3.10);
(c) consultants for agricultural components would be
employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
and engineers/architects for design construction and
supervision of works by January 31, 1979 (para 3.11);
(d) total loan amount to a CLCA subborrower would be limited
so that his total debt service would not exceed 50% of
his potential income (para 3.13);
(e)  a monitoring and evaluation unit would be established
as soon as possible after the system has been proposed
on or before March 31, 1979, and monitoring reports and
a Project completion report acceptable to the Bank would
be prepared and sent to the Bank (para 3.21);
(f) US$12.7 million of the Bank loan to Government would be
on-lent to CNCA on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk as in previous loans to CNCA (para 3.24);



- 48 -
(g)  accounts and audits would be maintained and sent to the
Bank (para 3.27);
(h)  procurement would be implemented as outlined in paras 3.29
to 3.34;
(i)  the Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project Manager would be
appointed on or before October 15, 1978 (para 4.01);
(j)  the proposed training program, including overseas training,
would be implemented beginning no later than September 30,
1979 (paras 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04);
(k)  incentives for extension personnel would include promotion,
participation in courses, and financial rewards (para 4.05);
(1)  one Agricultural Administration Officer would be appointed
in each Agricultural Center before March 31, 1979 (para
4.07);
(m)  CNCA would provide credit and credit conditions as well as
personnel and operating budget required for the Project
(para 4.12);
(n)  water tariffs would be established and maintenance personnel
trained as described in para 4.14;
(o)  two road maintenance brigades would be established not later
than December 31, 1980. Adequate operation and maintenance
of the roads component would be assured by Government; for
specified roads costing more than $80,000 per km in 1978
prices, an economic justification would be provided prior to
construction according to a formula agreed by the Bank (paras
4.16 and 4.17); and
(p)  funds necessary for efficient operation and maintenance of
the Project would be provided for the life of the Project
(para 5.21).
6.02      The Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$65
million for a 24-year term with a six-year grace period. The Borrower would
be the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco.
June 12, 1978



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
KINGDON OF MOROCCO                                      Page 1 of 4
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTUHIR PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Year                             Total      Foreign
Eschange
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
COMPONENT                                 ------{DH million) --------------7-
ACRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SERVICES
Extension
Inves t.ent
Vehicles and Equipisent        2.02     1.73    1.27    1.52        .66     .67       7.87        58
Housing                        3.00    3.00    2.40         -       -        -        8.40        15
Offices                         .28      .28       -        -       -        -         .56         15
Subtotal                    5.30    3.01      3.67    1.52       .66      .67      16.83        35
Establishmsnt Costs
Salaries                       1.12    1.69    1.97    2.25    2.25    2.25          11.53         0
Operating Coors                 .49      .74      .91    1.09    1.09    1.09         5.41        60
Subtotal                    1.61    2.43    2.88    3.34    3.34    3.34           16.94        21
Total Without Contingencies   6.91    7.44    6.55    4.86    4.00    4.01             33.77        28
Physical Contingencies            .58      .58      .46      .26      .18     .18       2.24        28
Price Contingencies              1.15    2.03    2.41    1.89    1.96    2.39          11.83         28
Total                            8.64   10.05    9.42    7.01    6.14    6.58          47.84         28
Training
Iovestesent
Vehicles and Equipoient        1.89      .24     .05      .04      .04      .04       2.30        58
Buildings                      1.34      .41     .10       -        -        -        1.85        15
Consultants                     .11      .42      .42      .11     .11      .11       1.28        60
Oveeseas Training               .05      .06      .06       -       _        -         .17        60
Subtotal                    3.39    1.13       .63      .15      .15      .15       5.60        44
Establishment Costs
Salaries                        .10      .60      .60     .60      .60      .60       3.10         0
Vehicle operation and Other  .05         .04      .05     .05      .05      .05        .29        60
Subtotal                      .15     .64      .65      .65      .65      .65       3.39         6
Total Without Contingencies   3.54    1.77         1.28     .80       .80     .80       8.99         29
Physical Contingencies            .34      .12      .07      .02      .02     .02         .59        29
Price Contingencies               .57      .43      .40      .30      .38     .48       2.56         29
Total                            4.45    2.32    1.75    1.12    1.20    1.30          12.14         29
Wasteland Improvement
lnves tisent
Vehicles and Equipsent          .12    1.03       .07     .09      .04      .02       1.37        58
Buildings                      1.56      .51     .24        _       -        -        2.31        15
Range Improvement               .57    1.05    1.23       .86      .73      .73       5.17        15
Pield Works                    7.40    5.05    6.35      6.39    6.15    6.35        37.69        15
Subtotal                    9.65    7.64    7.89    7.34    6.92    7.10           46.54        16
Establishment Costs
Salaries                        .27      .42      .49     .49      .49      .49       2.65         0
Vehicle operation and
Miscellaneous                   .04      .15      .17      .17     .17      .17         .87        60
Subtotal                      .31      .57     .66      .66      .66      .66       3.52        15
Total Without Contingencies   9.96    8.21    8.55    8.00    7.58    7.76             50.06         16
Physical Contingencies            .97      .78      .81      .75     .71      .73       4.75         16
Price Contingencies              2.02    2.53    3.85    4.79    5.79    7.36          26.34         16
Total                           12.95   11.52   13.21   13.54   14.08   15.85          81.15         16
Hillside Faming
Investisent
Vehicles and Equipment          .02      .48      .10      .02     .05      .10         .77        58
Buildings                      1.49      .60       -        -       -        -        2.09        15
Field works                      -       .17      .29     .41      .46      .40       1.73         15
Consultants                     .14      .43      .43      .43     .07      .07       1.57         60
Overseas Training               .28      .28      .28       -        -       -          84         60
Subtotal                    1.93    1.96    1.10        .86      .58      .57       7.00        35
Establishraent Costs
Salaries                        .16      .31      .36      .36     .36      .36       1.91          0
Vehicle Operation                -       .06      .09      .09     .09      .09         .42        60
Subtotal                      .16      .37     .45      .45      .45      .45       2.33        il
Total Without Contingencies   2.09    2.33    1.55    1.31    1.03    1.02              9.33         29
Physical Contingencies            .19      .20      .12      .10      .07      .07        .75        29
Price Contingencie                .39      .61      .52      .62      .66      .78       3.58        29
Total                            2.67     3.14    2.19    2.03    1.76    1.87         13.66         29



- 50 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
PES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Year                              Total       Foreign
Exchange
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
COMPONENT                            ----------------(DH million) ----------------
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SERVICES (continued)
Research and Demonatration
Investment
Buildings                        -        .       -       .77       -        -         .77          15
Vehicles and Equipment          .22      .02     .02      .61      .02       -         .89          58
Consultants                      -       .43     .43      .43      .43       -        1.72          60
Overseas Training               .06      .06     .06       -        -        -         .18          60
Subtotal                      .28     .51      .51    1.81       .45       -        3.56          50
Establisbment Costs
Salaries                        .03      .07      .10     .10    1.45    1.45         3.20            0
Vehicle and Miscellaneous
Operation                       .01      .04     .05      .05      .50      .50       1.15           60
Subtotal                      .04     .11      .15      .15     1.95    1.95        4.35            6
Total Without Contingencies    .32         .62      .66    1.96    2.40    1.95         7.91           31
Physical Contingencies            .03      .05      .06      .19      .10     .05         .48          31
Price Contingencies               .04      .13      .20      .98    1.17    1.14        3.66           31
Total                             .39      .80      .92    3.13    3.67    3.14        12.05           31
Lives tock
Investment
Veterinary Stations             .11      .21       -       -        -        -         .32          15
Housing                         .15      .15       -       -        -        -         .30          15
Livestock Dips                  .12      .18      .18      -        -        -         .48          15
Vehicles                        .22       -        -       -        -        -         .22          58
Subtotal                      .60     .54      .18       -                 -        1.32          22
Establishment Costs
operation and Maintenance    .04         .04      .04     .04      .04      .04        .24          60
Salaries                        .10     .18      .18      .18      .18      .18       1.00           0
Veterinary Products              -       .30      .30      .30     .40      .20       1.50           60
Subtotal                      .14     .52      .52      ,52      .62      .42       2.74          38
Total Without Contingencies    .74    1.06          .70      .52     .62      .42       4.06           34
Physical Contingencies            .07      .10      .07     .05      .06      .04        .39          34
Price Contingencies               .11      .30      .24      .21     .31      .25       1.42           34
Total                             .92    1.46    1.01        .78     .99      .71       5.87          34
Monitoring and Evaluation
Establishment Costs
Consultants Services            .22      .22       -       -        -        -         .44          60
Local Salaries                  .08      .16      .16     .16      .16      .16        .88           0
Total Without Contingencies    .30         .38      .16     .16      .16      .16       1.32          19
Physical Contingencies            .02      .02       -        -       -        -         .04          19
Price Contingencies               .04      .08      .04      .06     .08      .09        .39          19
Total                             .36      .48      .20     .22      .24      .25       1.75          19
INCRElMETAL FARM INPUTS AND FARM INVESTMENTS
Incremental Farm  Inputa   /a       8.23   11.26   15,90    8.53    4.92           -      48,84           60
Incremental Farm Invvestments         -       .70    1,32       .78      .78      .72       4.30          60
Total Without Contingencies   8.23   11.96    17.22    9.31    5.70           .72      53.14          60
Physical Contingencies            .82    1.20      1.77     .93      .57      .07       5.36          60
Price Contingencies              1.84    4.86    10.40    7.76    6.21        .99      32.06          60
Total                           10.89   18.02   29.39   18.00   12.&8    1.78          90,56          60
aE Short Term Credit is rolled over annually.



- 51 -
KINGONM OF MOROCCO                                       ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Year                              Total       Foreign
Exchange
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
COMPONENT                            ----------------(DH million)----------------
INFRASTRUCTURE
Credit Outlets
Inves tment
Vehicles                         -       .29     .07      .09      .07       -          .52         58
Housing                          -       .25     .06      .04      .04      .04         .43         15
Subtotal                      -       .54      .13      .13      .11      .04         .95         37
Establishment Costs
Salaries                         -      .65    1.19    2.47    3.23    3.22           10.76          0
operating and other              -      .12      .16      .21      .25      .28        1.02         60
Subtotal                      -       .77    1.35    2.68    3.48    3.50          11.78           6
Total Without Contingencies        -     1.31    1.48    2.81    3.59    3.54           12.73          8
Physical Contingencies             -       .07     .02      .02      .03      .03         .17          8
Price Contingencies                -       .34      .40    1.06    1.72    2.05          5.57          8
Total                              -      1.72    1.90    3.89    5.34    5.62          18.47          8
Supply and Repair Centers
Investment
Buildings                       .40     .40      .40      .80      .80      .80        3.60         15
Equipment                       .10     .04      .04      _        _                    .18         58
Total Without Contingencies    .50         .44     .44      .80      .80      .80        3.78         17
Physical Contingencies            .05      .04     .04      .08      .08      .08         .37         17
Price Contingencies               .09      .15     .21      .52      .66      .82        2.45         17
Total                             .64      .63     .69    1.40    1.54    1.70           6.60         17
Roads
Inves tment
Civil Works                      -    21.10   20.10   29.10   30.20   29.10    129.60               50
Equipment                        -       -      1.60       -        -        -        1.60          65
Engineering                   3.90      .60      .50      .50      .50      .50       6.50          60
Subtotal                    3.90   21.70   22.20   29.60   30.70   29.60    137.70                51
Establisbment Costs
Maintenance                      -        -      .51      .89    1.36    1.68         4.44          60
Total Without Contingencies   3.90   21.70   22.71   30.49   32.06   31.28    142.14                  51
Physical Contingencies            .40    2.17    2.26    3.05    3.21    3.13          14.22          51
Price Contingencies               .51    7.56   10.75   19.45   25.88   31.14          95.29          51
Total                           4.81   31.43   35.72   52.99   61.15   65.55    251.65                51
Water Supply
Investment
Civil Works                      -    11.00   11.00   10.61         -        -       32.61          40
Equipment                        -     5.30    5.30    5.29         -        -       15.89          58
Engineering                   1.03      .20      .20      .20       -        -        1.63          60
Subtotal                    1.03   16.50   16.50   16.10          -        -      50.13           50
Establishment Costs
Operation                        -        -       -       .67    1.36    1.39         3.42          60
Total Without Contingencies   1.03   16.50   16.50   16.77    1.36    1.39             53.55          47
Physical Contingencies            .10    1.65    1.65    1.67        .14      .14       5.35          47
Price Contingencies               .14    5.08    7.14    9.39        .70      .87      23.32          47
Total                            1.27   23.23   25.29   27.03    2.20    2.40          82.22          47
Education
Inves tment
Buildings                     1.92    3.00    3.00    7.52    7.00    2.80          25.24           15
Architects                      .25      .20     .46      .20      .20       -        1.31          15
Total Without Contingencies   2.17    3.20    3.46    7.72    7.20    2.80             26.55          15
Physical Contingencies            .22      .32      .35     .77    *.72       .28       2.66          15
Price Contingencies               .43    1.10    1.63    5.09    5.88    2.86          16.99          15
Total                            2.82    4.62    5.44   13.58   13.80    5.94          46.20          15



- 52 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                      ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Year                                   Total    Foreign
Exchange
1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
COMPONENT                               ------------------(DH million)------- ----------
INFRASTRUCTURE (continued)
Health
Investment
Buildings                          -        1.00      1.70      2.10      1.40        -           6.20       15
Equipment                          -         .80       -         -          -         -            .80       58
Engineering                        .20       .20       -         -          -         -            .40       15
Total Without Contingencies           .20     2.00       1.70      2.10      1.40       -           7.40       19
Physical Contingencies                .02       .02       .17       .21       .14       -            .74       19
Price Contingencies                   .03       .57       .84      1.36      1.16       -           3.96       19
Total                                 .25     2.77      2.71       3.67      2.70       -          12.10       19
FEASIBILITY STUDIES
Investment
Loukkos Preparation                 2.00      2.60        -         -         -         -           4.60       60
Fes-Karia-Tissa 2
Preparation                                            2.40      2.00        -         -           4.40       60
Total Without Contingencies    2.00         2.60      2.40      2.00       -          -           9.00       60
Physical Contingencies             .20       .26       .24        .20      -          -            .90       60
Price Contingencies                .26       .57       .74        .81       -         _           2.38       60
Total                             2.46      3.43      3.38      3.01       _          -          12.28       60
TOTAL COSTS BEFORE CONTINGENCIES
Investment                           39.18    75.73    78.03    79.44    54.67    42.45             369.50        40
Establishment                          2.71      5.79      7.33    10.17    14.03    14.20           54.23        22
Total Costs                        41.89    81.52    85.36    89.61    68.70    56.65             423.73        38
Physical Contingencies                 4.01      7.76      8.09      8.30      6.03      4.82        39.01        42
Price Contingencies/a                  7.62    26.34    39.77    54.29    52.56    51.22            231.80        42
GRAND TOTAL                        53.52   115.62   133.22   152.20   127.29   112.69             694.54       40
/a Compounded deflators: (M)
Civil Works and Buildings           19        32         45        59        75        93
Equipment and Salaries              12        20         28        37        47        57
Credit                              20         37        55        76        99      125
May 1978



- 53 -                            ANNEX 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                                Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                      at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
FY8O  September 30, 1979                                          o
December 31, 1979                                          1.0
March 31, 1980                                             2.0
June 30, 1980                                              3.0
FY81  September 30, 1980                                         4.0
December 31, 1980                                          5.0
March 31, 1981                                             7.0
June 30, 1981                                            10.0
FY82  September 30, 1981                                        13.0
December 31, 1981                                         16.0
March 31, 1982                                            19.0
June 30, 1982                                            22.0
FY83  September 30, 1982                                        25.0
December 31, 1982                                         28.0
March 31, 1983                                            32.0
June 30, 1983                                            36.0
FY84  September 30, 1983                                        39.0
December 31, 1983                                        42.0
March 31, 1984                                            45.0
June 30, 1984                                            48.0
FY85  September 30, 1984                                        51.0
December 31, 1984                                        54.0
March 31, 1985                                            56.0
June 30, 1985                                            58.0
FY86  September 30, 1985                                        60.0
December 31, 1985                                         62.0
March 31, 1986                                            64.0
June 30, 1986                                             65.0
May 1978



- 54 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Road Design Standards
Geometric Design Standards
Item                       Unit                     Dimension
Design speed                         km/h            40                   60
Horizontal curvature:
(i) minimum radius (normal)        m            120                   240
(ii) minimum radius (absolute)      m             40                   120
Vertical curvature:
(i) minimum radius (crest)         m           2000                 2000
(ii) minimum radius (sag)           m           1000                  1000
Maximum gradient                       %             10                    9
Cross Section Features
Item                       Unit                     Dimension
Traffic above      Traffic less than
50 vehicles/day      50 vehicles/day
Carriageway width                      m            4.00                 3.00
Shoulder width                         m            1.50                 2.00
Surface type                           -      Double surface        Single surface
treatment            treatment
Width of prime coat                    m            5.00                 4.00
Base course thickness                  m            0.20                 0.20
Subbase course thickness               m       Dependent on subgrade conditions
May 1978



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Details of Roads Construction
Cost of
Road                   Cost of        Cost of        Drainage         Total
No.      Length      Earthworks      Pavement        Works           Cost         Cost/km                 Remarks
km          US$             US$            US$             US$        US$/km
A. Rehabilitation of old Roads
4051      11.020           1,600        597,100       191,500         790,200       71,700      7m platforms, 3m pavement
4053      31.862          38,700        919,100       194,000       1,151,800       36,150      14.1 km of 6m cross section
17.762 km of 7m cross section
4102      17.233            -           551,800        98,400         650,200       37,730      7m platform, 3m pavement
4155      11.950            -           413,600        60,200         473,800       39,660      4 km 6m platform    4m  av      t
7.95 km 7m platform4maven
4157      25.500            -           647,100       142,900         790,000       30,980      7m platform, 4m pavement
4158      14.460          17,800        712,200       104,700         834,700       57,720      8.4 km 7m platform
6.06 km 6m platform, 4m pavement
4154      13,550            -           260,000         28,400        288,400       21,290      6m platform, 3m pavement
4052      57.485          76,900      1,450,200       863,600       2,390,700       41,590      7m platform, 3m pavement
4104      35.740          44,400        784,700       120,900         950,000       26,580      7m platform, 3m pavement
4107       5.700            -           291,600         56,600        348,200       61,090      7m platform, 4m pavement
4111      20.200            -           764,900        76,700         841,600       41,660      7m platform, 4m pavement
244.700        179,400      7,392,300      1,937,900       9,509,600       38,860 [average]
B. New Road Construction on Dirt Tracks
4051       9.700         429,600        366,000        137,100       932,700        96,150      7m platform, 3m pavement
4054      10.218         424,200        387,600        269,800     1,081,600       105,850      7m platform, 3m pavement
4155      10.930         326,400        498,000        184,900     1,009,300        92,340      7m platform, 4m pavement
4102      26.400       1,758,900      1,280,000        573,300     3,612,200       136,830      7m platform, 4m pavement
4103       8.700         264,900        409,100        102,900       776,900        89,300      7m platform, 4m pavement
4105      11.820         469,600        417,500         52,200       939,300        79,470      7m platform, 3m pavement
4106      23.530       2,281,100        831,800        146,200     3,259,100       138,510      7m platform, 4m pavement
4108      20.000         636,900        739,100        313,300     1,689,300        84,470      7m platform, 3m pavement
4109      17.600       1,342,900        740,000        170,900     2,253,800       128,060      7m platform, 3m pavement
138.898      7.934.500      5,669,100      1.950.600    15.554,200        111,980 [average]
C. Realignment of Old Roads
30.000      1,714,000      1,223,000        423,000      3,360,000       112,000
r 19
May 1978



- 56 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 1
MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A - General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector and Subsector.
Ai - World Bank, Morocco, Current Economic Position and Prospects.
Report No. 1021-MOR, January 26, 1976.
A2 - World Bank, Morocco, Survey of the Agricultural Sector and
Prospects for the Development of Rainfed Areas. Report No.
1395a-MOR, March 16, 1977.
A3 - World Bank, Agricultural Credit, Sector Policy Paper, May 1975.
A4 - World Bank, Rural Development, Sector Policy Paper, February 1975.
A5 - World Bank, Forestry, Sector Policy Paper, September 1977.
B - General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1 - Kingdom of Morocco, Department of Agricultural Development in the
Ministry of Agriculture. "Projet de Developpement de l'Agricul-
ture Pluviale dans les Regions Cerealieres Prioritaires (incluant
le developpement rural de la zone focale de Fes-Karia-Tissa)",
June 1977.
B2 - USDA, Richard Highfill, Report on Soil Conservation Needs for the
Karia/Tissa/Fes Banlieue Project, Fes Province, Morocco May 1977.
B3 - Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture, Provincial Directorate
of Agriculture Fes-Boulemane, Projet de Developpement Integre des
Regions de Karia et Tissa, August 1976.
C - Selected Working Papers.
Cl - Consultants Report (Roads).
C2 - Pre-feasibility Studies for Roads and Water Supply Components.
C3 - Supplementary Government Preparation Reports on Education,
Training, Research and Credit.



- 57 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 2
C4 - Project File Prepared by Appraisal Mission
including:  Economic and Farm Budget Analysis
Monitoring and Evaluation
Terms of Reference for Consultants
Crop Production Costs
Present Land Use, Yields and Production
Conversion of Farmers According to Levels of
Technology
Farm Budgets
Markets and Prices
Information on Roads Component
Agricultural Services and Programs
(Extension, Training, Hillside Farming, Wasteland
Improvement, Medic Introduction)






600   U%U            4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4O          a~~~~~~~~~oo' ~~~~~~M A I     1978
- I   PROPSEO
>,<"' MJARA DAM                        U                                                                                                      KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES-KARIA-TISSA AGRICULTURE PROJECT
t t                                                                                                                                                             P t   R O- _   E CS  BO UN C O ARJ ET iIà
''~~~~~~  Y;-    O                                    'I                                       O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT  1,  ~ JC  S L   1-
E;-  .                              4                                   '-<J                                      P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - R -JC   NAS  -O --ER.I PAVE  TOE P-E-AIIAE
X O X 2 2 71 , z CA              N                                                                             AI                                               C     HA > y '  .  . . POSSIBLE NEW OUATINA FANRS U.SU OT Il PROJECT
3A IC -UE 4                       R Ti-ALS AA A-TERTUN
O    -l              -- -~~~l~          --IIOSOSUIS
i96\  g t=XzZ >-S4X\s a <  0 i
-1osN.-- -/      v     3,.  vr               S      - -                                                           )                            t;   UC U              - - -  1000150 UC- s
= ,~           -.>ATA      JN      U X                                rr,
AIIIRA/~~~~~~~~~~~~
E           f    AIS~~~~ SAOULE                                     <          'EI~-<                                                                                                     .1
--y 'Al-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEEIIU.I,E,OPO ~NOAIUEOEINU/ ,ANUEEE
yIO   ,a,  NN,OOOA,N,.OAO lDO,NEIDEE.AO
UEEEU,,EEA.E UA,NEEODUI L0-E U SUAOIOW,UUUE,
1.8-O~~~~~~~~~~~~~BEEEAYOEIEIOEENEIEUDEO,DIEEYEA,EEUN



