Page  1
E1906 
Environmental Management Framework 
Livelihood Recovery for DI Yogyakarta and Central Java 
 
Introduction 
 
1. 
The overall objective of the project is to contribute to the Government뭩 of 
Indonesia뭩 initiatives to assist micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) affected 
by the earthquake to revitalized their businesses and to re-integrate affected low income 
communities back into economic life.  The project focuses particularly on remote 
communities which have received little assistance so far. 
 
Objectives of the safeguard framework 
 
2. 
The social and environmental management framework provides general policies 
and guidelines to serve the following objectives: 
 

Protect human health; 

Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood; 

Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments 
or their cumulative effects; 

Enhance positive environmental outcomes; 

Avoid or minimize adverse environmental, economic and social impacts. 
 
3. 
The project has been classified Environment Safeguards Category FI given that it 
is unlikely to lead to significant adverse social and environmental impacts.  
 
Environmental Screening 
 
4. 
MSMEs will be checked against Government of Indonesia (GOI) screening 
criteria to ensure that no project would necessitate a full environmental assessment.  In an 
initial screening, the project type, scale, location, sensitivity, and the nature and 
magnitude of potential impacts, will be identified to classify the proposal in one of 4 
categories: 
 

Any potential MSMEs which fall into the World Bank's Category A and thus 
require preparation of a full EIA (AMDAL) for which the Ministry of 
Environment has set criteria will be excluded from project funding.  AMDALs 
(environmental impact assessments) are required for large sub-projects in the 
following areas: marine/freshwater conservation areas, peat areas, water 
catchment areas surrounding lakes and reservoirs, areas surrounding springs, 
scientific areas, areas susceptible to natural hazards, coastal mangrove areas, 
Page  2
coastal edges, forest protected areas, and cultural reserves. No MSMEs are 
expected and will be allowed in national parks, forest parks, or nature tourism 
parks.   

Those which fall into the World Bank's Category B but under the current 
Indonesian EIA System would require the preparation of site-specific 
Environmental Management (UKL) and Monitoring Plans (UPL) are also 
subject to BAPEDALDA reviews and approvals, with copies furnished to the 
Bank. It is expected that some small or medium industries may fall under this 
category in particular the medium industries. 

Those for which standard operating procedures (SOP) suffice, where generic 
good practice would protect the environment adequately.  The Minister of 
Environment through ProLH program has developed activities on eco 
efficiency in small and medium sized enterprises and  disseminated eco 
efficiency tools (good housekeeping, chemical management, environmental 
oriented cost management, environmental management accounting).  It is 
expected that some MSMEs may fall under this category. 

Those that require no environmental study, where no disturbance of land or 
water or discharge of pollutants is involved.  It is expected that most of the 
MSMEs may fall under this category. 
 
5. 
Special screening will be applied on the following cases: 
 

Pesticide, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products:  No 
subprojects using or producing these materials will be financed. 

Asbestos.  No asbestos-containing materials will be financed.  Special 
mitigation measures to address any issues with existing asbestos in any 
proposed sub-project (e.g. renovation of school buildings that may have used 
asbestos) will be applied.  

Sub-projects that produce liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions.  No 
manufacturing or processing operations will be financed that would produce 
pollutant-bearing effluents or emissions unless: (a) the operations are small-
scale; and (b) the cognizant Bapedalda reviews the design and certifies that it 
meets applicable water and air pollution control standards. 

Hazardous materials and wastes.  No MSME will be financed that uses, 
produces, stores or transports hazardous materials (toxic, corrosive or 
explosive) or generates "B3" (hazardous) wastes. 

Logging.  MSMEs involving logging operations or procurement of logging 
equipment will not be financed. 

MSMEs or activities with the potential for significant conversion or 
degradation of critical forest areas or related critical natural habitats (as 
defined in OP 4.36 on Forests)   

Mining or excavation of live coral. 
 
Page  3
6. 
The implementing agency will be responsible for ensuring that the negative list 
approach is applied, and that revisions are made to the list, as necessary. 
 
Training 
 
7. 
The Ministry of Environment with the support of GTZ through the joint project 
ProLH (Indonesian-German Environmental Program) developed activities on eco 
efficiency in small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, this program initiated the 
establishment of the Indonesian Cleaner Production Center (ICPC) in 2004 in order to 
stimulate the development of the Cleaner Production (CP) and Eco Efficiency (EE) 
market. The ICPC is stimulating, facilitating and catalyzing Eco Efficiency 
implementation by supporting service providers in Indonesia. The ICPC is acting as a 
platform for Eco Efficiency, providing training, awareness-raising events, knowledge 
management, and demonstration projects targeting local service providers. Currently it 
cooperates with three regional CP centers, namely P3BD (regional cleaner Production 
Development Center in Semarang Jawa Tengah), Forum Eko Efisiensi D.I. Yogjakarta 
(Ecoforum Yogyakarta), and CPCU (Cleaner Production Clinic UnMul, East 
Kalimantan). 
 
8. 
Training measures are offered in the following fields: 
 

Good Housekeeping  

Chemical Management  

Occupational health and Safety  

Environmental Management (Accounting and Environmental performance 
Assessment/Indicators)  

Cleaner Production (CP) General & Communication  

CP Marketing strategy  

CP and Banking  
 
9. 
Quite a number of eco efficiency measures decrease costs (energy saving, e.g. 
more fuel efficient kilns for the ceramics industries) or increase profits in other ways. 
GTZ will employ the services of ICPC and its service providers to train loan officers to 
identify and finance these win-win constellations. At the same time, when entrepreneurs 
replace their earthquake-damaged or -destroyed assets, loan officers together with MSME 
should pay attention to that new investments will be more environment-friendly. 
 
Reporting 
 
10. 
The implementing agency will aggregate and review environmental reports and 
flag them in their bi-annual reports.  The project manual will include a matrix of likely 
environmental impacts and steps with which to address them.  An experienced 
environmental consultant will be hired to summarize progress, monitor and measure the 
impact of the project on the environment as part of the performance evaluation of the 
Page  4
project. The Implementing Agency will prepare bi-annual environmental summary 
reports to be submitted in English to the World Bank.  This report would include: 
 

A
summary of significant mitigation measures, if any, undertake during the 
previous six months; 

A
description of any significant problems or successes in environmental 
mitigation during the period; and  

Anticipated notable environmental or social events anticipated during the 
coming six months.
 
