Dowmsnz Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4290-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 17.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
June 2, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc
US$1.00          CFAF 360
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)      2       =  0.6 mile (mi)         2
l ssuare kilometer (km )      =  0.39 square miles (mi )
I m  = 1,000 liters (1)       =  6.37 barrels = 267.54 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      -  African Development Fund
BDEAC     -  Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BIAT      -  Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique au Tchad
BTCD      -  Banque Tchadienne de Credit et des Depots
CARE      -  Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CCCE      -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFAF      -  Communaute Financiare Africaine (CFA) Francs
CFDT      -  Compagnie Frangaise pour le Developpement de Textiles
CTT       -  Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens
DGT       -  Direction Generale des Transports
DPW       -  Department of Public Works
EDF       -  European Development Fund
EEC       -  European Economic Community
ENTP      -  Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
FAC       -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO/OSRO  -  Food and Agriculture Organization/Office of Sahelian Relief
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD      -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       -  International Development Agency
LBF       -  Live Aid/Band Aid Foundation
LENTP     -  Laboratoire d'Etude National des Travaux Publics
MPWHUD    -  Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban Development
MCT       -  Manufacture de Cigarettes du Tchad
MTCA      -  Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
NGO       -  Non Governmental Organization
OFNAR     -  Office National des Routes
SDR       -  Special Drawing Right
SIMAT     -  Societe Industrielle de Materiel Agricole
SME       -  Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
SONASUT   -  Societe Nationale Sucriare du Tchad
STEE      -  Societe Tchadienne d'Energie Electrique                         _
STT       -  Societe Tchadienne du Textile
ND?P      -  United Nations Development Program
UNDP/OPE  -  UNDP/Office of Project Execution
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
vpd       -  Vehicles per day
WFP       -  World Food Program



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   The Government of Chad
Beneficiaries and
Implementing Agencies:     The Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban
Development;
The Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation.
Amount:                     SDR 17.1 million (US$20.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:        This project is an emergency operation in the
road transport sector which is a top priority in
Chad's post-war reconstruction effort. It would
assist the Ministries of Public Works and
Transport to rebuild their capacity to rehab-
ilitate and maintain the country's high priority
network, address important institution building
objectives in the transport sector, help resolve
constraints on the efficiency and competitive-
ness of the road transport industry, and coordi-
nate and complement other donors' activities in
the sector. The principal components of the
project are: (a) routine maintenance of up to
2,000 km of high priority roads; (b) rehabili-
tation and routine maintenance of a road linking
the industrial center of N'Djamena with the
country's primary road network; (c) rehabili-
tation of the ferry at Moissala and replacement
of the ferry at Onoko, and construction of short
access roads; (d) reconstruction of the bridge
at Lere and construction of access roads;
(e) provision of buildings and equipment to sup-
port the priority program for routine mainte-
nance; and (f) studies and technical assistance
to support project implementation and prepara-
tion of a follow-up operation in the sector.
Project Benefits
and Risks:               The project would help to re-establish normal
trade flows and would support restructuring of
the cotton sector. It would reduce transport
costs on 2,000 km of priority roads, and avoid
higher costs that would be incurred if recently
rehabilitated roads were allowed to deteriorate.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of the N'Djamena
| This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
industrial road would significantly reduce
transport costs and relieve urban congestion.
Rehabilitation of the bridge and ferries would
improve internal and external communications and
effect significant operating cost savings. The
project would have a substantial institutional
impact on the Ministries of Public Works and
Transport, OFNAR, and the trucking industry by
developing the management and technical skills
necessary for managing the road sector and by
increasing productivity and competitiveness in
the road transport industry.
The physical components of the project are lo-
cated in areas unlikely to be affected by po-
litical unrest. Although the general economic
situation and depressed cotton prices could
constrain the rate of recovery in economic acti-
vity, the most important risks would be an in-
crease in project costs and inadequate absorp-
tive capacity. Even with a 20% increase in
total project costs, including technical assist-
ance, the project would still be justified. The
risks arising from possible limits on adminis-
trative capacity are addressed through technical
assistance and on-the-job training and through
possible recourse to private contractors.
Nevertheless implementation of the project will
require intensive monitoring and supervision by
IDA staff.
Rate of Return:             The overall economic rate of return is 21%,
covering about 82% of project costs. The rates
of return for individual project components vary
from 12% for the bridge and access roads and 16%
for the N'Djamena industrial road, to 46% for
routine maintenance of rehabilitated roads and
59% for the ferries.



os
- no



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Chad for SDR 17.1 million (US$20.0
million equivalent) to help finance a Highway Maintenance Project. The
credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I. THE ECONOMY 11
2.        The last economic report on Chad (Report No. 1340-CD) was distri-
buted to the Board on June 30, 1977. Bank activities, including economic
and sector work, resumed in May 1985 after several years of interruption due
to civil war. A new Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled for FY87.
Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        Chad is a landlocked, sahelian country with an area of 1,284,000
kM2 and three climatic zones. In the northern saharan zone, where rainfall
is less than 300 mm per annum, the dominant activity is nomadic and
transhumant livestock herding. Agricultural production is undertaken infre-
quently and is only possible in oases and in lowlands during periodic
flooding.  In the middle sahelian zone, one finds transhumant and sedentary
livestock herding as well as extensive rainfed cultivation centered on
mi,let and sorghum. Because of the dependence on rainfed cropping, this
zone is particularly vulnerable to climatic variability. The southern
sudanian zone makes up a quarter of the country's area. The region receives
rainfall ranging from 600 mm to 1,200 am per year, allowing the production
of cotton as a cash crop and cereals, tubers, and groundnuts as major food
crops.
4.       The population of Chad was estimated at approximately 5 million
in 1985, with about 40% in the southern sudanian zone, 57% in the middle
sahelian zone, and only 3% in the northern saharan zone. Approximately 80%
of the population lives in rural areas, although the urban population has
1/  Parts I and II are substantially the same as those in the President's
Report for the Emergency Cotton Program Credit, which was presented
to the Executive Directors on June 24, 1986.



- 2 -
been growing at an annual rate more than three times faster than that of the
total population (6.4% compared to 2.1%). The capital city, N'Djamena, is
estimated to have about 400,000 inhabitants.
Economic Constraints and Potential
5.        With an estimated per capita income of about US$130 in 1985, Chad
is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world. It ranks
at or near the bottom of the low-income economies with respect to life
expectancy, literacy and health-related indicators. Moreover, in recent
years, political conflict has disrupted economic activities and social
services and has discouraged investment. Development is constrained by:
(i) the country's landlocked position, which creates high transportation
costs; (ii) internal distances, which hinder political and economic inte-
gration; and (iii) climatic variability, which leads to fluctuations in
agricultural production. Chad does have, however, a number of factors in
its favor. The economic system is liberal and has produced a dynamic
informal sector. The country is also blessed with considerable agricultural
potential, thanks to its extensive areas of arable land, two perennial
rivers (Logone and Chari), and low population density. Some five million
hectares of land have potential for irrigation, and in years of normal
rainfall, agricultural production already reaches self-sufficiency levels.
In this respect, Chad is among the better-off countries of the Sahel. In
addition, Chad has significant, but under-exploited, livestock resources.
Ongoing petroleum exploration has revealed significant oil reserves in Chad,
although it is too early to assess when and under what conditions they can
be efficiently exploited. There are also indications of mineral reserves
which have not yet been carefully evaluated.
Structure of the Economy
6.        Agriculture, broadly defined to include livestock and fishing,
dominates the Chadian economy, providing the livelihood for the majority of
the population, absorbing 85Z of the total labor force, and generating
nearly half of GDP. Food crops are the principal output and, in 1985,
contributed 23% of GDP, while cash crops other than food (mostly cotton)
accounted for 4%, and livestock and fishing, together, for 17%. The sector,
on the whole, is extremely vulnerable to climatic fluctuations. The "secon-
dary" sector, comprising industry and energy, is relatively weak, accounting
for only about 20% of GDP in 1985. Production derives mainly from six
enterprises: MCT (cigarettes), SONASUT (sugar), Brasseries du Logone
(beer), STT (textiles), Cotontchad (cotton lint, oil and soap), and STEE
(electricity and water).  Small- and medi 1-scale enterprises (SMEs)  are
still quite underdeveloped.  The "services" sector, consisting largely of
formal and informal commercial activities, generated about 35% of GDP in
1985.
7.        The Chadian economy has two predominant features.  The first is
the dynamic nature of the informal sector which helped assure the survival
of the country throughout the war period. However, the extensive use of
informal channels today deprives the State of an important source of reve-
nue. The second feature is the dominance of the cotton sector in the
economy, accounting for approximately 80% of export earnings, 25% of



-3 -
government revenues and 13% of agricultural production. The cotton sector
is a source of cash income for two-fifths of Chad's population and absorbs
more than 50% of domestic credit. Sector activities are organized by
Cotontchad, a majority-government-owned company which is solely responsible
for purchasing, processing and marketing Chad's cotton.
The Civil War (1979-82)
8.        The Chadian economy reached its peak production level in 1977,
just prior to a devastating three-year civil war. GDP attained CFAF 162
billion (US$157 per capita) that year, fueled by a record cotton crop of
174,000 (metric) tons in 1975/76. At the time, Chad had four domestic
banks, some large-scale domestic manufacturing industries, an estimated
80-100 small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs), and an active informal
sector.
9.        Little reliable data exist from the civil war period, but one can
hardly overestimate the negative effects of the war, which produced wide-
spread destruction of property and considerable human loss. Economic
activity was seriously disrupted, leading to a reduction of at least 30% in
aggregate output. Formal, modern sector activities were the hardest hit,
with most industries severely reducing or totally suspending operations.
The expatriate sector, always limited in Chad, withdrew completely. The
banking sector shut down entirely, as did the Central Bank for a two-year
period. Only the cotton industry continued to operate, overcoming great
logistical difficulties, although production of cotton seed averaged only
80,000 tons per annum (65% of the average production during 1973-77). More
than half of the known SMEs were destroyed or temporarily shut down. The
population of N'Djamena fell to less than a third of its pre-war level of
300,000, and the city was largely destroyed. Political administration, at
all levels, ceased to function, and public utilities and government services
were abandoned. Much infrastructure and physical capital were destroyed,
disappeared, or simply deteriorated from neglect. The road network, in
particular, deteriorated severely, crippling internal trade and producing
economic fragmentation.
Post-War Developments
10.       Hissein  Habre, now President of the Republic, took control of
N'Djamena in June 1982. His government has since gained effective control
of the territory south of the 16th parallel, which contains 97Z of the
country's population.  In 1983, opposition forces with foreign support
occupied a large part of the northern zone. The continued occupation of
this barren zone has no significant direct impact on Chad's economic situa-
tion, but it represents a constant political threat which discourages
potential investment in the country. Recent rebel incursions below the 16th
parallel have been reversed by Government forces. In the remainder of the
country, the Government launched a program of national reconciliation in
1983 in a successful effort to rally exiled political opponents and former
southern combattants to the Habre regime.  In January 1986, the last
remaining rebel leader in the south rallied to the Habre Government, raising
hopes of lasting political stability in the sudanian zone.



- 4 -
11.       Since 1982, the Habre Government has worked quickly and effect-
ively to reconstitute key ministries and develop municipal administrations,
and has been successful in establishing a core government. With the resto-
ration of relative political stability, the economy began a period of
recovery, with real GDP growing by 5.5% in 1983, to reach 78% of the 1977
level. Considerable reconstruction ensued and the population of N'Djamena
has risen rapidly to far surpass its pre-war peak. Economic recovery was
stalled, however, by the unprecedented drought of 1984-85, and is now
threatened by a crisis affecting the cotton sector.
12.       The Drought.  The 1984-85 drought had lmmediate, severe and
widespread effects. It caused Lake Chad to shrink to one-tenth of its
normal size and dried up segments of the Chari River. Food production dropped
from an average of over 600,000 tons/year for the 1975-80 period to only
310,000 tons, leading to a deficit of about 300,000 tons, or half of total
requirements. The northern sahelian zone was particularly affected, creat-
ing an influx of refugees to the south. A vell-coordinated international
relief effort, led by the UNDP and carried out with full cooperation from
the Government, averted widespread famine and avoided the establishment of
refugee camps through the relocation and resettlement of displaced popu-
lations in productive agricultural zones. Economic recovery ground to a
halt, however, with a 4.5% drop in real GDP in 1984. Good rainfall in 1985
allowed food production to recover significantly, approaching
self-sufficiency levels. The situation remains fragile, however, because
of: Mi) the constant threat of drought; (ii) the risk of a premature return
of the nomadic population to traditional but ecologically unstable areas in
the northern Sahel region; (iii) the dilapidated road network, vhich contin-
ues to frustrate commercial activity; (iv) the lack of resources for ag-
ricultural support services; and (v) the potentially disruptive effect of
the past season's massive food distribution and the remaining food aid
stocks on normal production patterns and local market operations.
13.       The Cotton Sector Crisis.  A severe disequilibrium in the world
cotton market caused the world price of this commodity, in dollar terms, to
drop by 40% between mid-1984 and mid-1985. In conjunction with the depre-
ciation of the dollar, this fall has brought about a drop in the CFAF price
of Chad's cotton exports from nearly CFAF 800/kg (F.O.B. Douala) to less
than CFAF 400/kg. The hitherto profitable Cotontchad company is now operat-
ing at a loss, with a cumulative deficit of CFAF 23 billion (US$64 million)
as of February 1986.  This deficit surpasses estimated Government revenues
for 1986 and is, therefore, beyond the ability of the company or the Govern-
ment to support or correct, given market prospects. Owing to the high level
of world stocks, no rapid price recovery is expected.
Progress Towards Recovery
14.       Despite the negative impact of drought and continued political
difficulties, the Chadian Government and people have made progress towards
economic recovery. As previously noted, reconstruction and resumption of
economic activities were facilitated by exceptionally good cotton production
and exports in 1983/84. These, together with favorable world market con-
ditions, helped to replenish foreign exchange reserves and boost government
revenues.



15.       Reestablishment of the administration and the growth of revenues
allowed the resumption of government services on a limited scale. In the
education sector, schools have reopened, teachers are being trained, and
enrollments, in absolute terms, are higher than pre-war levels. The average
elementary school enrollment ratio remains low, however -- an estimated 30%
-- a figure which masks wide variations by gender and by region. The health
sector has benefitted considerably from foreign assistance. The number of
public health facilities has surpassed pre-war levels, although the quality
of facilities varies greatly. In 1982, the National School of Public Health
reopened, and a village-level basic health care program was launched.
Despite considerable progress, health status in Chad is quite low, with an
estimated infant mortality rate of 184 per 1,000 births and a life expectan-
cy of only 43 years. Both the education and health sectors face severe
financial constraints and suffer from a lack of personnel, training pro-
grams, equipment and supplies.
16.       In general, with the exception of the drought year, Chad's economy
has recovered rapidly since 1982. Given a good harvest, real GDP in 1986 is
expected to surpass its 1977 peak. Because of population growth, however,
real per capita income will remain below its 1977 level. Modern sector
activities have largely recovered. The Central Bank reopened in 1983, and
two banks, BIAT (Banque International pour l'Afrique au Tchad) and BTCD
(Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de Depots), have resumed operations.
Recovery in the subsistence sector and in small-scale entrepreneurial
activities has also been impressive, despite the often complete lack of
public services and domestic credit.
17.       The resurgence of economic activity and the resulting growth in
GDP allowed1 the Government to more than double revenues between 1983 and
1985: from CFAF 9 billion to CFAF 21 billion (US$47 million). New tax
measures and improved tax collection should permit the Government to main-
tain revenues at this level, despite the loss in cotton export tax proceeds.
Although expenditures continue to outstrip revenues, the size of the fiscal
deficit relative to revenues fell from 48% in 1983 to 22% in 1984 and 1985.
Public expenditures remain relatively low compared to current needs, thanks
to the restraint exercised by the Chadian authorities, particularly regard-
ing the size of the civil service. Despite a recent pay increase, civil
servants are still receiving only 60% of their 1977 wages in nominal terms.
18.       Bank credit has expanded rapidly in the last three years, with
credit to the public sector declining to the point where it represented only
5% of total domestic credit outstanding by the end of 1985. The expansion
of credit, along with a balance of payments surplus (discussed below), led
to a 60% increase in money and quasi-money in 1984. However, the cotton
crisis and the recent deterioration of the balance of payments caused the
growth in money supply to slow to an estimated 11 in 1985. No consumer
price index has been compiled in Chad since 1979. On the basis of limited
information available on selected commodities, the average annual inflation
rate over the 1979-85 period was on the order of 8-10%.
19.       Chad's balance of payments, like most economic indicators, has
varied with the fortunes of cotton. The large increase in cotton exports
and the high level of external financial assistance in 1983 and 1984



- 6 -
produced surpluses in both the current account and the overall balance in
those years. In 1985, a relatively small cotton crop led to a lower volume
of cotton exports which, at a lower world price, severely reduced export
earnings. At the same time, continued economic growth induced an expansion
in imports and contributed to bring about a current account deficit of
approximately CFAF 40 billion (US$89 million), equal to 13% of GDP. The
deficit was financed by a combination of increased capital inflows for oil
exploration and larger drawings on medium and long-term loans. The overall
balance moved into deficit for the first time in several years. In recent
years, even during periods of reserve build-up, Chad continued to accumulate
external arrears because of the budgetary difficulties experienced and the
statutory limit on the outstanding credit available to the Government from
the Central Bank for Central African States.
20.       The Chad Government is committed to resuming debt service payments
and has worked with its major creditors to reconstruct its debt records,
settle arrears with multilateral organizations, and begin repayment on a
limited basis of arrears and current debt-service obligations. The recon-
structed records show an end of 1985 stock of debt outstanding and dis-
bursed of US$136 million, or a debt-to-GDP ratio of only 21%, among the
lowest in Af;ica. Debt service was US$7.8 million in 1985, implying a
debt-service ratio of just 14%. The Chadian Government earmarks revenues
for a Debt Amortization Fund (CAA), about one-third of which have come from
Cotontchad's cotton production and exports. Despite the loss of an esti-
mated CFAF 600 million (US$1.7 million) in earmarked cotton revenues, CAA's
total resources are expected to rise from CFAF 1.3 billion in 1985 to over
CFAF 1.8 billion (US$5 million) in 1986, thanks to new tax measures and
increased rates on other goods (e.g., beer, cigarettes). This level of
resources, however, will permit Chad to pay only two-thirds of its estimated
1986 debt service of US$7.5 million. The Government intends, therefore, to
seek Paris Club negotiations to reduce its 1986 debt service obligations to
the level of CAA's available resources. In addition, the Government and its
creditors must develop a plan to begin settling arrears estimated in late
1985 at US$61 million (US$44 million in principal, US$17 million in inter-
est), a portion of which can be addressed at the Paris Club negotiations.
Government Objectives
21.       With the restoration of relative political stability and the
alleviation of last year's drought situation, Chad is ready to begin the
transition from ad hoc emergency operations to longer-term development
planning. Last year, the Government prepared, with UNDP assistance, an
Interim Plan for 1986-88, which was presented to the donors at a UNDP-
sponsored Round Table Conference held tn December 1985. In that document,
the Government identified the following broad objectives: achieving food
self-sufficiency on a national and region-by-region basis; resettling the
population displaced by the drought; reconstituting the livestock herd;
improving rural water supply and combatting desertification; rehabilitating
the transport system; rebuilding the industry sector and exploiting the
country's -petroleum resources; intensifying and diversifying export produc-
tion; rehabilitating the commercial and financial structures; and providing
basic health care. In pursuing these objectives, the Government aims to
follow two basic principles:  (i) engaging in limited public sector



- 7 -
intervention, and (ii) encouraging private, mostly small-scale and tradi-
tionally-rooted initiat*ives.
22.       The Interim Plan included a list of nearly 200 project proposals
which require further study. The Government's goal this year is to work
with the donors to define appropriate sector strategies and to transform
this list of projects into a realistic public investment program - one
which takes into account Chad's financial constraints (which are heightened
by the cotton crisis) and limited administrative capacity. Chad has not
produced an investment budget since 1975; it will use this 1986 exercise as
a learning process, leading to more systematic investment programming in
subsequent years. At the Round Table Conference, the donor community
pledged to help build the Government's capacity for development planning and
investment programming. In particular, the donors and the Government
requested IDA to insure donor coordination in the transport sector.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
Evolution of External Assistance and IDA Operations
23.       Before the civil war, Chad received a significant, although not
exceptional, amount of external assistance. From 1971 to 1975, aid dis-
bursements averaged US$57 million per annum, with the yearly total rising
from about US$11 per capita to over US$20 per capita over the five-year
period. An estimated 30% of this consisted of technical assistance and
approximately 80% was grant aid. Although the absolute annual amount of
grant aid more than doubled in this period, the share of grants feli from
86Z in 1972 to 77% in 1975 as a result of increased borrowing. Neverthe-
less, Chad's external indebtedness has remained fairly low and on favorable
terms.  Annex II contains a summwry statement of Bank Group operations in
Chad as of March 31, 1986.
24.       Since 1968, Chad has received 16 IDA credits totaling US$79
million. Ten of these (amounting to US$30 million) have been fully dis-
bursed; four (amounting to another US$30 million) are still disbursing; and
two, totaling US$19 million, were cancelled due to the disruption caused by
the civil war. Of the 14 disbursed or disbursing credits, six were for
agricultural or rural development, five for education, two for highways, and
one for livestock development. All Bank Group operations in Chad were
officially suspended in July 1979 because of accumulated arrears on IDA
credits. Escalating hostilities had already halted project activities and
led to considLrable damage to project assets. Most official donors and
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) withdrew from Chad during the war,
although many returned in 1982 and 1983, soon after President Hissein Habr6
gained control of N'Djamena.



25.       The donor community has since been quite active, contributing an
average of US$117 million per annum in the 1983-85 period, 2/ 90Z of which
was grant aid. More than half of the total (US$61 million per annum) took
the form of emergency assistance, including large amounts of food aid; US$11
million per annum consisted of budget support (mostly from France and the
U.S.), and US$45 million per annum was project-related development assist-
ance, comprising the entirety of Chad's development budget. Key areas of
intervention have been: reestablishment of the administration (France);
technical assistance to ministries (France, UN);  road rehabilitation
(France, EDF, U.S., Italy); non-cotton agricultural development (U.S., EDF,
France, UN, Switzerland); cotton production (France, EDF); livestock devel-
opment (France, EDF); health planning and care (U.S., France, EDF, UN); and
drought relief (U.S., UN). NGOs have also been very active in Chad's relief
and development efforts through small, independent projects. In addition,
official donors have channeled funds through NGOs during periods when, or in
areas where, Chad's own administrative capacity was particularly weak. The
proliferation of donor and NGO activities following the war has accentuated
the need for improved aid coordination - a problem which was raised at the
Donors' Round Table Conference late last year.
Relations with the IMF
26.       In September 1985, Chad purchased SDR 7.0 million under the
compensatory financing facility in respect of a merchandise export short-
fall. This shortfall was related predominantly to the effects of dis-
cussions with the Fund on a possible adjustment program that could be
supported by the Fund. In February i986, a Fund mission conducted Article
IV consultation discussions with Chad and continued discussions on a possi-
ble Fund supported program. At this time, the dialogue on an adjustment
program is still actively continuing. An appropriate program could be
supported with the resources of the Structural Adjustment Facility. Under
this Facility, Chad would be able to make drawings of 20%, 13%, and 13.5% of
its quota over the next three years (Chad's quota in the Fund is SDR 30.6
million). During the last two years, Chad has also received several techni-
cal assistance missions from the Fund. These include a resident general
fiscal advisor, who has been in place since June 1985, for a two-year
period, and a resident advisor in the area of domestic and external debt for
one year from August 1985.
Bank Group Strategy and Future Operations
27.       Bank efforts to resume IDA activities in 1982 and 1983 were
foiled by renewed hostilities, although periodic supervision missions were
undertaken. In 1983, the suspended projects were redesigned to fund
priority activities in agriculture, education and institution building.
Disbursements on these redesigned projects did not resume until September
1984, when Chad made its first payment on a plan to sectle US$1.9 million
in IDA arrears. By May 1985, the arrears situation was settled, paving the
2/   Using the 1984 average exchange rate of 437 CFAF/US$.



- 9 -
way for new IDA lending. An identification mission in October 1985 began to
outline the Bank's strategy in Chad and also alerted the Government and the
international community to the impending financial crisis in the cotton
sector.
28.       The Bank's current strategy supports the objectives of Chad's
Interim Plan (para. 21), and focuses on helping to coordinate activities
within the Government's priority program related to: (i) achieving regional
and national food self-sufficiency; (ii) overcoming the cotton crisis; (iii)
rehabilitating and improving essential infrastructure, especially recon-
struction and maintenance of the road network; (iv) diversifying economic
production, especially by increabing offtake in the livestock sector and
exploiting oil resources; and (v) strengthening administrative, development
management, and policy analysis capabilities through institution building.
These goals will be pursued through policy dialogue, lending, and economic
and sector work in the transport, agriculture, petroleum, and education
sectors, as well as through intervention in the critical cotton subsector.
In addition, the Bank has agreed to take the lead in coordinating donor
assistance for transport, petroleum and cotton. Appraisal missions in
February and March 1986 prepared projects in agricultural rehabilitation,
cotton, and the one presented here, while petroleum and education activities
are in the process of identifi_ation. The operations proposed for these
sectors are intended to fit into "sectoral action programs" which have been
defined to take into account Chad's priority needs as well as constraints.
These action programs are briefly described below.
29.       The Road Transport Sector Action Program.  As part of a five-year
comprehensive transport program, the Bank will coordinate donor efforts to
rehabilitate existing roads and eliminate key bottlenecks in the road
network; lay the foundation for routine and periodic road maintenance, to be
financed increasingly from domestic resources; help finance maintenance
operations over an extended period; assist in establishing an efficient,
competitive transport industry; and strengthen the Government's institu-
tional capacity for planning, maintenance, and supervision in the transport
sector. The proposed emergency Highway Maintenance Project, scheduled to
begin in FY87, will complement and coordinate efforts undertaken by other
donors and will include: (i) investment and recurrent cost financing for
routine maintenance, gradually increasing to cover 2,000 km of roads over a
two-year period; (ii) rehabilitation of one critical road link and replace-
ment of a key bridge; (iii) provision of ferries and reconstruction of
access roads; (iv) technical assistance and training to support transport
institutions; and (v) resources for follow-up studies on road rehabili-
tation, cost recovery, and the transport industry. A follow-on project is
planned for FY89.
30.       The Agricultural Sector Action Program.  An agricultural rehabil-
itation project is planned for FY87 primarily as a technical development
project consisting of: (i) a large technical assistance component to help
define development policies and implementation strategies in areas such as
research and seed production, extension and training, and rural engineering
and agricultural planning; (ii) pilot schemes for smallholder crop produc-
tion using supplementary irrigation (i.e., natural wadis and appropriate
riverside sites with pumped water); (iii) initiation of a national scheme



- 10 -
for organizing locally-autonomous maintenance of rural water points; and
(iv) important subsector studies of crop diversification potential, rice
production strategies, irrigation potential and national licencing author-
ity, livestock processing and marketing, soil conservation and afforesta-
tion, and rural credit needs.
31.       The Petroleum Development Action Program.  The Bank is having a
1983 study of petroleum potential in Chad revised and updated to analyze the
costs and benefits of alternative options for petroleum development and
identify a project suitable for Bank Group financing. The report became
available in May 1986, and possible project components are now being
specified. Any eventual petroleum project will require a large amount of
cofinancing, the active participation of the private sector, and technical
assistance to strengthen the Government's management of the sector.
32.       The Education/Training Sector Action Program.  The program for
this sector has three components:  (i) to mount (possibly under UNDP financ-
ing) a training program aimed at increasing efficiency in the Ministry of
Education and possibly in the Human Resources Division of the Ministry of
Planning; (ii) to provide operational training in the sectors identified as
top priority for the reconstruction of the country; and (iii) to prepare, on
the basis of sector work to be conducted in FY87, a project aimed at restor-
ing the basic education system and developing flexible training approaches
in order to respond speedily to emerging employment needs, especially in the
productive sectors.
33.       The Cotton Subsector Action Program.  The problems confronting the
sector are currently being examined through two complementary studies, one
supported by the French Government (CCCE/CFDT) and one executed by the Bank
with UNDP financing. The former aims at identifying a set of immediate
measures to be undertaken while the latter will identify the longer term
needs. These two studies will determine how and when the sector can achieve
financial viability and under what conditions. They will also define a
detailed set of measures to reduce costs and improve efficiency, along with
a precise schedule for implementation and a projection of the results. The
Bank executed study includes: (i) a financial and technical audit of
Cotontchad, and (ii) a review of all phases of the cotton industry (agricul-
tural production, transport, storage, ginning, price and incentive policies.
and ongoing and planned investment). The Bank will also reassess the
overall macroeconomic framework in which Cotontchad operates, and will work
to secure financing to meet short- and medium-term needs in the sector and
reestablish Cotontchad on a viable long-term basis. An emergency cotton
sector rehabilitation program has been prepared, to be supported by an IDA
credit.



- 11 -
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
34.       Chad's survival and future development as a landlocked country
almost 2,000 km from the sea, with vast distances between the main urban
centers, depends on adequate transportation capacity and reduced transport
costs. Most of Chad's domestic and international transport is provided by
road, although air services are important for some isolated regions. River
and lake transport are highly uncertain under Chad's climatic conditions and
do not play a significant role at the present time. There is no railroad in
Chad. To encourage national economic integration, Chad must develop the
most efficient road transportation possible, focusing on road rehabilitation
and maintenance, and the promotion of a competitive road transport industry.
Given the additional need to establish internal transportation links which
will enhance political integration and stability and facilitate commodity
distribution, the transport sector is a top priority in Chad's post-war
reconstruction effort.
35.       Chad is heavily dependent on external trade routes through
Cameroon, Central African Republic, the Congo and Nigeria. The opening of
the Trans-Cameroon route in 1973 by extension of the Cameroon Railroad to
N'Gaoundere and the paving of the highway from N'Gaoundere northwards to
Kousseri on the frontier with Cameroon has profoundly changed the distri-
bution and cost of imported goods traffic. However, Chad has not yet
enjoyed the full benefits of these developments, nor the even greater
benefit to be obtained by full use of the Nigerian route. The development
of the internal transport system has been handicapped by difficult soil,
climatic and hydrological conditions combined with a lack of suitable road
building materials. These have contributed to high construction and mainte-
nance costs for roads which are difficult to justify in the light of the
limited resource potential of the country and the limited traffic demands.
36.       While construction and maintenance of Chad's road network has
always been severely hampered by internal distances, difficult conditions,
and insufficient resources, road construction and maintenance ceased alto-
gether with the advent of civil war in 1978, and most of the maintenance
fleet disappeared or fell into disrepair in subsequent years. Despite
rehabilitation efforts by several donors since 1983, the road network is
still in a very poor state, with average speeds of 20-30 km per hour or
less. Vehicle operating costs have doubled in real terms since 1980.
37.       The transport industry lost over half its fleet during the war.
Since the war ended, however, local transporters have proven resilient, with
the number of trucks and level of activity increasing significantly since
1983. The fleet, however, is old and inefficient, and there is an almost
complete lack of garages, spare parts, and formal credit to purchase new
vehicles. Operating costs are extremely high due to poor road conditions
and low capacity utilization, arising primarily from the imbalance between
import and export traffic.
38.       The decline of Chad's road network, transport industry, and
transport administration became critical when the 1984-85 drought created



- 12 -
the need for a massive food distribution effort. The subsequent mobi-
lization of domestic and international resources succeeded in averting
widespread famine, and has improved prospects in the transport sector as
well. A number of donors (e.g. EDF, FAC, USAID, UNDP) have completed or
committed themselves to rehabilitation of some of the principal roads and,
starting in early 1988, to an important contribution to maintenance. The
U.N.-coordinated relief operation brought in a fleet of over 300 vehicles,
managed a well-equipped garage, provided some training for mechanics and
maintenance teams, and organized private transporters to assist in the
effort to move 150,000 tons of food aid in the short but critical period of
April-September 1985. Now, as the emergency situation subsides, the UNDP
fleet should in principle be turned over to the Government. However, this
should only happen following the development of a plan for its efficient use
and maintenance, probably including the privatization of at least part of
the fleet. Assistance will be needed to evaluate present proposals and to
prepare and implement an action program that will limit government respon-
sibility for providing transport services and move towards more efficient
organization of the sector.
External Links
39.       Since 1974, traffic has been concentrated more and more on the
Ca-meroon route, which now carries about 95% of total external traffic, other
than petroleum. The external route through Central African Republic and the
Congo is mainly used today to keep open this strategic option. Use of the
Nigerian routes, which should provide many material and commercial advan-
tages, has been handicapped by lack of transit agreements with the Nigerian
Government, and by Nigerian Government actions in closing its frontiers. On
both the Cameroon and Nigerian routes, there exists the possibility of using
modern ports with adequate capacity, rail transport over much of the dis-
tance, and paved roads up to Kousseri near the Cameroon border, about 7 km
from N'Djamena.
40.       For external traffic serving the south, including most cotton-
related trade, there exists a direct and considerably shorter route from
Douala to Sarh and Moundou via Lere on the Cameroon frontier. At Lere a
slow-operating ferry presently replaces a bridge destroyed by erosion.
There is a reasonably good road between Lere and N'Gaoundere. Reconstruc-
tion of the bridge at Lere would greatly speed up traffic on this route.
Road Network
41.       Road transport is the predominant mode in Chad's transport system,
accounting for over 95% of total freight traffic. The road network consists
of over 7,300 km of roads, including about 4,600 km of national roads and
2,700 km of prefectural roads, and some 24,000 km of unclassified tracks.
Of the 4,600 km of national roads, approximately 2,300 km comprise the
principal axes, mainly in the cotton growing areas and more populated areas
of the southwestern savanna region; of these, some 1,000 km are all-weather
engineered roads and 253 km were originally paved. Most of this network has
fallen into disrepair, and is still in urgent need of rehabilitation.



- 13 -
42.       The major part of the viable network, represented by the roads
linking N'Djamena and the southern agricultural regions, is located in the
southwest savanna region, covering about 1OZ of the country, falling largely
in the triangle of N'Djamena-Lere-Sarh.  The links between N'Djamena and the
south are cut during the rainy season (June-October) by flooding. The
sparsely populated north and the Sahel region, containing about one-half the
population of the country, but with a density of less than 5 persons per
kW2, is covered mainly by desert tracks and earth roads. To develop the
agricultural and livestock potential of isolated areas in the Sahel region,
the Government attaches considerable importance to bringing some 2,800 km of
tracks, comprising the principal axes in that region, up to the level
prevailing in the savanna network.
43.       Traffic on the main road network depends on a number of ferries,
the most important of these being:  N'Djamena, Bongor, Lai, Bousso,
Hellibongo, Onoko, Noissala, Ere, Baibokoum, Panzangue, and Niou. The first
five of these ferries have been or are being replaced with finance provided
by UNDP and BDEAC. The other six remain in a rundown condition, inoperable
or continually breaking down or obsolete.  The feasibility of providing
replacements with spare parts and suitable access roads was studied as part
of the preparation of this project. This project would provide for replace-
ment of one ferry and rehabilitation of a second ferry which are related to
the ongoing road rehabilitation program and are economically justified at
the present level of traffic.
44.       N'Djamena is the focal point for the network of roads serving the
north and south and is an important distribution center for petroleum
imports, growing traffic in consumer goods, and the redistribution of
domestic food surpluses. At present external traffic (including flows
destined for southern Chad), comprising 30-40 ton trucks and fuel tankers,
arrives at the outskirts of N'Djamena and passes along the single main road
through the center of the town. A former paved road built on a dike,
bypassing much of the town, exists between the Logone bridge in the south
and the Abeche road and industrial areas to the north of the town.  This
road has been seriously damaged by lack of maintenance and is now largely
unusable. Reconstruction of this road would be included in the present
project. Another important bottleneck in the transport network is the river
crossing at Lere, on the important external supply route from Douala to
southern Chad. A 90 meter bridge, constructed in 1955, has been destroyed
by erosion. Presently traffic across the river is being assured by two
ferries for food aid and general traffic respectively. Replacement of this
bridge is included in the present project. The principal remaining gap in
the  economically  important  triangle  N'Djamena-Lere-Sarh  is  the
Guelengdeng-Bongor-Doba road, which is presently impassable. This route
needs to be rehabilitated, possibly on a new alignment, to provide an all
weather link between N'Djamena and Moundou, the industrial center of the
south. A feasibility study and detailed design of the selected alignment
for this link would be done under this project, and construction would be
considered for financing under the follow-on project.



- 14 -
Road Planning and Investments
45.       Since 1983, EDF has completed the rehabilitation of the Sarh-
Moundou-Lere road (623 km), at a cost of some US$7 million, and has provided
technical assistance for construction supervision. EDF has also agreed to
finance the rehabilitation of the N'Djamena-Guelengdeng-Sarh road (535 km)
at an estimated cost of US$8.8 million; work started in 1985. In addition,
EDF plans to finance spot improvements on the Ngoura-Mongo-Am Timan road for
about US$2.5 million. France has committed itself to the rehabilitation of
the N'Djamena-Abeche axis (756 km); work commenced in April 1983, and is
continuing at an estimated annual cost of US$1.8 million. Italy plans to
finance construction of a road around Lake Chad from Massaguet to the Niger
border, and associated secondary roads, for about US$11 million. A USAID
grant of US$27.5 million was approved in June 1985, for strengthening road
maintenance in the N'Djamena region and for rehabilitation of a 63 km road
from Djermaya to Dandi, to the north of N'Djamena (US$5.5 million). This
project is designed to give the Office National des Routes (OFNAR) the
capability of maintaining 1,600 km of road per year by 1990. but is limited
in its geographical application to the immediate area of N'Djamena.
46.       The Government has recently completed its first post-war planning
cycle (1982-85) and envisages an expanded investment program for the next
plan period (1986-88). In transportation, this program would include the
ongoing projects listed above and the rehabilitation and maintenance activ-
ities planned under the present project.  Total committed financing for road
investments over the three-year period, including this project, is estimated
at US$77.2 million. Combined with a proposed air sector investment program
of US$24.3 million and about US$2 million for rehabilitation of the Nationa'l
School of Public Works, the total transport sector investment program
appears likely to exceed US$100 million over the three-year (1986-88)
period.
47.       The sector expenditure program and financing plan will need to be
revised in 1988 to take account of the progress reached and the priority to
be attached to further road rehabilitation, maintenance, equipment purchase.
and training respectively at that time. The Government has asked the World
Bank to take the lead in donor coordination for the sector. It is proposed
to establish a project management team to assist with donor coordination and
to provide technical assistance for road management in the Ministry of
Public Works.
Institutional Capacity
48.       The Department of Land Transport of the newly created Ministry of
Transport and Civil Aviation is responsible for overall transport sector
planning and policy formulation in consultation with the Ministry of Plan-
ning. The Department presently has very limited staff and resources with
which to carry out its functions. Technical assistance is needed to rees-
tablish basic information systems and to enable this Department to play a
more active role in the sector planning and project evaluation process.
49.       The Ministry of Public Works provides the official oversight of
OFNAR and remains responsible for the planning and programming of road



- 15 -
works. This Ministry has a Division of Studies and Hydraulics which in-
cludes a subdivision for Road Studies and Highway Design. This subdivision
should be strengthened to develop a capacity for road planning, design and
the development, supervision and evaluation of pre-investment studies for
highways, the technical preparation of road plans, and the monitoring of
work execution, subject to guidelines and priorities determined in the
Ministry of Plan and the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Public
Works is also responsible for the field organization of traffic counts and
analysis of traffic flows. Technical assistance will be required to enable
the Ministry to carry out this responsibility. Facilities for soil and
materials testing at the Ecole Nationale des Travaux Public (ENTP)'s labo-
ratory in N'Djamena need to be rehabilitated and assisted to provide appro-
priate services to the Ministry of Public Works and OFNAR. Repair, operat-
ing costs and technical assistance are being provided by several donors,
including a proposed contribution from IDA for technical assistance.
The Office National des Routes and Road Maintenance
50.       The Office National des Routes (OFNAR) was created in 1984 with
responsibility for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
national road network of 7,600 km. OFNAR has taken over the divisions of the
Department of Public Works (DPW) formerly responsible for highway develop-
ment and maintenance. It has central services at headquarters in N'Djamena
and four regional subdivisions at N'Djamena, Moundou, Sarh, and Abache. A
subdivision was legally established at Mongo in 1979 but never materialized
in the field. As a result of the war, serious gaps exist in regard to
offices, road maintenance equipment, workshops and workshop equipment, spare
parts, and training facilities, particularly in the regions. Road mainte-
nance is to be carried out by the five subdivisions which will also be
responsible for minor equipment maintenance in the small subdivision work-
shops, while heavy repairs will be executed in central workshops in
N'Djamena and Sarh. OFNAR's organizational structure needs to be modernized
to separate the functions of financial control, execution and inspection,
and measures are needed to improve management efficiency and accountability.
These problems would be studied under the proposed project.
51.       The central management of OFNAR is receiving assistance under the
USAID Highway Maintenance Project approved in June 1985. The technical
assistance personnel are already in place and the training program/produc-
tion brigade which is a central feature of the USAID project will eventually
provide for basic and on-the-job training of all of OFNAR's managerial and
technical staff and equipment operators. However, the annual output of this
unit is limited by the one-year length of the course and by its operation in
the geographical vicinity of N'Djamena, and it will take many years to
provide fully trained staff for all subdivisions. The proposed IDA project
would complement the USAID contribution by providing for the rehabilitation
of offices, equipment, and workshops in the subdivisions which would be
fully mobilized during the period of the proposed project, as well as
technical assistance for on-the-job training and operation in three of the
four regional subdivisions outside of N'Djamena.   It is expected that
technical assistance to the N'Djamena subdivision will be provided by FAC.



- 16 -
52.       The Government has agreed on 3,800 km of high priority roads to be
covered by the proposed road maintenance program. For most of these roads
agreements have been reached with external donors on provision for
rehabilitation, which is a prior condition for their inclusion in the
maintenance program. Some donors have also agreed to provide external
finance for routine maintenance, but this will not become available to
assist in financing the priority program until after January 1, 1988. The
USAID project's emphasis on formal and on-the-job training means that it
will not make any contribution to routine maintenance outside the work
performed by the training brigades, which will not become operational until
early 1988. EDF plans to provide two operational brigades and operational
expenses for three years to maintain the roads it is currently rehabili-
tating, but again no effective contribution can be expected before January
1, 1988. The proposed IDA project would provide for financing the regional
capacity for maintenance of up to 2,000 km per year through 1988, when other
sources of finance may become available to assist in expanding the program
to cover the 3,800 km of priority roads.
Staffing and Training
53.       The ongoing USAID Project for Strengthening Highway Maintenance is
designed to provide trained personnel for Chad's road maintenance and
improvement works. Five expatriates will direct the recommissioning,
equipping and operation of the OFNAR equipment maintenance units and will
conduct on-the-job training for their Chadian counterparts and progressively
for all other workshop personnel. Two expatriates will create, equip and
operate a Road Maintenance Training Brigade with a 12-month training cycle
for on-the-job training of 25 personnel at a time. The technical assistance
program proposed under this project would complement the USAID program by
giving practical experience to staff not immediately scheduled for training
by USAID, and by insuring that road maintenance is carried out during the
interim period. Use of force account brigades would be complemented as
needed by use of contractors during the period of building up a minimum
capacity.
54.       The full manpower needs of OFNAR for its high priority program
have still to be established. The Government would submit to the Asso-
ciation within six months of credit effectiveness a detailed assessment of
current personnel and personnel needs, and within six months thereafter an
assessment of training requirements, in consultation with the USAID project
team and the Association.
Traffic
55.       Starting from the latest available traffic counts, dating back to
1970 and 1977, current traffic levels have been estimated using an analysis
of administrative and police records in 1985 supplemented by a short period
count in February 1986 over a limited area. On this basis, traffic levels
have been estimated for each of three groups of roads: (i) paved or former-
ly paved main roads, (ii) unpaved main roads, and (iii) secondary roads and
tracks. Traffic levels in 1986 are estimated to be lower than the levels
recorded in 1970 and 1977 for each of the three groups, which were about 100
vpd, 30-60 vpd, and less than 10 vpd respectively. The volume of goods



- 17 -
carried appears to be somewhat higher in 1985 than the average for 1970-77,
due to the unusual volume of food aid and high cotton output. If a lower
assumption is made for traffic in 1986, reflecting improved self-sufficiency
in food production and a more normal output for cotton, then the present
volume of freight traffic is estimated to be less than the average in the
pre-war years. However, it is reasonable to expect that traffic will grow
by at least 2-3% per year from 1986 onward, in line with population growth
and assuming a normal output of cash and food crops.  A growth rate of 6Z
per year is assumed from 1990 on.
Road User Charges and Cost Recovery
56.       During the period 1971-1975, the last period for which it has been
possible to find meaningful statistics, revenues from road user charges
averaged about CFAF 1.1 billion per year and were commensurate with the
Government's financial outlays in the road transport sector.  Following
several years of inaction due to war and its aftermath, the Government in
1984 established OFNAR and endowed it with road related revenues, including
its principal source of revenue, a tax on petroleum of CFAF 26.5 per liter.
OFNAR revenue is significantly less than might be expected due in part to
exemptions granted to several state companies, international food aid
operations, donor aid operations and embassy activities, in part to a low
rate of tax in relation to other sub-Saharan countries, and in part to the
ready availability of fuel through unofficial channels.
57.       In 1985, instead of the CFAF 1 billion expected by Government,
OFNAR revenues from petroleum taxes amounted to about CFAF 500 million, and
total OFNAR revenues to about CFAF 577 million. It is expected that about
the same amount will be received in 1986. Of this amount, CFAF 190 million
in 1986, CFAF 228 million in 1987, and CFAF 334 million in 1988 are commit-
ted as counterpart financing for the USAID project. OFNAR will also con-
tribute about CFAF 235 million per year to the IDA-financed project. In
addition, there is a possibility that OFNAR may have to finance operating
costs for the FAC brigade maintaining the N'Djamena-Abeche road. The annual
operating costs for routine maintenance of the 2,000 km priority network to
be maintained by 1988 are estimated at around CFAF 700 million in 1985
prices.
58.       By 1990 the annual cost of routine and periodic maintenance and
equipment replacement will amount to about CFAF 3 billion in 1985 prices for
the priority network of some 3.800 km (para. 52). Even if external donors
continue to finance the main burden of periodic maintenance and equipment
replacement, OFNAR should be expected to assume full responsibility for
routine maintenance and to make some contribution towards the cost of
periodic maintenance and equipment renewal before 1991. This calls for a
substantial increase in OFNAR's revenue.
59.       The recent dramatic decline in world market prices for petroleum
means that the Government should be in a position to capture a larger share
of the retail price. The Government has already taken some steps in this
direction but is presently assigning the increased revenues to a price
stabilization fund rather than to road maintenance. However, the existence
of an unofficial market (estimated to account for 75% of total fuel



- 18 -
consumption) and inadequacies in the system of tax administration in regard
to fuel taxes may handicap the Government's ability to benefit from the
recent decline in the absence of suitable measures to improve the system.
It will also be necessary to re-establish basic data on the size of the
vehicle fleet, total fuel consumption, the true incidence of road user
taxation, and the rates of tax needed to provide for future expenditure
needs. The issue is complicated by the possibility that Chad may develop
domestic petroleum resources and by the need for revenues to support the
general economy as well as the road sector. Under this project, the Govern-
ment would raise OFNAR revenues to CFAF 800 million for 1987, and would
consult with IDA on measures to increase revenues further in the following
years. Progressively improving enforcement of existing legislation should
be sufficient to raise OFNAR revenues from. the earmarked petroleum tax alone
to CFAF 1 billion by 1990. A study would be conducted to determine what
further measures would be appropriate, and the issue would also be addressed
during the preparation and execution of the follow-on sector project.
Road Transport Industry
60.       There is no scheduled intercity passenger road transport in Chad
nor statistics on passengers transported. In general, intercity passengers
travel atop freight transport vehicles under hazardous conditions but at
very low costs; mixed passenger-freight vehicles (taxis-brousse) also
operate over short distances in the more densely populated partb of the
country. There are four main groups of transport operations: the Coopera-
t1-,e des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT), the Compagnie Cotonniare du Tchad
(Cotontchad), the UNDP managed transport fleet of the Emergency Food Program
(para. 38), and a small number of enterprises which provide for their own
limited needs. The last group is not significant.
61.       The Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT), an association
of private truck owners, has a de jure monopoly of all internal and external
public transport activity in Chad, except for the domestic transport op-
erations of Cotontchad and a small number of other enterprises. Small
shipments on the domestic market are de facto not controlled by CTT.
Following the war, the activities of CTT have improved with the number of
active members of CTT rising from 247 in 1982-83 to 382 in July 1985, and
the number of vehicles from 210 (with a capacity of 6,200 tons) at the end
of May 1982, to 581 trucks (with a capacity of 16,700 tons) and 108 tankers
(with a capacity of 3,427 m3) at the end of July 1985. Tonnage transported
has increased in the same proportions, with an estimated 150,000 tons of dry
cargo moving in 1985. Because of the aging, rundown truck fleet, and the
difficult, almost impassable road conditions in the interior, most of CTT's
operating capacity has been concentrated on external transport over the
paved roads of the Cameroon route from N'Gaoundtre to N'Djamena in 1984 and
1985. The present system does not provide efficient or equitable transport
services to meet the needs of Chad's population. Under this project, action
would be taken to analyze the CTT monopoly and to restructure the regulatory
system, with special attention to systems of pricing and freight allocation.
62.       Cotontchad is a majority-government-owned company providing
exclusive services to cotton farmers in the southwest, carrying most import-
ed inputs, and arranging for the collection of raw cotton, delivery to the



- 19 -
ginneries and cottonseed processing plants, and then shipment to the export
and domestic markets. It is a relatively efficient, self-contained opera-
tion with its own workshops in Moundou, Sarh and Pala, and a spare parts
inventory.  Cotontchad presently operates 130 15-ton trucks, 30 25-ton
tractor-trailers, and 60 25-ton trucks. Under the proposed restructuring
program for the cotton sector, Cotontchad will soon divest itself of at
least part of its fleet.
63.       The lack of organization and transport capacity of the Government
after the yar, and of CTT with its limited and 3bsolescent truck fleet,
prompted the U.N. Emergency Program to undertake increased responsibility
for the management, transport and distributior. of emergency food aid. By
the end of December 1985, the truck fleet of UNDP/OPE and FAO/Italy avail-
able for the emergency food aid program included approximately 191 trucks of
15 to 35-ton capacity, and 150 trucks of 8 to 12-ton capacity, all new and
well maintained, with a supporting network of workshops and stores, and an
organization to provide spare parts and replacements, with recourse to air
freight where needed. These trucks are provided by various independent
organizations (UNDP/OPE, FAO/OSRO, CARE TCHAD, WFP), but services are
co-ordinated by UNDP. This fleet of trucks, supplemented by vehicles made
available by CTT, Cotontchad, CARE, etc., worked in conjunction with
Cameroon Railways to supply an average of over 20,000 tons of food aid per
month between April and August 1985. Cameroon Railways provided two block
trains of 30 wagons delivering 600 tons from Douala to N'Gaoundere every
other day. The effective carrying capacity of these groups is now estimated
at 30,000 tons per month between N'Gaound6r6 and N'Djamena, including
distribution in Chad.
64.       A number of factors have impeded the efficient development of the
trucking industry. The lack of coordination among shippers, carriers, and
transport intermediaries and an imbalance between exports and imports has
resulted in low truck fleet utilization (around 50Z load factors) and high
unit costs. The regulated road transport tariffs, established in 1974 and
revised only in 1984, do not correctly reflect road operating costs on
individual routes.  Liberal import policies and generous, provision of
transport for emergency food aid have resulted in excessive vehicle imports
in recent years, while insufficient attention is paid to the maintenance of
the truck fleet and its distribution.
65.       A wide range of issues remain to be resolved relating to the
disposition of the U.N. transport fleet and the Cotontchad fleet, the role
of CTT, government regulation of the industry, and the provision of credit
and technical assistance.  In addition, the role of the Government in
monitoring the system of freight allocation, in tariff determination and in
international negotiations, and in traffic and vehicle legislation and
enforcement raises serious issues which have been recognized for many years,
but are not yet resolved. A study to be conducted under the proposed
project (para. 84) would systematically examine these issues, specifically
including pricing and freight allocation, and technical assistance would be
provided to start implementing agreed measures to resolve them. These
issues would also be addressed under the follow-on project.



- 20 -
Domestic Contracting Industry
66.       The domestic contracting industry is at an early state of devel-
opment.  A small number of contractors deal mainly  irith building
construction, although an additional number of small contractors carry out
building repairs and other minor works. During the proposetd project,
efforts would be made to determine the willingness and capacity of small
contractors to do road maintenance works with labor-intensive methods and to
evaluate the need for possible training and technical and financial assis-
tance to enable small contractors to participate in road rehabilitation and
maintenance works under the follow-on project.
Experience with Past Lending
67.       Bank Group assistance to Chad's transport sector thus far has been
confined to three highway projects and transport components in two other
credits:  (a)  the Rural Fund Project (Credit 664-CD, US$12 million,
December 1976) included maintenance operations on selected feeder roads
sections, and (b) the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 730-CD, US$1.9 million,
October 1977) included rehabilitation of six airstrips. The First Highway
Project (Credit 125-CD, US$4.1 million, August 1968) was geared to improving
road maintenance but was only partially successful due to severe budgetary
constraints. The Second Highway Project (Credit 490-CD, US$3.5 million,
June 1974) included: (a) a five-year program of improvement and maintenance
of cotton feeder roads; (b) a three-year interim maintenance program for
ferries; (c) a training program; (d) a program of traffic counts; and (e)
pre-investment and road transport industry studies. The project was not
fully implemented due to the severe economic and political difficulties with
which the country was confronted in the late 1970s. Taking into account the
initial delays in starting the project, the Government's general performance
under the project was regarded as satisfactory at least until the end of
1978, i.e. until the beginning of the civil war.
68.       The Third Highway Project (Credit 840-CD, US$7.6 million, Septem-
ber 1978) was initially estimated at US$52 million but was reduced to
US$21.9 million by the elimination of a road construction component and a
reduction in operating costs of the road maintenance program. The project's
main components were: support of a four-year maintenance program covering
approximately 5,300 km of unpaved roads and tracks; regravelling of about
400 km of main roads by a production brigade, which was to serve as a
vehicle for on-the-job training; a training program for staff of the
Directorate of Public Works; construction by force account of four ferry
boats; technical assistance and fellowships to strengthen: (a) the Direc-
torate of Public Works, (b) transport planning in the Directorate of Trans-
part, and (c) operations of the trucking industry; a study to prepare a
rural roads project; and completion of the improvement program for cotton
feeder roads, started under the Second Highway Project. Because of the
political situation the project, appraised in April 1977, and signed in
September 1978, never became effective. Credit 840-CD lapsed in October
1980 when the limit date for effectiveness was not further extended.



- 21 -
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
69.       This project is designed to implement an emergency program for
highway maintenance, following rehabilitation of roads in the priority
network. It has been designed to complement the efforts of other donors in
the sector and to lay the foundation for effective donor co-ordination. It
covers the first two years of a five year program intended to establish an
ongoing maintenance capacity covering the priority road network, and should
be followed up by a second project in FY89. In addition to high priority
civil works to fill gaps in the network, and the two year maintenance
program, the project would support studies and technical assistance for
restructuring OFNAR and strengthening and training staff in OFNAR and other
agencies associated with policy formulation and the development, management
and operation of transport infrastructure, in particular the Ministries of
Public Works and of Transport. The goal of the project is to develop, at
least in nucleus form by 1988, the physical and financial capacity to plan,
manage and implement a continuing program of rehabilitation and maintenance
of the high priority network. Negotiations were held in Washington on May
22-23, 1986. The Government delegation was led by Mr. Ahmed Kerim Togol,
Secretary General of the Presidency. Since the project has been identified
and appraised on an emergency basis, no Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared; however, the project file contains all Important background and
vorking papers, including draft terms of reference for technical assistance and
studies, and details of co-financing. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is
given in Annex III.
Objectives
70.       The project's specific objectives are:
(a) to develop the logistical (material and managerial) capacity
within the Office National des Routes (OFNAR) to maintain and
manage a reduced high priority road network;
(b) to safeguard the road rehabilitation works already completed
by foreign aid and for the maintenance of which no provision
has been made;
(c)  to overcome the most important obstacles to the normal use of
the road network, namely a damaged bridge, dilapidated
ferries, and an unserviceable industrial road serving
N'Djamena; and
(d) to assist in organizing the transport sector as a whole and,
in particular, the road transport sector.
71.       To pursue the above objectives, the project would finance an
emergency program covering: (a) rehabilitation and equipment of the OFNAR
subdivision offices and workshops in N'Djamena, Moundou, Sarh and Mongo;
rehabilitation of existing road maintenance equipment and supply of new
equipment; technical assistance zo the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and
OFNAR subdivisions; studies covering ;-etroleum marketing and pricing and
road user cost recovery, an organizatiLmal study of OFNAR, use of local
materials and lo,cal contractors, and preparation of follow-on projects; (b)



- 22 -
a routine maintenance program for the roads recently rehabilitated by
foreign aid, including emergency maintenance works by contract on the 623 km
Lere-Moundou-Sarh road; (c) reconstruction and maintenance of a road linking
N'Djamenals industrial district with the Cameroon border and the country's
primary road network; (d) reconstruction of one bridge and one ferry and
rehabilitation of a second ferry serving the cotton area; and (e) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Transport, including an organizational study
of the trucking industry and implementation of its recommendations.
Project Components
72.       Rehabilitation of the Logistical Capacity of OFNAR and its Subdi-
visions:  The OFNAR road maintenance su'odivision offices and workshops were
badly damaged during the civil war. The OFNAR 1985 and 1986 budgets made
provision for the most urgently needed repairs to these facilities. The
project would provide for the complete rehabilitation and re-equipment of
these buildings in the subdivisions of N'Djamena, Moundou and Sarh, and for
the construction and equipment of new buildings in the subdivision of Mongo.
73.       Most of the existing road maintenance equipment located in the
N'Djamena, Sarh and Moundou Subdivisions is still recuperable. Spare parts
for repairs will be purchased partly under the USAID project. The IDA
project would provide the remaining spare parts, workshop equipment and
tools, two man-years of technical assistance in the subdivisions of Moundou
and Sarh for rehabilitation and further maintenance of the equipment, and
supply of new equipment in order to complete at least one maintenance
brigade per subdivision. A description of the different types of road
maintenance brigade and an estimate of their annual operating costs are
included in the project file.
74.       In addition to the technical as-sistance for repairs and mainte-
nance of road c-juipment, the project would provide a technical- adviser for
two years to each of the subdivision chiefs of Moundou and Sarh, and for one
year for the subdivision chief of Mongo, and one field engineer for one year
in each subdivision of Moundou and Sarh to train the operators, drivers and
field mechanics on the job after reconstitution of the two maintenance
brigades. Technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works would also
be provided under this project, consisting of two man-years of a Project
Manager/Sector Coordinator as technical adviser to the General Director of
Public Works Administration, two man-years of an Engineer Advisor to the
Division Chief of the Division of Studies and Hydraulics in the Ministry of
Public Works, who would be responsible for timely execution of the project,
and one man-year of a geotechnical expert in order to implement a laboratory
study on the use of local soils in road construction and maintenance works.
75.       A study of the role and structure of OFNAR would be started
immediately following project effectiveness. This is designed to identify
measures to improve the technical efficiency and managerial capacity of
OFNAR and to separate the functions of financial control, execution of works
and inspection. The recommendations of the study would be reviewed with IDA
by September 1987.  The proposed project would also provide technical
assistance to begin implementing the agreed recommendations, and further
assistance would be provided under the follow-on sector credit. Provision



- 23 -
is also made for updating and implementing several engineering and laborato-
ry studies and updating other studies, including further proposals for
highway rehabilitation and possible construction works.
76.       The financial capacity of OFNAR is entirely dependent on the
Government's capacity to transfer to OFNAR revenues from earmarked taxes on
fuels and some other products related to road transport. During negotia-
tions, the Government agreed to increase OFNAR revenues from CFAF 577
million in 1986 to CFAF 800 million in 1987 with appropriate further in-
creases in succeeding years. Immediately following credit effectiveness a
study would be undertaken to analyze fuel prices, marketing and taxation and
to evaluate the prospects for increasing revenue from petroleum taxes as
well as from other sources, and to formulate measures to increase OFNAR
revenue in order to cover the needs for 1988 and later years. These pro-
posals would be reviewed with IDA before September 1987. Technical assis-
tance would be provided to assist in implementing the necessary measures, to
be completed by March 1988.
77.       Routine and Emergency Maintenance of the Priority Road Network:
Under the EDF and FAC financed projects initiated in 1983, about 900 km of
roads have been rehabilitated and other work is in progress. There has been
no provision for an immediate follow-up maintenance program. This project
would assist the Government in establishing a routine maintenance capacity
on rehabilitated parts of the priority network. The Government has agreed
that all rehabilitation and mechanical maintenance works during the project
implementation period would be concentrated on the priority network of 3,800
km, and that prior rehabilitation would be a condition for including roads
in the mechanized maintenance program.
78.       Of the 900 km of presently rehabilitated roads, about 100 km on
the Sarh-N'Djamena road are still under the contractor's responsibility and
about 200 km on the N'Djamena-Abeche road are being maintained by FAC.
However, rehabilitation of the 623 km Lere-Moundou-Sarh road was completed
more than two years ago on several sections and emergency measures are now
needed to avoid the destruction of the works completed. To take advantage
of favorable conditions toward the end of the rainy season, maintenance
works should start in August 1986. In light of the limited capacity of
OFNAR these works, for an estimated cost of US$1.7 million, can only be
carried out by a private contractor. The tender documents were prepared in
early April and bids will be submitted in June 1986 following acceptable
local competitive bidding prccedures. These procedures do not excl].e
foreign contractors, and the process is expected to attract proposals from
several firms operating in neighboring countries. Due to the pressing time
constraints, international competitive bidding is not recommended in this
case. In the interest of continuity, it may be proposed LO appoint the
consultants in charge of the preparatory study to supervise the works. The
Government has agreed that, if necessary, OFNAR, which has the required
liquidity of funds, would pre-finance initial outlays on the civil works.
The credit agreement provides for reimbursing retroactively the disbursement
percentage of these expenditures up to US$1,000,000.
79.       Meanwhile reconditioning of the maintenance equipment fleet and
purchase of new equipment and technical assistance would be undertaken in



- 24 -
order to organize a routine maintenance program by force account in the
subdivisions of N'Djamena, Sarh, Moundou and Mongo. Detailed estimates of
the annual maintenance costs for the priority network are included in the
project file. The needs for new equipment have been estimated taking into
account the fact that periodic maintenance works would be carried out mainly
by private contractors and that OFNAR may ledse equipment to small local
contractors for routine maintenance.
80.       Overcoming the Main Obstacles to the Normal Use of the Road
Network: The Live Aid/Band Aid Foundation, presently based in London, has
agreed to finance the reconstruction of the Lere bridge and contracts have
already been awarded for the civil works and their supervision. However,
the access roads to this bridge remain to be financed for an estimated
amount of CFAF 200 million. These roads would be financed by IDA under the
project. Of the six ferries for which the Government requested financing,
replacement or rehabilitation of two is economically justified at present
levels of traffic. The proposed project would therefore provide for the
supply of one 40 ton ferry at Onoko and spare parts for the overhaul of a
second ferry at Mbissala, and construction of ferry access roads.
81.       It is proposed under this project to improve the passage of heavy
commercial traffic linking the industrial district of N'Djamena with the
CGameroon border and the priority road network. Two possible solutions for
this improvement have been considered, either by rehabilitating and
strengthening the urban route presently used by a high volume of traffic, or
by rehabilitating a bypass road which is now completely out of service. The
bypass road would be less costly and could be completed In a shorter
timeframe. The Government confirmed at negotiations the choice of the
bypass alignment. Engineering design of the selected solution and imple-
mentation of the works would be part of this proposed project.
82.       The project would also include a detailed technical and economic
study of rehabilitation works for the Guelengdeng-Bongor-Moundou Road, in
preparation for the next highway project. The Government confirmed at
negotiations that the Terms of Reference for these and all other studies to
be carried out with project financing would be agreed with IDA and that the
Government would consult with IDA on actions to be taken to implement study
rewommendations.
83.       Improving National Capacity to Manage and Operate the Transport
Industry: To address the need for strengthening the technical capacity of
the General Directorate of Transport (DGT) in the Ministry of Transport,
the Project provides for both technical assistance and technical upgrading
of local staff. A Transport Economist assigned as Adviser to the General
Director for a two-year period and a Systems Analyst for one year to create
a sector databank would constitute the permanent technical assistance staff.
Provision is also made for twenty additional man-months for short-term
specialists in analysis of vehicle operating costs, tariff determination,
legal aspects of transport, regulations, transit operations, technical
inspections of vehicles, and other specialized tasks. Several fellowships
for training abroad of the medium-level local staff and computer specialists
are also included in the project.



- 25 -
84.       The Government has agreed to review in July 1986 with UNDP and IDA
representatives the recent UNDP-financed study of the options for transfer
to Chadian control of the UNDP-uanaged fleet of trucks used for the emergen-
cy food aid program. These options could include: (a) sale to the private
sector in Chad; (b) sale to the private sector outside of Chad; and (c)
transfer of all or part of the fleet to government institutions with jus-
tified needs. This review should lead to a program to turn the agreed
recommendations into action. Existing studies concerning the operations of
the trucking industry and civil aviation would be updated and/or reviewed by
the technical assistance provided to DGT. In addition, to improve the
structural organization of transport services, the proposed project would
finance a study of the role, managerial structure and procedures, including
freight allocation and pricing, and logistical needs of the trucking indus-
try. The purpose of this study would be to liberalize sector operations in
order to make them more efficient. The Government agreed at negotiations to
undertake such a study within three months of credit effectiveness, to
review its recommendations with IDA by March 1988, and to prepare promptly
an Action Plan for implementation of the agreed recommendations. Technical
assistance would be provided to assist in implementing the most urgent
recommendations of this study, and full implementation of the agreed Action
Plan would be an integral part of the follow-on sector project.
85.       Donor Coordination:  In addition to its supervisory role, IDA has
been asked by the Government and the other donors to take the lead in
coordinating investment planning and maintenance in the transport sector.
Consequently the Project Manager/Sector Coordinator (para. 74) would ex-
change information on a regular basis with all foreign missions in Chad
developing programs in the transport sector. The Sector Coordinator would
submit to the General Director of Public Works and to IDA an annual report
containing findings and recommendations to improve the general efficiency of
foreign aid in the road sector. The report would review progress over the
past year, identify needs and suggest changes where necessary in project
design or implementation. The Sector Coordinator would also review the
annual budget and work program of OFNAR in order to ensure that all the
Government's obligations resulting from donor financed projects are taken
into account in forward planning.
86.       The Government plans to convene a donor meeting in early 1987 to
discuss progress in its road sector program of rehabilitation and mainte-
nance.  This meeting would be held as soon as possiDle following completion
and internal Government review of the preparation report for the follow-on
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. The Government would distri-
bute at the same time, for discussion, a transport sector memorandum, and it
is expected that a first report of the Project Manager/Sector Coordinator
might also be available. Subject to experience with the first sector
review, this meeting might be repeated at yearly intervals.
Project Costs
87.       Project costs have been estimated in end-1985 prices based on
preliminary estimates made by the Consultants in charge of the preparatory
study.



- 26 -
Project Cost Estimates
CFAF Million                   US$ million
Foreign    Local      Total    Foreign   Local   Total
A.      Restoring Road Maintenance
Capacity
Buildings                        403       217        620       1.1      0.6      1.7
Equipment & Spare Parts          907       101      1,008      2.5       0.3      2.8
Technical Assistance (MPW)        866       96        962       2.4      0.3      2.7
B.      Road Maintenance Operations
Emergency (contract)             281       151        432      0.8       0.4      1.2
Routine (force account)          515       277        792       1.4      0.8      2.2
C.      Closing Critical Gaps in
the Network
Lere Bridge & Access Roads        325      175        500      0.9       0.5      1.4
Ferries & Access Roads           141        60        201      0.4       0.2      0.6
N'Djamena Industrial Road       1,388      463      1,851       3.8      1.3      5.1
D.      Institutional Development
Technical Assistance (MTCA)      357        40        397       1.0      0.1      1.1
Studies                          764        85        849      2.1       0.2     2.3
Training                           49        5         54      0.2       0.0      0.3
Total Base Costs              5.996    1,670       7,666     16.6       4.7    21.3
Physical Contingencies          899       251      1,150      2.5       0.7      3.2
Price Contingencies           1,232       666      1,898      3.5       1.8     5.3
Total Project Cost      8 127    2 587    iO^714       22.6       7.2    29.8
On this basis the cotal cost of the project is estimated at US$29.8 million
equivalent. Of this, approximately US$22.6 million (76%) would be foreign
exchange costs. The Government would exempt from local taxes all construc-
tion, purchase, consultant and technical assistance contracts exceeding
US$300,000 equivalent each.  A 15% allowance has been made for physical



- 27 -
contingencies; price contingencies were calculated on the basis of the
following schedule:
Price Contingenci-s (in 2)
1986    1987      1988       i989      1990      1991     1992
Local          10        9         9          9         9        9         9
Foreign         7.2      6.8       6.8        7.0       7.1      4.0       4.0
88.       Live Aid/Band Aid Foundation (LBF) has already committed itself
for the financing of the Lere Bridge, a contractor has been selected, and
construction is under way. Therefore, no cross-effectiveness is needed.
The final cost of the bridge has been estimated at US$0.97 million equi-
valent plus contingencies; LBF will thus participate in project financing
'for a total amount of US$1.3 million equivalent. The African Development
Fund (AfDF) has been asked to contribute US$7.2 million to finance the
construction of the road linking the N'Djamena industrial district to the
Cameroon border and the main road network. While this road would contribute
significantly to the reduction of transport costs, it is not directly linked
to the rest of the project and a delay in implementation would have no
significant effect on execution of the rest of the project. Consequently,
cross-effectiveness is not required in this case either. LBF and AfDF
participation would be parallel financing. AfDF credits are made on terms
equivalent to IDA's, and the LBF participation is grant funding.  The
Government of Chad would contribute to project costs an amount of CFAF 235
million in each of two calendar years for a total of US$1.3 million equi-
valent, representing 5% of the building construction and workshop equipment
costs, 20% of the road maintenance equipment rehabilitation and maintenance
costs, and 20% of the road maintenance operating expenditures. The remain-
ing components, including road and bridge construction, equipment purchase,
access roads, ferries, technical assistance and studies, would be 100%
externally financed.
89.       Total external financing would amount to US$28.5 equivalent, of
which IDA would contribute US$20.0 million. A portion of the external
financing would be used to help cover local costs. The financing plan is
summarized in the table below (in US$ million equivalent):



- 28 -
Local    Foreign      Total
LBF           0.3         1.0           1.3
AfDF          2.0         5.2           7.2
Government    1.3           -           1.3
IDA           3.6        16.4          20.0
7.2        22.6         29.8
=mm
At negotiations, the Government agreed to these financing arrangements.
Project Implementation and Present Status
90.       Given the fragility of Chadian institutions in the transport
sector, this project would be implemented largely through technical assist-
ance, consultants and contractors. Considerable progress has already been
made on implementation of critical components such as the Lere Bridge
(already under construction) and emergency maintenance of Sarh-Moundou-Lere
(tender documents prepared and bids to be submitted in June). Terms of
reference for technical assistance to OFNAR have been prepared, and through
the proposed prefinancing arrangements, additional work could be undertaken
before the credit becomes effective. The execution of routine maintenance
works by force account would begin in early 1987. Tender documents for a
replacement ferry would be ready by March 1987 and the ferry should be in
place by mid-1988. The preliminary study of the N'Djamena industrial road
conducted in preparation for this project would be complemented by a full
engineering design study, which would be completed by June 1987. The actual
works (covering less than 15 km) would be completed by the end of 1988. A
project implementation schedule is shown in Annex IV. This schedule was
discussed and agreed with the Government at negotiations.
91.       The emergency actions and studies to be undertaken under this
project are also intended to lay a firm foundation for a follow-on sector
project, currently scheduled for FY 89. The technical assistance to OFNAR,
the Ministry of Public Works, and the Ministry of Transport would assess and
to the extent possible strengthen the capacity of these institutions for
long-range planning and managemant of the road network. The special studies
on cost recovery and organization of the transport industry would address
key issues which should form part of the policy dialogue associated with the
forthcoming sector credit. The road maintenance program itself has been
conceived as the first part of a longer term program enabling OFNAR to
assume responsibility for the entire priority road network. Successful
execution of the rest of this longer term program would be the principal
feature of the follow-on project.
92.       Because of the present weakness of both sector institutions and
sector knowledge, this project includes a high proportion of technical
assistance. The project provides for 11 staff-years of technical assistance
in three OFNAR subdivisions to repair equipment, supervise workshop con-
struction, and build up routine road maintenance capacity; five staff-years
of technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works to develop road



- 29 -
network planning and management capacity and to assure donor coordination;
and the equivalent of six staff-years (part of which is in short term
expertise) to the Ministry of Transport to develop a data base and to
address sector policy issues. To support this, the project contains specif-
ic studies to investigate and quantify major issues in the sector. An
important feature of this technical assistance input is the support it would
give to training of Chadian staff, both by releasing some staff for training
abroad (for which fellowships are provided under the project), and by
on-the-job training provided to counterparts who remain in place. Although
technical assistance costs are expected to be high in Chad because of the
difficulties of logistics, use of volunteers is not recommended for this
project, because of the major management and training responsibilities
assigned to the technical assistance staff. Volunteer technical assistance,
however, may well be suitable for the follow-on project. A detailed list of
planned technical assistance and studies is given in Annex V.
Procurement and Disbursement
93.    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table
(amounts include contingencies). Amounts in parentheses represent IDA
financing:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
ICB           LCB            Other         Total
A.   Buildings                 --            2.4(2.3)         --           2.4(2.3)
B.   Bridge, ferries,
access roads              --           0.4(0.4)        2.3(1.0)       2.7(1.4)
C.   Paved roads             7.2(0.0)           -                          7.2(0.0)
D.   Road maintenance                        1.7(1.3)       3.1(2.5)       4.8(3.8)
E.   Equipment and
spare parts           2.7(2.7)           --           1.2(1.0)        3.9(3.7)
F.   Studies, TA &             --              --          8.8(8.8)        8.8(8.8)
Training
9.9(2.7m          4. 5        15     . 132    29.85O0)0
Technical assistance, consulting services, and all contracts for works and
supplies financed with the proceeds of the IDA credit would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Since this is an emergency project, the



- 30 -
contract for initial emergency road maintenance (US$1.7 million) would be
awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA
and would be pre-financed by the OFNAR budget if there is any delay in
credit effectiveness. Construction/rehabilitation of buildings and ferries,
works which are small and scattered, will also be procured through LCB.
Routine maintenance works will be carried out by force account as OFNAR's
capabilities permit; should OFNAR output fall short of requirements, the
balance would be made up through works by contract awarded through LCB. The
IDA-financed contracts for major purchases of equipment and spares would be
awarded through international competitive bidding. Minor items of spares,
and fuels and lubricants for force account works, would be procured locally
through shopping. The Government will submit to IDA for prior review all
contract documents and awards of a value exceeding US$100,000; this would
cover at least 80Z of IDA financing for the project.
94.       A revolving fund of US$2,000,000 equivalent is proposed to cover
project disbursements for IDA financing. The Government agreed at negotia-
tions to open and maintain a special account in CFAF for this purpose. The
revolving fund would be replenished upon submission of withdrawal applica-
tions by the Government. The minimum withdrawal application amount would be
US$100,000 equivalent.  Disbursements would be made against full documenta-
tion for civil works executed by contract, equipment purchase, and consul-
tant services, and against statements of expenditures for force account
works. The Government also agreed to establish a special account for the
Government share of investment costs for the project. An initial deposit of
CFAF 50 million in this account would be a condition of credit effective-
ness. The special account would be replenished quarterly by Government.
95.       IDA funds would be disbursed to cover 80% of eligible expenditures
for equipment rehabilitation, road maintenance operating costs by force
account or road maintenance works by contract; 95% of eligible expenditures
for building construction, furnishings, and workshop equipment; and 100% of
eligible expenditures for access roads, road maintenance equipment purchase,
technical assistance, and studies.  During negotiations the Government
confirmed that 20% of the equipment rehabilitation and road maintenance
operating costs and 5% of building costs will be financed by OFNAR. The
disbursement profile shown in this report (p. iii) represents experience
with highway projects in West Africa.
Reporting and Auditing
96.       The Ministries of Public Works and of Transport would submit for
IDA review in April and October of each year reports on project expenditures
and progress, annual reports by October of each year on sector expenditures
and planned investments, and a final report on the implementation and
experience of the project within six months after the credit closing date.
The project accounts would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA
whose report would be submitted to IDA within six months following the end
of each fiscal year. Statements of expenditures would be subject to the
standard semi-annual auditing requirements and would be submitted to IDA by
April and October of each year.



- 31 -
Economic Evaluation
97.       The dilapidated condition of the road network and the lack of
physical and organizational capacity for road maintenance are serious
constraints to Chad's post-war recovery and the regeneration of economic
growth. Reduced road transport costs are a vital precondition for restored
health in the agricultural sector. External donors funded the civil works
and technical assistance needed to rehabilitate over 900 km of high priority
roads which have been completed and a further 1,300 km of roads on which
works are in progress. However, no maintenance has yet been undertaken on
600 of the 900 km of completed roads, which are now deteriorating, and
proposals for maintenance operations financed by other donors will not
become effective until 1988. The prime object of this project is to fill
the gap as an emergency measure, and to complement and support the institu-
tion and capacity-building activities of other donors.
98.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is 21%.  This
rate underestimates the true value of the project, which would establish a
foundation for significant additional economic improvements in subsequent
years. The analysis takes into account the quantifiable benefits from
vehicle operating cost savings and costs avoided in subsequent rehabilita-
tion and periodic maintenance.  Project costs include directly related
technical assistance on the main physical components of the project, 50% of
the costs of offices, buildings, workshops and workshop equipment (a very
conservative measure of the amortization of these assets in the two-year
time slice of the project), and 50% of the remaining technical assistance.
Purchase of new road construction equipment and spare parts is not included
in the ERR calculation as these are reflected in the unit costs of rehabi-
litation and routine maintenance. With a 20% increase in project costs and
a l0  reduction in benefits, the ERR remains an acceptable 12%.  Each
component is economically justified by itself, as shown below:
Percent
Component                          ERR
Routine Maintenance of 2,000 km                     46
(including Technical Assistance to OFNAR
and 50% of Building and Equipment Costs)
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
of N'Djamena Industrial Road                        16
Bridge and Access Roads                             12
Ferries and Access Roads                            59
Studies and Technical Assistance                   non-
(excluding OFNAR) and 50% of Building          quantifiable
and Equipment Costs



- 32 -
Project Benefits
99.       The project would help to re-establish normal trade flows and
would support restructuring of the cotton sector through significant re-
ductions in transport costs. The Government would also be an important
beneficiary of the project, as the routine maintenance of rehabilitated
roads would reduce subsequent costs of rehabilitation and periodic mainte-
nance, thus minimizing future demands on external aid resources and domestic
funds. Vehicle operating cost savings would accrue predominantly to private
transport operators, and to the future owner/operators of the UNDP Emergency
Program transport fleet. However, the benefits would only be fully realized
when the majority of the priority road network is brought to the same
minimum standards. These savings should be passed on to producers and
consumers as the local transport industry becomes more competitive.  The
project would have a substantial institutional impact on OFRAR, on the
Ministries of Public Works and Transport, and on the trucking industry, by
creating the management and technical skills necessary for managing the road
sector and increasing productivity and competitiveness. Finally, the
project would be an important vehicle in further strengthening coordination
among donors and improving future investment choices in this important
sector.
Project Risks
100.      The threat of military activity in the north and some political
unrest in isolated spots in the south continues but has been largely con-
tained. The 2.000 km of high priority roads and the other physical compo-
nents of the project are located in areas unlikely to be affected by politi-
cal unrest. Although the general economic situation and depressed cotton
prices could constrain the rate of recovery in economic activity and thus
in the volume of traffic movements, the levels of traffic postulated for
1986 and the expected growth of 2.5% per year have been set well below the
average levels of pre-war years and benefits have been conservatively
estimated. The most important risks would be an increase in project costs
and/or shortfalls in the projected absorptive capacity of the institutions
concerned, resulting in delayed project implementation. However, even with
a possible increase in total project costs of 20%. including technical
assistance, the ERR would remain above 15%. The risks arising from possible
limits on administrative and executive capacity are addressed through
technical assistance, job training provided under the project, and possible
recourse to private contractors. Nevertheless, implementation of the
project will require intensive monitoring and supervision by IDA staff.



- 33 -
PART V. RECOMMENDATIONS
101.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit,
Attachments                                    A. W. Clausen
June 2, 1986                                   President
Washington, D.C.



- 34 -                                                 ANNEX I
T A A L S    34                                   PACK I Page  I,of  6
CHAD                   - SOCtIAL IDICATORS DATA SNHlT
CHAD                                Br&Mlic  GRiours (CUMUOD AWRSS  1i
mHDST                    (tMOT khECk? SST4Atl) fl
I_C SIN?       LOW INCOM AFRICA         lU0D  1006
i 960!     I        STINAr          SUUTH OF SANANA       AFRICA S. uF-SAhARA
A     (ToBA. El. -)
ToTAL                             1234.0     1214.0      1254.0
ACRICULTURAL                      440.0       479.U       411.O
GN  FU  CAPITA (UU)                     ..         .. ..                       238.8                    lu3.S
I3INT ODUSTIOflE MUR CAPITA
(KILfRAfh Of OIL EQUIVALENT)        b.0        16.0        22.0              62.3                     S6u.S
POPULATION.HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   30b4.0     3052.0      *7S9.0
URBAN PFULATIUN (I OP TOTAL)        7.0        11.4        20.1              20.1                      32.0
POPULATION PROECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                            7.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                             22.0
POPULATION !0ItEJUNl                                      L.a
POPUIATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                        2.4        2.8         3.7              33.2                      05.1
PER SQ. IOt. ACRI. LAND           6.4         7.6         9.7             112.J                     124.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTSRE (C)
0-14 IRS                         39.8       41.3        40.2              46.0                      45.0
15-64 YRS                        Sb.7        55.1        56.l              50.8                    5.5
65 AJND ABOVE                      3.4        3.5         3.5               2.9                       2.?
POPULATION GROWrH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              1.4        1.8         2. 1              2.8                       2.9
URBAN                             6.5         0.6         b.4               6.4                       5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THUUS)       40.0        40.9        42.4              47.2                      e7.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TNOU5)       26.5        24.6        20.6              17.8                     lS.0
GROSS REPRODUCTIUN RATE              2.5        2.b         2.7               3.3                       3.2
FAKlLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..
USERS (Z OF HRRIED WSN)           ..          ..          1.0 e             3.3                      6.4
-W SAD UImTC
INDEC OP FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      117.0       98.0        93.0              63.3                      82.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (I UP RZQUIHMNTS)       98.0        91.0        68.0              87.7                     95.5
PROTEINS (CRAM PER DAY)          76.0        69.0        51.0              51.9                     55.4
OF IWICK ANDIAL AND PULSE        22.0       19.0        18.0 IC          13.7                       16.5
CHILD (ACGS 1-4) DEATH RATE        52.0        42.0        29.0              23.1                      lb.6
REALSE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       39.2       40.1        43.2              47.8                     52.0
INFANT HDRT. RATE (PER THOUS)     194.5       172.5       142.0             119.5                    108.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATEe (170)
TOTAL                                        27.0        30.0 Id           27.1                      42.4
URBAN                             ..         47.0        30.0 72           63.5                     67.3
RURAL                             ..         24.0        3U.U Id           19.3                     35.6
ACCESS TO EXCINETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          1.0         ..               26.5                      2.9
URAN                              ..          7.0         *-               65.4                     57.7
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..               20.8                     20.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        72950.0    61900.0    47640.0 /a          27901.7                  11791.7
POP. PER NURSI.G PERSON          5840.0 If  5360.0       3S60.0            330S.4                   2459.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1430.0      760.0      1270.0 I.         1273.6                    wSl.L
URBAN                           220.0 It   280.0        390.0 7           428.2                     3b6.8
RURAL                           1320.0 77   1870.0     1900.0 7          3292.5                   4371.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..        17.1         ..                ..                      27.2
Noggin
AVERAE SIZE or HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                             ..          4.5         ..
RURAL                             ..          5.6 j       .
AVERSE NO. OP PERSONS IROCK
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAH                              ..         ..
RUAL                               ..         ..
PRCENTAGE OF SIELLIN  WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
UrBA                               ..         ...
RURAL                             ..          ..



-   35  -                                                 ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 6
T     A     A L C U                                   PACE 2
CHAD                    - SOCIAL INDtCATORS OATA SHmCT
CRAD                                    BPrrNNCE GROUPS (WCIGHTED AVERACES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTUIATE) /b
1RECENT         LOW IIOUNC AFRICA           MIDOLE INCOME
196n/b      i b197      ESTIMAT,/b     SOUTa' OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
DUCAtTWU
ADJUSTED CNROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYt  TOTAL                     17.0         35.0        35.0 lh             67.8                       95.7
HALE                     29.0        52.0         51.0 7F             77.6                      100.0
FEMALE                    4.0        17.0         19.0 7w             54.9                       83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     0.4          2.0         3.0 /h             13.5                       17.3
MALE                      1.0         4.0          6.0 r7             17.9                       25.0
PFMALE                    0.1         0.3          1.0 W               9.1                       14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)           21.0          9.7         3.3 lh             13.2                        5.9
PUPIL-TCACHER RATIO
FRIMARY                             86.0 /f      65.0        61.0 lh             44.9                       41.1
SECONDARY                           21.0         24.0              -             27.4                       25.5
coa_rr
PASSENGER CARSITNOUSAND POP            0.6 -        1.1                             3.8                       20.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TROUSAND POP           2.0         16.4        25.6                55.8                      107.8
TV RECEIVERS/TROUSAND POP                                                           2.6                       20.8
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GCENTRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               0.2          0.2         0.3                 5.0                       18.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA        0.1          0.4 Ii      5.8 /c              0.5                        0.4
LA  -
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           1197.0       1377.0      1805.0
FEMALE (PERCEMN)                    23.2         22.8        23.7                34.2                       36.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.0         90.0        85.0 /d             77.5                       54.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          4.0         7.0 7Wd             9.7                       18.3
PAR ICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TLTAL                               39.1         37.7        37.7                39.3                       36.8
MILE                                61.4         59.3        58.6                50.9                       47.1
uEtALE                              17.8         16.9        17.6                28.1                       27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1          1.2         1.2                 1.3                        1.3
KC13  DISERISTIOr
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS            21.5
HIGHEST 22 of HOUSEHOLDS            44.8
LOWEST 202 OP HOUSEHOLDS             7.7
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS            19.3
Urn ROM
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LZEVL (USS PER CAPITA)
URB..                                                        68.0 /I            165.5                      590.7
RURAL                                                        56.0 We             95.0                      275.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                           113 1                      545 6
RURAL                                                        48.0 Is             67.6                      201.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTe
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (:)
URBAN                                                        30.0 /a             36.6
RURAL                                .56.o W                                     61.8
NOr AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
la  The group enrages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mens. Coverage of countri-e
smong the indrcator, depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977;  /d 1980;  /a 1978;  /f 1962;  Ig 1965;  /b 1976;  i 1968.
JUNC, 1985



- 36-                                         ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 6
|                                            1     1nwmo~s ou SOCIAll WNIICA1N
Noam AlinBtINdtlaamdrn l . mommaWIyjmdpdhmt tauhtaivemadbkhodmebobsotedthtbteymy matheifwfaualy
compaale bam       lafth a d    _mdud  ddom ad  umps wsd by dlUkt omari. in coltln tin dat. Ih da am mnaenm  ul so
dasibs em  of m_iu4d. ladlca. mmd. ad chactvamtein major dilmume bovwom coumtuIu.
Thw do-mm P09 Ua (I) th  -mo ui y pomP of the subm cavutry sad (2) a ceoutry Swup with oonewr*t hiabel bvmp  me the couoty
Prupoaltheub heaovotny(puptfar iIi lamOdapanmpawbw 'Midde tameN Nnth Ahrica. WMiMeEmis chasm ha woraqr
aCkIoml laln.th  Ie          o- da sh avO  6 am popea_e w_Utd uil_hede mem for mci ldoor and _m  only when mawaty
of th covaies in a Voup h1 da far ta Il-aw. S1m the nove  ag efot_ris aoeo  the indkua d_odak   e m    avalb of dru and Fa sot uniann
caution mumt ecawdd In ratg ale   we oam  inediawr to amother Thee avrm  mm nly umfin emparIg dI value of ae indiator ast a une amas
sg  oumy *nd ofream goPL
AtEA (thousand sq.kin.)                                       CAr dkh Ran (par tShwmd)-Number of live births i the year
TetL-Total surface area compniing land ara and inand watr     Per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Chr D.ah Rae (per th..mO-Number of deaths in the year
Agvfeuha-Estimate of agcutural arse used tenporrily or        per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemanently for crops, putreau  market and kitchen prdens or to  GCh Rep_dwuo. Ra.--Average number of daughters a woman
lie farlow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her normal reproducive pciiod if she exprences
praent age-specific rertiity rmte usually five-year average ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capita estimates at current       in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market pnes, calculted by sne conversion method as World                             rsAccan, A_    (th.indt)-Annual num-
B,ank Atlws (198143 basis): 1983 data.                        ber of accptorn of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMTIlON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family pling progam.
consumption of commercial prnmary energy (coal and lignite,   FWI* Ph=*o4ii  (pirceni (fmwi*d oinim -The pereen-
petroleum, natural aS and bydro-, nudear and geothermal edec  tage of married women of child-bearing age who ar prcticing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose busbans are practing any form of contracepton. Women
1982 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are generly women aged 15-49. although for
some countris contraceptive ue is ne asured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groupL
Tend P.p.Iiea, Mid-Yew (thosaa)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
1adx .f&oeAFreiuie Pff Ce*a (1160-7Z - 1W0)-Index or per
Urban           (p.t.w of rwada-Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodies. Producion
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excldes animal feed and seed for asriculture. Food comnmodities
ability of data am   countries 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.     include primay commodities (e.g. sugrcane instead of sugar)
hpaaims P,#ecd.m                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Ppdarion in year 2000-The projection of population for 200D.  excuded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separtely. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugane end sugar bee  livestock, and
total population by ageand sx, fertility rat  mortality rate  and  livesock products. Aggepte production of each country is based
international migraion in the bae year 1980, these pmeter     on national average producer price vieights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year itervals on the basis of generaized  1932 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Aw CWe SWp  of CaWrs Gp         tfp   fwqmw  M)u-Cormput-
Sraiumary popuadrtn-Is one in which age- and sex-speofic mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously emmained at replaement klvel    tion, imports les exports and changes in stock. Net suppLies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a populati  the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and loss  in distnribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estinated by FAO based on physiokgacal needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the prjected charactdistics of  and bealth considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sx distribution orpopulation, and allowing 10 pecent for
rate to repiacemnent levd.                                    waste at household keveL 1961, 1970 and 1912 data.
Popudarin Momentnn-Is the tendency for population growth to   Phr Capita So*,  of Pted. (pgo  per day)-Protein content of
continuc beyond the time that repbcement-level fertlity has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all counties establshed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year  is measurd as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year tr gven the asumption that fertility remaLins at replace-  should be animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populo Dhamsry                                                averge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqtm.-Mid-year popuation per square kilometer (l00 hw-    Supply, 1961 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970, and 1983 dat                Pr CaWha ProIa Sapipy Frm Axa ead Prle--Protein   supply
Per sq.kg. agrkwitural land-Computed as above for agricultual  of food derived from aninub and pulse in grams per day; 1961465.
land only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 dat.                          :970 and 1977 data.
hP.utaim  Age Snuctw  (pireoru)-Children (0-14 yenrs), work-  CNN (qa 1-4) Det Rate (per h.uand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 yeas and over) percentae  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 da               group in a given year For most developing countries data deived
PopuleiSm wh RAe (perce u)-wal-Annua growth rtes of          from life tbles 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
totl mid-year populaon for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 197083.      HEALIH
Popuadi  Growth Rae   p      ---)wm-Annual growth rates          e Expectwy a Alh (ywsp-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 195060. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if preailig panerns of mortality for al people



- 37                                           ANNEX  r
--jrrof 6
Page 4o 
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire;  PIfteacher Ratio - primary. and sreondar-Toual students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 date,                                     rolled in primary and secondary level divided by numbers or
Itu    M   o*ft  Rate (per teheaud$-Number or infants who die  teashen in the corresponding levels
before reaching one )ar of age per thousnd live birth in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPIION
Aces to Se  We (rem  of ppt -ti'                h    ad        Asegr Can (per thosad p.pulationj-Passenger Lars com-
rira-Number of peope (t   urb  and rural) with resonable      prise motor cars seating less than cight persons: excludes ambul-
accss to safe water supply (includes treated surface water or  ances. hearses and military vehices.
unttated but uncont ilnated water such s that from protected  *a  Receivr  (per thousad popalatn-All types of receivers
borehols, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their resc-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or sandpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
loated not or than 200 mneters from a houe mnay be con idered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent yearn may
as being within reaonable acoass of that house. in rur l areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable accss would imply that the housewfie or member of thle  TRclun(.tae  e l   a-     eevr o  racs
houselbold do not tutve tO spend a disproportionate part of Th  a  VRecraers (pr thesiipousn-TV  receiv,ers for broadcast
in fetchid the farvtyps water aedi                            to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
ineas fethingrthe family's flte5 toens.of oq~J-r              receivers in countrics and in years when registation of TV sts was
Access to Exvcrera Diypnal (percen ofpap.latianl --total, wham,. i  fet
ad vmS-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  iespqper Circwlatia (per rhusmd poaput)u-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily genea interest newspaperC' defined as a
without treatmenL of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted prim.ily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and simiar installations.  It is considered to be tdaily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Popuon per PfysicP-Fopulation divided by number of prac-    CGNem  Amad Anedate per Capita per Year-Based on the
ting physicians qualified from a medical school at university vel.  number of tickets sold during the year including admissions to
Popalaie per NorAV Pers-Fbpulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxilaries.                      LOR FORCE
P.pulso per Hosital Bed-tar4 wram,  d rrPal-obpulation        Ttal Labor Force frhousasnd-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding arned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and pivate genalt and specialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehablitation centers HospitI are esmblishment  various countries are not comparblec 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physicia   Establishments prov-  fma  (per.mr-Fernale labor force as percntage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals  force.
however, include health and medical centers not pemanently staffed  Agriculsare(percrot4-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation anad provide a limited range  data.
or medical faciltiesm                                         Imn   y (percer)-Labor rorce in mining. construction. manu-
Admission per Hospital led-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges rom hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Aeticpatim Rat (erc     oa . ,  dfu         -Parficpation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
Avre SbE of Hou    (persW per househlfd-tretda. whaa          as percentages of total male and female population of all ages
as rorol-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 19; (. ind 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or-    participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statiscl purposes.   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Avea  Number of Pron per Rom-e-taal, srhe. ad rural-          Eenomic Dependewy Radi-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per roon in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pecentag of DweMngs with Ekdricity-toral, urban, ad real-     Peremage of Toral Dipsablncost (both in erh ad ki.dj-1
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarers as peacn-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total urban. aid rual dwellings respectively          hold incone.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adsted "Mwl fiRati                                            The following cstimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prhnary sdco  - toid. mae and femal-Gras total male and       levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aD ages at the prirnary level as percentages of  Estiaed Absolute Poverty Income Level USS per capia k-u_ban
respective primary school-age popuations. While many countries  and ruraL--Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate die plus essential
differences in country practies in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estmed Relative Poerrty Incom  Level (U per capita -uban
education, gnss enrollment may eceed 100 percnt since some    and rural-Rural relative poverty income klvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal ineome of the country. Urban level is
agt                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconday schoo - total, male andfemal-Computed as above:      living in urban areas.
secondary education requirs at last four years of approved pri-  Estimated Pbpultwi  Relaw Absolute Poverty Inome Levd (per-
mary iostmction provides genral. vocational. or teadier training  centj-uarba_ ad rral- tPrcent of population turban and rural
intructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc; correspond-  who are absolute poor.A
enc courses are generaly excluded.
Vocadona Eroleni (percent qfsecondrUv)-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepedently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 38 -
ANNEI I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS  *
6ROSS NATiONAL PRODUCT IN 1995                                              ANNUAL RATE OF BROhTH (l, constant 1977 pricesl
USS Min.      1                          1977-1982           1983-1984            1994-1995
GDP at Market Prices                    646       100
Current kcount Balance                -96.7       -13                         -4.9                   0.4               19.9
Exports of Goods, IFS                  57.8         9
Imports of 6oods, NFS                 124.0        19
OUTPUT IN 1985                                                              GOVERINENT FINANCE
Central Government
Value  Added                                                        CFAF bin.       I of 6DP
US$ Iln.      I                                                             __          _     _
1985     19B5   1975
Agriculture                             284        44
Industry                                136        21                      Current Receipts                    21.0       7.0     14.u
Services                                226        35                       Current Expenditures               26.0       9.4      16.0
Current Balance                    -5.0      -1.7     -2.0
Total                                 646       100
HONEY AND CREDIT
(billions of CFAFI                   1992     1983      1984      1985
Money and Quasi-money                  34.6      42.4     67.9      71.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector           11.9      11.0     10.5       3.6
Bani Credit to Private Sector          30.0      32.5     45.9      65.0
Honey and Quasi-money as Z SDP         15.0      18.0     23.0      24.8
Annual percentage change in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     -6.8     -4.5    -65.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     8.3     42.2      41.6
* Fiqures for 1985 are preliminary estimates. Because of the disruptive effects
of the civil war on Chad's statistical services, the figures in this annex are
incomplete and should be interpreted with caution.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                          HERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1902-95)
1983     1584      1985                                                       US$ Kin.      Z
[millions of USS)
Cotton                                     60.5        B0
Exports of Goods, NFS                   73.1    111.7       57.5                Total Merchandise Exports                  74.9       100
Imports of Goods, IFS                 -115.7   -129.4   -124.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -I             -42.6    -17.7    -66.5
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1985
Interest Payments and                                                                                                  USS KIn.
Other Factor Payoents (net)           -52.6    -62.4   -101.2
Net Transfers                           96.6      95.9      B1.1             Public & Pub. Guaranteed Debt                   136
--                 -----               Non-guaranteed Private Debt                   n.a.
Balance on Current Account              -8.6       5.9    -06.1
Total Debt, Outstanding & Disbursed            136
Direct Foreign Investment               -1.1       7.5      51.6           DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1985
Net lLT DorroNing                       -1.8      -1.0      12.2                                                           1
Short-term Capital,
Errors and Omissions                   20.1       2.6      -B.7             Public & Pub. Guaranteed Debt                   14
Exchange Guarantee                       3.2       4.9       3.6             Non-guaranteed Private Debt                   n.a.
- -- --- ---------                   -        --------------------- -----  Total Debt, Outstanding & Disbursed  14
Overall Balance                         11.8      19.7    -29.0
IBRDIIDA LENDING, December 19B5 (Kln, of US$1
IRD      IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1983     15B4      1985              Outstanding & Disbursed                        0.0     39.9
Undisbursed                                   0.0      15.5
CFAF/USS                              391.06   436.96   449.2b                                                                -----
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed                 0.0     55.4



- 40 -
ANNEX II
CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of March 31, 1986)
Amount (less cancellations) -
USS Millions
Credit                                                IDA       Undisbursed
Number     Year   Borrower      Purpose
Twelve credits fully disbursed                       29.58
489-1     1976      Chad       Irrigation             8.00          1.10
664       1976      Chad       Rural Project Funds  12.00           5.54
739       1977      Chad       Sahelian Zone          1.90          0.52
811       1978      Chad       Third Education        8.30          7.70
TOTAL now held by IDA                     59.78           14.86
of which has been repaid                   4.49
Total now outstanding                     55.29
Amount sold                   3.3
of which has been repaid      3.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA            55.29
Total undisbursed                              14.86
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
HIGHWAY MAJNTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(1) Time taken to prepare project:            3 months
(2) Project prepared by:                      Government, Consultants and IBRD.
(3) Identification:                           Through Sector Work.
(4) Appraisal Mission                         February 1986.
(5) Negotiations                              May 1986
(6) Planned date o; effectiveness:            October 1986.
Section II - Special Bank ImplemenLtation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. Condition of Effectiveness: (a) The Government shall establish a special
account for the Government share of investment costs for IDA-financed compo-
nents, and shall deposit CFAF 50 million therein; this account shall be
replenished quarterly (para. 94); (b) the Government will open and thereafter
maintain a special account in CFA Francs with a commercial bank to permit
prompt disbursement of IDA funds (para. 94).
2. Other Conditions:
(a) The Government will initiate a study by Consultants on the
role and structure of OFNAR according to terms of reference
agreed with the Association, will review with the Association
by September 1987 the recommendations arising from the study,
and will consult with the Association on the program of action
to be implemented during the project (para. 75);
(b) The Government will increase OFNAR revenue to CFAF 800 million
in 1987, will initiate a study of road user charges to evalu-
ate the prospects and means to be adopted for increasing road
user revenues, and will consult with the Association by
September 1987 on the action program for cost recovery to be
implemented during the project; and will assign increased
revenues to OFNAR for 1988 and subsequent years (para. 76);
(c) The Government will initiate a study on the organization and
management of the trucking industry, will review its



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
recommendations with IDA by March 1988, and will prepare an
Action Plan for implementing agreed recommendations
(para. 84); and
(d) The Government will contribute 470 million CFAF to the cost of
the project (para. 88).
During negotiations, among others, the following were also discussed and
confirmed with the Government:
(a)   Definition of the priority road network, restriction of
rehabilitation and mechanical maintenance works to this
network, and rehabilitation as a prior condition for
mechanized maintenance (para. 77);
(b)   Prefinancing by OFNAR of emergency maintenance works on the
Sarh-Moundou-Lere road, to be executed by contract, and
retroactive financing by IDA (para. 78);
(c)   The Government will agree with the Bank the terms of reference
for all studies to be carried out under the Project and, in
consultation with the Bank, take action to implement the
accepted recommendations of these studies (para. 82); and
(d)  The Government will review with UNDP and IDA representatives
the UNDP report on transfer of the UNDP truck fleet to Chad,
and will develop an Action Plan to implement the agreed
recommendations (para. 84).



- 43 -
H 16HI1
'Project element        Activity       : Responsibility   I
I    __   _    _ _    _   _  _    _  _ I   __               I 
Board Approval
Credit Effectiveness                      ;
tA. BUILDIN6S
1.  Studies                       .OFNAR
2.  Tender Process                 :OFNAR
3.  Implementation                 JCONTRACTORS
;3. LERE-BRIUSE
1.  Impleaentation                 :UNDP/DPE          "
2.  Access Roads                   :OFNAR
I                                      .                , 
:C. FERRIES
1.  Tender Process                'DFNAR
2.  Implementation                 :Contractor
:D.  INDUSTRIAL ROAD
1.  Studies                        :Consultant     '
2.  Tender Process                 :DFNAR
3.  Implementation                 Contractor
!E. ROAD MAINTENANCE
I.  Tender Process                 OFNAR
2.  Bv Contract                    Contractor
3.  By Force kcount               :OFN4AR
:F. EQUIPMENT AND SPARE PARTS
1.  Tender Frocess                IOFNAR
2.  Delivery                      :Supplier
3.  Rehabil itation               :DFNAR
IG. CONSULTANT SERVICES                :        
1.  finistry oi Public borks-OFNAR IConsultant
2.  Ministry of Transport:
ta)  Tender Process            Min. Transport
(bi  Implementation           'Consultant
a -- - - --- - ----   ------ - - - --- ----- - - - --- - ---- ---------- --- .
a                        I                a   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 44 -
ANNEX V
CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LIST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE EXPERTS AND STUDIES
FOR WHICH TERMS OF REFERENCE ARE REQUIRED
1. Technical Assistance to OFNAR (11 staff-years)
Technical Advisor for two years in the Subdivisions of Moundou and Sarh
and for one year in the Subdivision of Mongo
Field Engineer for one year in Moundou and Sarh
Workshop and Equipment Advisor for two years in Moundou and Sarh
2. Technical Assistance to Ministry of Public Works (5 staff-years)
Project Manager/Sector Coordinator
Engineer Advisor (Roads) to Studies and Hydraulic
Division of MTP
Soils Expert for Soils Laboratory of ENTP
3.  Technical Assistance to Ministry of Transport (6 staff-years)
Economist
Systems Analyst
Short Term Experts
4. Studies:
Detailed Design of N'Djamena Industrial Road
Detailed Design of Guelengdeng-Bongor-Doba Road
Study of Role and Structure of OFNAR
Cost Recovery Study
Trucking Industry Study
5. Training Fellowships (15 staff-years)



*                                                          .   .                       - -         -: .. 
'N,
1~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~L  I BYA                                                           IA.R.E.
-22"i                                                          \     Ni                                                                  -
[ _ ____;_*____X 
* .            | ,  . | HIGHWAY  MAINTENANCE  "! 
PROJECT
AN FR  I CKA
F   N   I G   E  RjIi
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVJC ''R'OA, ''IS
|   /  ,  i  ,  _  ( _ * i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O E   U ^ l  dTAI                         U ^N W0ujRE R



/      *   -      I 12  ..r ~~~ED UNDER
.& Q/otAUd    Sl                                            '1    riO4THER )rODd IN THE PRIORITY
\N";+                                                                                              '          { z t. =-  .1PeDn.f NEfli RicotdsTWORK_
'-          _ _. #' '" C -    ' - _  ,, - ~~~~ PO-- se                  Get,  '    -              -PvZ
14j   _n   r     IAvI  +/j,$i,     /                                                          ,--                        FERRIES TO BE REPLACFO
'--.' -lim E      .             aR    TO*  A AECOPiSTRCT Er;
% ~ ~ ~~~ --                                                     0.'t 1.' Ie\ ".   ,,,,,. ,  E ;1"i+ ,._,
-140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4                                                                                                      '.        d 4._ 7
0~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~ i> . ,, ,Jtw In                                                                                %'AK
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
t~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *v-                                          '''..'"iL
z   S .                 ,                         C  E N  T                                        ACA  N     R EPUBLIC
mZ   V  -~V       ~ '>             /                                                                                                          '   ' " * * 



i
I
I



