Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11960
PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1728-CD)
JUNE 7, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department V
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      CFA Franc
USS 1 (1986)        =      CFAF 360
USS 1 (1987)        =      CFAF 301
USS 1 (1988)        =      CFAF 298
USS 1 (1989)        =      CFAF 319
USS 1 (1990)        =      CFAF 276
* rate used in RRP
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric .,stem
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF         African Development Fund
CARE         Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CFAF         Communaute Financiere Africaine (CFA) Francs
DGT          Direction Generale des Transports
EDF          European Development Fund
EEC          European Economic Community
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
LBF          Live Aid/Band Aid Foundation
LNBTP        National Laboratory of Public Workm and Housing
MPWHUD    Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban Development
MTCA         Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
NGO          Non-Governmental organization
OFNAR        Office National des Routes
RRP          Report and Recommendations of the President
SDR          Special Drawing Right
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
TSAIP        Transport Sector Adjustment/Invesunent Project
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
vpd          Vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 7, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Chad
Highway Maintenance Proiect (Credit 1728-CD)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Chad -- Highway
Maintenance  Project  (Credit  1728-CD)".   Part  II contains  the Borrower's
observations.
The Project was an emergency operation and was co-financed by the
African Development Fund and by the Live Aid/Band Aid Foundation. Credit 1728-CD
(SDR 17.1 million; US$20 million equivalent) was approved in July 1986 and was
fully disbursed by November 1990.
The well-written PCR describes how road maintenance capacity was
increased, urgent rehabilitation works were done, and steps were taken to
organize the transport sector.  There are some interesting lessons regarding
documentation (para. 35) and aid coordination (paras. 36-38). The re-estimated
economic rate of return was almost double that estimated at appraisal and the
Project set the stage for the Road Reconstruction Project (Credit 1901-CD of
April 1988). Overall, the Project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability
as likely, and its contribution to institutional development as substantial.
The Project may be audited along with the Road Reconstruction
Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorizution.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1728-CD
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE  ....................................................                                                i
EVALUATION  SUMMfARY   ........................................   ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIVE.                                           ............... I
A.      Project Identity ........................................    I
C.      Project Objectives and Description   ...........................   2
D.      Project Design and Organization .............................   2
E.      Project Implementation ...................................   4
F.      Major Results of the Project  ...............................   6
H.      Association Perfbrmance ..................................   7
J.      Project Relationships  ....................................   9
K.      Consulting Services .....................................   9
L.      Project Documentation  ...................................   9
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECLM  .... ......  10
PART III. STATISTCAL INFORMATION   ............................    12
A.      Related Bank Loans and Credits  ...........               ..       ...............    12
B.      Project Timetable         ..................               ...................    13
C.      Credit Data .........................................    14
(i)     Credit Disbursements ..............................    14
(ii)    Allocation of Credit Proceeds ..........................    15
D.      Project Costs and Financing ...................                       ............    16
E.      Compliance with Credit Covenants  ..........................   17
F.      Use of IDA Resources  ..................................    18
(i)     Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weles ....              ......   18
(ii)    Mission Data ...................................    19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDII 1723-CD
PREFACE
i.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Highway Maintenance Project for which
Credit 1728-CD in the amount of SDR 17.1 million (US$20 million equivalent) was approved on July
29, 1986. The final disbursement was made on November 12, 1990 when the credit became fully
disbursed.
ii.    The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Sahelian Department
of the Africa Regional Office. It is based on the expanded Report and Recommendation of the
President in lieu of a Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence files; and interviews with IDA staff. The Government telexed its comments to the
Bank on October 5, 1991; they are included in Part II of this report.
iii.    Co-financiers included the African Development Fund (AfDF) and the Live Aid/Band Aid
Foundation (LBF).






ii
PROJECT COMEPLEON REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1728-DC
EVALUATTON SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The main objectives of the Project were: a) to develop the capacity of the Government's
public works department to maintain the high priority road network; b) to ensure maintenance of road
rehabilitation works recently completed by foreign donors; c) to repair a damaged bridge, rebuild two
ferries and to rehabilitate a road serving N'Djamena industrial area; and d) to assist in organizing the
transport sector (para. 4).
I=1menteato ExpDerience,
ii.    The Project was a short term emergency operation to provide a basis for a long term road
rehabilitation program. The documents indicate that the Project was well-designed to coordinate and
complement the substantial assistance from other donors in the road sub-sector (paras. 1 and 2).
iii.    Most of the road rehabilitation worhs were carried out by departntal forces which were
reorganized and re-equipped under the Project. A series of feasibility and economic studies were
carried out which provided the basis for two follow-up projects, one for road rehabilitation and the
other for various transport components, including roads (paras. 20-22).
Results
iv.    The Project was thoroughly and expeditiously prepared, executed in a timely fashion, and
completed within the original budget. In addition, some extra works and studies were carried out
with surplus funds (paras. 23-24).
v.    Procurement procedures tended to be lengthy, but procuremet was satisfactorily carried out
except for one minor exception (para. 29).
vi.   The thorough transport strategy paper agreod on in February 1988 was essential in
formulating priorities, determining the additional studies neoded, and setting the stage for further
projects (para. 30).
vii.   The Project represented a good start in Chad's post-war reconstruction effort.  The
reevaluated ERR is almost double that estimated at appraisal because of the rapid growth in traffic
(para. 31).
SzusanakfHil
viii. Although an emergency project, the road works initiated under the Credit appear sustainable
as demonstrated by continuation of road reabilitation works and the implementation of the
recommendations of several studies under two on-going projects (para. 32).



iii
Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.    The Project demonstrated that a multi-component road project can be successfully executed
on a timely basis by a relatively inexperienced but cooperative Borrower, if it is well prepared and
closely supervised by IDA, and monitored by consultants (paras. 33-35).
x.    The unusually close coordination with co-donors developed by IDA and pursued vigorously
by supervision missions, both in Chad and at donor headquarters, contributed to the successful
execution of the Project (para. 33).
xi.    The Project confirms that under certain circumstances, considerable preparation time can be
saved in preparing a project for presentation to IDA's Board by using an expanded Report and
Memorandum of the President (RRP) rather than preparing both a RRP and SAR (paras. 35 and 43).
xii.   Earlier agreement by donors on a road strategy might have been useful in avoiding low
priority or uneconomic investments in road works by other donors (paras. 36-38).



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1728-CD
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:       Highway Maintenance Project
Credit No.:         Credit 1728-CD
RVP Unit:           Africa, Sahelian Department, Infrastructure Division
Country:            Republic of Chad
Sector:             Transportation
B.    Project Background
1.    Chad is one of the poorest countries in the world. It is landlocked and, as a result, subject
to high transport costs. By early 1986, Chad's transport network had suffered both damage and
neglect as a result of two decades of political instability culminating in a civil war from 1979 to 1982,
followed by sporadic fighting, particularly in the north, up to early 1986. While other donors were
concentrating their efforts in rehabilitating the country's main road network, IDA considered that top
priority should be given to restoring Chad's road maintenance capability. This was believed essential
to support the uncoordinated efforts of many donors to rehabilitate the road system, and to restore
the economy, particularly the cotton industry, the country's main foreign exchange earner, which had
suffered from collapsing world prices for cotton.
2.    The Government's Interim Plan for 1986-88 formed the basis of the Project and an emergency
Cotton Sector rehabilitation project, which was being prepared at the same time by IDA. The Plan
was presented to donors at a Round Table Conference held in December 1985 and sponsored by the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). In that document, the Government identified the
following broad objectives: achieve food self-sufficiency, reettle the population, reconstitute the
livestock herd, rehabilitate the transport system, and intensify and diversify export production, mainly
cotton.
3.    The Project was a short-term emergency operation and was prepared using Bank accelerated
procedures. Reporting was confined to the RRP with appropriate annexes; no Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was required. The project was prepared in just under one year from IDA's Initig Project
Brief (6-26-85) to Board Presentation (6-19-86), which confirms the priority accorded the project by
IDA. Project preparation had to start from scratch as the public works administration had been
completely disrupted by the war.
4.    IDA started to assist Chad's road sub-secor in 1968. The First Highway Project was only
partially successful due to severe budgeting constrain. The Second Highway Project in 1974 was
also only partly successful because of the severe economic and political difficulties facing the country
in the late 1970's. The Third Highway Project (1978), which was to support a four-year mainenance
program, did not become effective because of the start of the war. Related credits are shown in Part
m, Table A.



2
C.    Proiect Objectives and Descriftion
5.    Proiect Obiectives. The goal of the Project was to develop at least in nucleus form by 1988,
the physical and financial capacity to plan, manage and implement a continuing program of
rehabilitation and mainteirance of the high priority network. The specific objectives were:
(a)   to develop the logistical (material and managerial) capacity within the Office National
des Routes (OFNAR) in order to maintain and manage a reduced high priority
network;
(b)   to safeguard the road rehabilitation works already completed by foreign aid and to
ensure their maintenance for which no provision had been made;
(c)   to overcome the most important obstacles to the normal use of the road network,
namely a damaged bridge, dilapidated ferries, and an unserviceable industrial road
serving N'Djamena; and
(d)   to assist in organizing the transport sector as a whole and, in particular, the road sub-
sector 1/.
6.    Project Dacription.   The Project financed an emergency program  covering:  (a)
rehabilitation and equipment of the OFNAR subdivisional offices and workshops in N'Djamena,
Moundou, Sarh and Mongo; (b) rehabilitation of existing road mainenance equipment and supply of
new equipment; technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban
Development (MPWHUD) and OFNAR subdivisions; (c) studies covering petroleum marketing and
pricing, and road-user cost recovery, an organizational study of use of local materials and local
contractors and preparation of follow-up projects; (d) a routine maintenance program for the roads
recently rehabilitated by foreign aid, including emergency maintenance works by contract on the 623
km Lere-Moundou-Sarh road; (e) reconstruction and maintenance of a road linking N'Djamena's
industrial district with the Cameroon border and the country's primary road network; (f)
reconstruction of one bridge and one ferry, and rehabilitation of a second ferry serving the cotton
growing area; and (g) technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (MTfCA),
including an organizational study of the trucking industry and implementation of its recommendations,
and an air transport studyZ/.
D.    Project Design and Organization
7.    The Project was designated as an emergency program to help restore local road maintenance
capabilities which had been largely destroyed during the war. The Project assisted the MPWHUD
and MTCA to rebuild capacity to rehabilitate and maintain the country's high priority road network,
to address important institution building objectives in the transport sector, to help resolve constraints
on the efficiency and competitiveness of the road transport industry, and to coordinate and implement
other donor's activities in the sector. The scale nd scope of the project was appropriate in the light
of the objectives, and it was well-timed to meet the needs of the country. The Project was prepared
with the assistance of a consultant financed by the UNDP.
I/ RRP dated Jun 2, 1986, pau. 70.
I/ [bid, pe. 71.



3
8.    The Project was designed to complement the efforts of other donors in the sector and to lay
the foundation for effective donor coordination through technical assistance to be provided to
OFNAR. The Project covered the first two years of a five-year program to establish an ongoing
maintenance capacity, and was to be followed by a second maintenance project in FY89. The Project
Brief of February 14, 1986 clearly outlined the project concept, identified the donors working in
Chad, stated the issues and noted that the project would be prepared following accelerated procedures
as noted in para. 3. Steps to speed up project processing were spelled out in the Brief. By the time
the Project Brief was issued, an appraisal mission was already in the field. The processing timetable
(Table B) allowed four months from the revised Project Brief to Board Presentation. This schedule
was more than met as the RRP was ready on June 2, 1986. However, the Project was not presented
until over a month later, mainly because IDA management wished to first present the emergency
cotton sector rehabilitation project (para. 2).
9.    Total estimated cost of the Project was US$29.8 million, or SDR 17.1 million. Live
AidlBand Aid Foundation (LBF) and the African Development Fund (AfDF) provided parallel
financing for the Lere Bridge of USS1.3 million, and the construction of a road linking the
N'Djamena industrial district to the Cameroon border and the main road network (US$7.2 million),
respectively. The Government financed the remaining US$1.3 million, mainly through road-user
charges on fuel.
10.   Special features of the emergency Project were: i) to fill key gaps in the road network, and
ii) to establish capacity to maintain roads rehabilitated by other donors ai. These included the
UNDP, United States Agency for International Development (USAID), FondS d'Aide at de
Cooperation (FAC), European Development Fund (EDF), Italy and Germany. These special featres
posed difficulties for the appraisal mission, as the donors had already selected the works of interest
to them, leaving gaps of continuity in the maintenance and rehabilitation of the network to be filled
by IDA. Furthermore, donor programs were scheduled over various time periods and some still had
to be approved.
11.   IDA was asked by the donor community to take a leading role in coordinting investment
planning and maintenance in the transport sector. It was arranged that the Project Manager (a
consultant), who would head up a small project unit in the MPWHUD to manage the project, was
to exchange information on a regular basis with all foreign missions in Chad, which were involved
in the transport sector 4/. The purpose of the project unit was to assist MPWHUD in initiating and
implementing the overall road program.
12.   The MPWHUD and the MTCA were designated as the executing agencies. OFNAR was
supported by a substantial amount of technical assistance to complete the repairs of its of'ices and
workcshops damaged during the civil war, and to rehabilitate equipment that had been neglected during
that period. Technical assistance was also provided to the Geeral Directorate of Transport (GDT),
to create a sector data bank, and to provide short-term specialists in the transport field.
If Decision MuwradWUm Tmanmit Shad dated April 15, 1956.
I/ RRP dated June 2, 1986.



4
E.    Project ImDlementation
13.   Credit Effectiveness and Proie_. St-u. The Credit was approved on July 29, 1986, signed
on August 25, 1986, but did not become effective until December 17, 1986 mainly because of slow
approval by the Government of the legal documents. However, Project execution got underway in
mid-1986, despite the delay in effectiveness. Planned and actual project timetables are shown in
Table B.
14.   The first supervision visit by IDA was made in June/July 1986. LBF had already committed
itself to the financing of the Lere Bridge and construction was under way. An AfDF preparation
mission was in the field, and approved the TOR for the detailed engineering of the N'Djamena
industrial road, and indicated its intention to appraise that component in December 1986. The TOR
for the organizational study of OFNAR was agreed, while the TOR for technical assistance and the
cost recovery study were being analyzed by the Government. As the bids for the emergency
maintenance of the Sarh-Moundou-Lere road were twice the SAR estimate, MDA agreed with the
Government to carry out the work through OFNAR under the responsibility of an expatriate team
supplied by the same consultant who prepared the Project. Thus, project execution got off to a fast
start, thanks to the preparatory work initiated earlier by IDA and the Government.
15.   The first supervision mission held intensive discussions with several donors currently
financing road rehabilitation works in Chad, including FAC, EDF, UNDP and USAID. IDA's
leadership was welcomed in rationalizing the road sector program and in assuring adequate
maintenance of works financed by others. The mission reported much interest in the conclusion of
the Transport Sector Memorandum, which was scheduled for discussion at a donor meeting early in
1987 JI.
16.   The next supervision mission was joined at the consultants' office in Paris by an IDA
mechanical engineering consultant to review the study for equipment renewal, assess OFNAR's
equipment needs and its capacity to repair and maintain roads. The mission also met in Paris with
FAC and the French Building and Public Woris Laboratory to arrange for (i) an assessment as to the
availability of Chad's road building materials; (ii) appropriate construction standards to be adopted
accordingly; and (iii) the establishment of a national soils laboratory in Chad (LNBTP).
17.   In Chad, the mission gathered information which would help in the preparation of the follow-
up project. The mission agreed with the Government on the main points of the draft sector
memorandum and the draft strategy paper. The mission persuaded one donor to exclude the
rehabilitation of a low priority road in favor of one already in the priority program, and a second
donor to revise its rehabilitation program. It recommended that IDA's cooperation with West
Germany and EDF needed to be developed.
18.   Early in 1987, IDA supervision staff visited KFW, EDF, FAC and AfDB to discuss their
plans for investm  in Chad's transport sector f/. The mission found that financing wu no longer
available for the rehabilitation of three priority roads, and recommended a supplemental IDA credit
to the ongoing project for this purpose. This matter was pursued to the RVP level 1! but it wa
I/ Supwrvison Rot daWd August 26, 1986.
§/ Ofrfic Memorndum  4d March 6, 1987.
7/ offim  Memowndum daed Marh 26 and April 28, 1987.



not acted upon, because by the time engineering studies would become available, the financing could
be included in the follow-up road project which was already in the lending program. These works
were in fact financed under the Road Reconstruction Project (Credit 1901-CD, US$47 million
equivalent, April 26, 1988). This project is now nearing completion and a PCR is currently under
preparation.
19.   Further coordination was carried out by the next supervision mission in March/April 1987
through discussions with USAID, EDF, FAC, West Germany and Italy. The mission also explored
with Government, the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere (CARE) and the International
Labor Organization (ILO), a component in the next transport project to enable NGOs to assist rural
communities in rehabilitating and maintaining minor rural roads and bridges. The mission reported
that project implementation was progressing satisfactorily. The mission suggested that the donors
meeting be postponed to September 1987 to allow for the inclusion of recommendations to be derived
from the soils materials and air transport studies.
20.   By July 1987, the technical assistance team to help OFNAR set up routine maintenance teams
was operational, and consultants had been selected to carry out the reorganization study of OFNAR,
the cost recovery study, a road feasibility study, an the study of the trucking industry. Road traffic
regulations were being better enforced with strong support of the President. The one problem noted
was the slow bidding and contract award procedures which IDA urged the Government to speed up,
so as not to delay the preparation of the follow-up project.
21.   The Government's Transport Sector Strategy Paper, which was prepared with IDA assistance,
was presented to the Donor Community in February 1988. It included a six-year investment
program. The main elements of strategy focused on:
(a)    completion of the rehabilitation and maintenance of the high priority road network;
(b)   improvement of air transport infrastructure and safety;
(c)   improvement of planning and management capacity of both public and private sector
institutions dealing with transport infrastructure and services, specifically OFNAR
and Air Tchad;
(d)   improvement of road maintenance financing and cost recovery through more efficient
tax collection and the possible introduction of specific user charges; and
(e)   liberalization of transport tariffs and promotion of (i) private participation in road
maintenance and quarry operations, and (ii) increased competition in the trucking
industry.
22.   Adoption of the Strategy Paper established the policy framework for the transport sector. The
ongoing IDA Project was mainly to strengthen weak sector institutions, particularly those dealing with
road maintenance, through selected technical assistance and studies concerning the reorganization of
OFNAR, road maintenance funding, the development of air transport and the trucking industry. On
the basis of these studies, the Government established a detailed action plan and implementation
program for the policy reforms agreed in principle under the Sector Strategy Paper 1/.
I/ Staff Apprisl Repot dazed March 21, 1988 for the Road Constuction Project, paw. 236-237.



6
23.   By the time the Road Reconstruction Project was presented to the Board in March 1988, the
ongoing Highway Maintenance Project was about 65 percent completed and proceeding satisfactorily.
The Project was 75 percent completed by the fall of 1988, and substantially completed by June 1989
in line with the original schedule, except for detailed engineering studies for roads to be rehabilitated
under the proposed Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project (TSAIP), and the completion of
the approaches to a ferry installed under the project. The studies were added to the Project early in
1989 as a means of using surplus funds to expedite the preparation of the TSAEP (Credit 2007-CD,
USS60 million, June 21, 1989). The Project was fully completed in mid-1990.
24.    procurement. Procurement under the Project proceeded reasonably satisfactorily given the
inexperience of Chad officials with Bank procedures. This also applied to the selection of
consultants, although proposals for one contract had to be reinvited because the documents did not
adequately state the basis on which the successful consultant would be selected. As noted in para.
20, IDA had to urge the Government to speed up its procurement process. The September 1988
mission reported progress in remedying this problem.
25.   Disbur_s. The estimated and actual disbursements of the Credit are shown in Table C(i)
in Part m. As can be seen, the Credit was disbursed at a rapid rate as compared to the Bank's
disbursement profile for highway projects in West Africa. The final disbursement was made on
November 12, 1990 when the Credit was fully disbursed.
26.   Cedit ll . The original and actual allocations are shown in Table C(ii) of Part m.
The allocations were amended from time to time to reflect changes in financing needs as the Project
progressed. The main changes represented additions to the Project scope.
27.   Pmiect Costs. 'he estimated cost of the Project at appraisal was US$29.8 million. The final
cost at completion as noted in the supervision report dated July 31, 1991 was the same in SDR terms.
Appraisal and actual costs in US dollars are shown in Table D. Actually, the project as originally
conceived cost somewhat less than that amount, as the Government was able to add the following to
the project scope: (i) the establishment of one additional subdivisional maintenance office; (ii) the
carrying out of additional feasibility studies; and (iii) reconstruction of the offices of the MPWHUD.
The additional studies account for the 135 percent increase in disbursements for consultants over the
appraisal amount.
F.    Major Results of the Project
28.   Proiect Obiectives. The Project was fully successful in meeting the major objectives outlined
in para. S. It succeeded in upgrading the maintenance capability of OFNAR, and provided the studies
which served as a basis for preparing two on-going projects, one for road rehabilitation and the
second for a six-year investment program in the transport sector (para. 18 and 23).
29.    omIai. One of the main achievements of the Project was the rebuilding in a short
period of time of a road Iaministrton which had been completely diupted as a result of the war.
Other accomplishments include the following:  (i) the rehabilitation work was stisfactorily
completed; (ii) routine maintean  teams were set up in the subdivisional offices specified, as well
as one additional office not included in the original program; (iii) all equipment provided for in the
Project wa delivered; (iv) the technical asdstance team for the MPWHUD performed well,
particularly in updating the accounting system, organizing the Ministry and helping prepare the
TSAIP.



7
30.   Sudie. The studies carried out under the Project are listed in para. 6. The study on the
trucking industry found that road freight transport activities were highly regulated and that road
transport costs were excessive. This issue was noted to be a major obstacle to economic development
and economic integration, and was addressed under Credit 2007-CD (para. 23). The road
construction industry wasfound to be very limited in size and scope. The Government-owned quarry
was privatized under Credit 1901-CD (para. 18) and steps were taken under Credit 2007-CD to
increase competition in the industry and give the private sector a greater role in carrying out road
rehabilitation works 2/. In addition, a study was carried out of AIR TCHAD, the Government-
owned airline.
31.   Economic Performance.  The Project represented a good start in Chad's post-war
reconstruction effort. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) at appraisal was 21 percent, which
covered about 82 percent of project costs. The re-evaluated ERR calculated by the consultants is
about 38 percent. According to the consultants, in 1987 traffic on the Sarh-Lere-Cameroon border
road through Moundou (601 klm) was an average of 50 vehicles/day. Over the next 4 years, the
traffic's yearly growth was 16 percent, reaching in 1991 a level comparable to the traffic existing
before the civil war. Today, traffic is mainly 50 percent heavy truckcs, transporting both cotton
products and agricultural products grown in the area, as well as imported manufactured goods.
32.   Although an emergency project, the road works initiated under the Credit appear sustainable
as demonstrated by continuation of road rehabilitation works and the implementation of the
recommendations of several studies under two on-going projects.
HI.    Association Performance
33.   IDA supervision missions visited Chad on the average of twice a year during project
execution. The reports indicate that supervision was thorough and the files show that careful attention
was given to procurement issues, and equipment problems by bringing in a mechanical engineering
consultant. Supervision missions also maintained unusually close coordination with the project co-
donors, as well as other donors involved in the highway sub-sector, both in Chad and at their
headquarters. MIA took the lead in preparing a transport sector report and in arranging a meeting
of all donors in the transport field in February 1988. Use of IDA resources is shown in Table F.
34.   The reorganization of the Bank in early 1988 fortunately had little effect on the execution of
the Project as the same IlDA engineer continued to be responsible for Chad road workcs. The good
results achieved in Chad support the conclusion that project execution is enhanced by continuity of
highly competent IMA supervisory staff from inception to completion, especialy in the case of an
inexperienced Borrower. The use of a project unit to monitor progress also contributed to the
project's success.
35.   Once the Association decided to become involved in the Chad road sub-sector in the fall of
1985, it moved ahead with the preparadon of a well conceived emergency road rehabilitation project
with a view to coordinating and complementing the activities of other donors already in the field.
The RRP was prepared with dispatch and IMA's efforts in this regard were commendable.
Considerable time was saved in preparing the RRP, as opposed to a SAR, as noted in para. S. A
2/ RRP for the T5AIP dated March 30, 1989, pua. 27, 30, an 65.



major IDA accomplishment was to gain the confidence of Borrower personnel, which eventually led
to close cooperation between the two parties.
36.   Some donors became involved in the road sub-sector a year or more earlier than IDA. Thus,
by the time IDA reassessed the political situation, resolved the issue of arrears owed it from previous
credits, and reactivated its highway operations in mid-1985 IQ/, other donors had already staked
out their interests. In this context at least, IDA might have taken the lead in coordinating donors
works earlier than at the time of appraisal and the first supervision visit. The Project Brief was
circulated under cover of an office memorandum dated February 24, 1986. An earlier draft of this
memo which was discussed at a meeting before the appraisal mission departed Washington, outlined
the dilemma posed by IDA's late arrival on the scene. An internal memorandum noted that 'it would
be difficult for a technical assistance team (i.e. the appraisal mission), however skilled, to impose its
views on the actions of other donors. JL/ ... Nevertheless, the mission was instructed to make
clear to other donors that if they insist on financing strategically important but uneconomic roads,
they place themselves under a continuing obligation to finance the maintenance of such roads.' II/
37.   Since both members of the appraisal team were former Bank staff members engaged as
consultants, it is understandable why the team might have had some difficulty in 'imposing its views
on the actions of other donors". It would have been more appropriate for a senior IDA staff member
to have been given that task. A general operational mission did go to Chad to carry out the
assignment along with other work, but it only arrived when the appraisal mission was about to depart.
38.   In light of the above, it seems puzzling that IDA did not convene a preliminary donor's
meeting to discuss the transport sector following the Round Table Conference (para. 2), rather than
almost two years later. While the delay gave the Association and the Borrower an opportunity to
prepare a well-considered transport strategy paper, an earlier preliminary draft of a road strategy
paper might have been useful in establishing priorities and avoiding uneconomic works. On the other
hand, it would not have had the Borrower commitment that was generated by jointly defining,
carrying out and discussing the studies (paras. 17 and 36).
I.    Borrower Performance
39.   The Government satisfactorily implemented the Project which was designed as a short-term
emergency operation. Compliance with credit covenants was good as shown in Table E. The
Borrower made a good start in strengthening its executing capacity during project execution. Its
ability to deal with procurement matters and to follow IDA guidelines improved during the life of the
Project. While the Project was not a particularly large one, it did involve many components,
particularly studies, which formed the basis of fiurther projects now under way and under preparation.
These projects were designed to continue the progress made under the Project, especially to
rehabilitate additional high priority roads, strengthen the MPWHUD and the MTCA, rorganize
OFNAR, establish a procurement unit within MPWHUD, provide further assistance to the LENTP,
jW hbid, pem. 90.
Ul Office Memomndum dW Februy 24, 1986.
IV Ibid. pam. 6.



9
and encourage the local construction industry to participate in the expanding need for road
maintenance and rehabilitation II/.
40.   Project accounts have been audited and found to be generally satisfactory.
J.    Project Relationships
41.   The relationship between IMA and the Borrower was close. The files indicate that IDA
project staff were particularly helpful to the Government in expediting Project preparation and
execution and in preparing follow-on projects. They also show that the Government was responsive
to IDA suggestions. The close relationship between IDA and the Borrower was reflected in the
manner in which the Project was expeditiously executed.
K.    Consulting Services
42.   The performance of the several consultants involved in the design and engineering of the
Project, the technical assistance to the MPWHUD and MTCA, and the several studies as outlined in
paras. 6 and 7 was fully satisfactory.
L.    Project Documentatigz
43.   Project files do not contain a copy of the Initiating Project Brief of June 26, 1985, the
findings of the identification mission of November 1985, and other correspondence involving the
identification and early preparation of the Project. This may be because the Project was prepared
earlier as part of a proposed Economic Rehabilitation Project which was never presented.
44.   The RRP and the Credit Agreement adequately spelled out the objectives and description of
the Project. In view of the emergency nature of the project, a decision to produce only an expanded
President's Report was appropriate as the RRP was fully adequate in outlining the project objectives
and description. The Project confirms that under certain circumstances, considerable preparation time
can be saved in presenting a project to the Board by using an expanded RRP and omitting the SAR.
These circumstances would particularly apply to rehabilitation of high priority roads between major
centers of economic activity in an existing road system.
IV RRP for de TSAIP dad Mamh 30, 1989, pm. 4.



10
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Performance of the Bank
Lessons learned
1.    All Bank staff members involved in the project's preparation, its implementation and
supervision, were recognized as professional in their respective fields. The quarterly supervision
missions were felt to be indispensable, and their impact on the progress of the project very positive.
2.    The efforts of the Bank, undertaken in conjunction with the Borrower, allowed for efficient
and optimal management of the Credit.
3.    The frequency of the supervision missions was considered particularly well-suited to the
Project.
Performance of the Borrower
Lasons leaMrd
4.    Despite the numerous difficulties inherent to the situation, we think that our actions, in
consultation with the Bank, were appropriate and marked by a constructive willingness. The
consultant services funded by the project proved indispensable in offsetting the lack of local
competence and fulfilled their role while promoting enthusiasm in the administrative and technical
services of the Ministries concerned.
5.    All the bidding documents for consultant services, equipment and works were drawn up in
collaboration with IDA according to the Bank guidelines. Nevertheless, it became indispensable to
modernize the current Chadian texts and to create guidelines for each type of consultation.
6.    The financial management of the credit, assigned to a special unit of the Ministry, was
thorough and efficient. This sound management was confirmed by the three annual audits, and a final
audit. As the systems in place proved satisfactory, the Government is hoping to continue along this
path and to systemize this type of management.
Reladons with the Bank
7.    The cooperation and coordination between the Chadians and Bank staff involved were
excellent throughout the project.
8.    IDA's advice and support allowed for normal progress in all the Project components, and
insdtuted a constructive and understanding dialogue between the parties involved.



11
9.    The frequent exchange of views was, from our point of view, one of the dominating factors
in attaining and surpassing all the objectives of the project.
10.   The excellent relations throughout the Project significantly favored the preparation of the
project that followed. The Transport Sector Adjustment Credit (2007-CD) became effective at the
same time as the Road Maintenance Project closed (December 1989).
Performance of the Cofinancers
11.   Not applicable for this Project.
Note: i)     Translated from a telex received from the Ministry of Public Works and Transport,
dated October 5, 1991.
ii)    Regarding the performance of co-financiers, the Ministry is apparently incorrect as
there were two co-donors as noted in Part I of the PCR.



12
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year Of
L|nCredk irt                       Purpose                 Approval               status
1. Credit 664-CD                Maintenance of SeCd          1976                 Completed
Rurl Fund Project            feeder roads.
2. Credit 125-CD                Improving road               1968                 Project was only
First Highway Project        muintenance,                                      partially succesful
due to evere
budgetary constaints
3. Credit 490-CD                Five-year program of         1984                 Project wus not fully
The Second Highway Project   imprmvement and                                   implemented due to
maintenance of cotton roads,                     severe economic and
a three-year interim                             polital difficulies
maintenance progm for
fernies, a trining program,
a progrm  of taffic counts,
and pinveaument and road
______________________   transpoit industry sxdies.
4. Credit 840-CD                Four-year road maintance    1978                  Beause of the
The Third Highway Project    progrm, regrvelling,                              poliical situation, the
tsining program, four ferry                       credit never became
boats, and technical                              effective
assistance to the Directorae
of Public Works ad
T rnport.
Source: Report and Recommendation of the President dated June 2, 1986.



13
B. Project Timetable
Date                   Date                    Date
Planned                Reved vAtual v
| Ide   e fk118S11/85
Appraial Miuion               -                                              2111-3/4/U6
Credit Negptiatons            519/86                                         5/19-5/20/86
bard Approval                 6/19/86                                        7/29/86
Credit Sgture                 -                                              8/25/86
Credi Effeedveueua                                                           12/17/86
Credi Cbing                   6/30/89                 6J30/90                10/31/90
Project Compledio              12/31/88                                      6190
Source: Project Brief dated February 14, 1986, and credit documents
2       Source: Conespondence file



14
C. Credit Data
(i) Credit Disbursements
Bank                              Disbusanents (in USS million)
Fscl year                                   Credit 1728-CD
Estimated            Acul          Actual % of
Cumulative at EL    Cumulative d       Estimated
1987                             0.7                 3.2              457
1988                             4.6                 8.6              187
1989                             9.1                19.0              209
1990                             13.4               22.2              166
1991                             16.9              22.5 iL            133
1992                             19.2                                 _
1993                             20.0
Al     Soume: RRP, page iu
h/     Represents expenence with highway projects in West Africa rather than based on project expectations.
c/     Source: Statements of credits
Differentitl between ctual and estimated disbursements attributed to currency variations between US
dollars and SDRz in which credit was denominated.
AF51N
September 26, 1991



15
C. Credit Data (continued)
(ii) Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(in SDRs)
Original                    Actual
CategQfl                  AAlom1iDn               Disbursemnmti bL
1) Parts A and D of the
Project:
a)  Civil works for              1,400,000                  1,745,981
buildings and
equipment
b) Road maintenance             2,250,000                   2,324,739
equipment
c)  Spare parts for road         580,000                     789,209
equipment
d) Technical assistance         2,280,000                   2,035,862
and training
e)  Road maintenance by         2,330,000                   2,311,500
contract or force
account
2) Part B of the Project
a)  Civil works for              1,340,000                   432,992
access road
construction by
contract of force
account
b)  Equipment and spare          340,000                     310,405
parts
3) Consultant's services for       3,080,000                  7,149,312
Part C of the project
4) Unallocated                     3,500,000                      0
TOTAL                     17.100oo.                  17,100o.0
aL Source: Credit Agreement, page 11
bL Source: Credit Disbursement records



16
D. Project Costs and Financing
i) Project Cost Estimates
(in USS million)
Appraisal iL                   Actual b/
____ Category_____             Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Restoring Road Maintenance     1.8       8.2      10.1      2.7       6.9       9.6
Capacity____ ___
Road Maintenance               1.8       3.0      4.8       4.8       3.3       8.1
Operations
ClosingCritical Gaps in the    3.1       6.7      9.9       0.6       0.5       1.1
Network_
Institutional Development      0.5       4.7       5.2       1.1      9.9      11.0
Soe: RP. pars. 57 wit coaW*neune dianbutad to each componmu.
L Som: CA _iwa
Now: Fiprm an rounded.
ii) Project Financing
(in USS million)
l_       Local        |      Foreign                 Total
LBF                          0.3                    1.0                   1.3
AIDF                         2.0                    5.2                   7.2
Govwnmnt                      1.3                                         1.3
IDA                          3.6                   16.4                  20.0
7.2                  22.6                  29.8
Source: RRP, para. 89.



17
E. Comoliance with Credit Covenants
section                             Dacription of Covenant                                 Status
3.03       The Borrower shall cause OFNAR to:                                           Complied with
a) open, on tem  and conditions satisfactory to the Association and thereafter
maintain for purpose of PaUt A and D of the Project, a Project account in a
commercial bank for payment of expenditures under Parts A and D of the
Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
b) maLke into such Project account an initial deposit of fifty minion CPAF;
c)in addition to the initial deposit referred to in pam. b) hreof, quarterly
repenish the Project account in an amount of at least fifty million CFPA so that
the funds available in such Project shall at all times be sufficient to permit
timely and efficient execution of Pau A and D of the Project
3.04       a) carry out a study on the role and srtucture of OFNAR;                     Complied with
b) review with the Association the recommendations of said study not later than
September 30, 1987; and
c) promptly implement such recommendation of said tudy as shall be satisfctory
to the Borrower and the Asociation
3.05       Tbe Borrower shall:
a) take all necessary actions to improve collection of fuel tUL  and accordingly   Complied with
incre  OPNAR's revenues to at leat CPAP 80,000,000 in fiscal year 1987;
b) carry out study on road-user charges, review with the Association the
recommendations of said study not later than Septemnber 30, 1987 and promptly
unplement such recommendations of said study as shall be sfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, including measures to increase the transport
sector's revenues and improve the sector's cost recovery; and
c) take all necessary actions to further increa  OFNAR's revenues in fial
year 1988 and in each fisal year thereafter in amounts sufficient to cover
OPNAR's rasonable esfimated funding needs for the fiscal year concerned.
3.06       The Borrower shll:
a) carry out a tudy on the orpgnization, the liberalization and maagement of
the trucking indu sty;
b) review with the Association the recommendation of said study not laer thn
March 31, 1988; and
c) promptly inVimnemt such recomnmedations of said study as shall be
satisfcory to the Borrower and the Association.
3.07       7he Borrower sll not latr than September 30 of each year submit to the       Complied with
Assocition for review a transport sector invement and expenditure progrm for
th  ollowing fiwa year.                                                     _
Source: Supervision Report daed July 31, 1990.
AF51N
Septmber 26, 1991



18
F. Use of IDA Resources
(i) Staff Inoutu by Staic of Proiect Cycle in Staff Weeks
St oe Prof e E   Cycek                       Emad                 Rzzbsd              E
Through Appmisa                                0.0                  0.0               0.0
Apprial to Board                               0.0                  0.0                4.6
Suprvision                                     8.0                  4.6               33.9
Other (PCR)                                    8.0                  8.0                0.0
TOTAL                           16.0                 12.6              38.5
APSIN
Septenber26, 1991



19
(ii) Mission Dat
Stage of     Month/Year    No. of    Days im   Specilization    Performance      Dates of
Project Cycle                Persons    Fied    Repraeeted L  Rating Status         Reports
Identification     11/85   n__
Appmisl            2/86          2         15     HE(C), EC(C)                    4/15/86 t1
Supervision 1      7/86          3         15     HE, HE(C),      1,1,1,1         8/26/86
EC__               _ _  _  _   __  _ _ _  _
Supervision 2      11/86         2         22     HE, EC          1,1,1,1         12/16/86
Supervision 3      3/87          2         8      HE, EC          1,2,1,1         4/29/87
Supervision 4      07/87         1         7      HE              1,2,1,1         10/01/87
Supervision 5      03/88         1         8      HE              1,2,1,1         06W287
Supervision 6      09/88         1         7      HE              1,11,11         11/16/88
Supervision 7      05/89         1         5      HE              1,1,1,1,1       06/6/59
Supervision 8      10/89         3         15     HE, EC, PO      1,1,1,1,1       11/28/89
Supervision 9      02/90         1         4      HE              1,1,1,1,1       03/27/90
Supervision 10     07/90         2      -         HE, EC          1,1,1,1,1       07/31/90
ad EN - Engine         EC - Economist          ME -Mechnical Engineer
HE - Highway Engineer                       PO - Prcurenent Offic
C - Consultant
b/ Issues Paper/Decision Memorandum
AF51N
Scpernber 26, 1991



