OFFICIAL           CREDIT NUMBER 1728 CD
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1728 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrow?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) tile Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (AfDF) a Credit (the AfDF Credit) in an amount
equivalent to US$7,200,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the AfDF Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and AfDF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agree-
ment.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "CFAF" means the common currency of the Borrower and
other members of the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale;


﻿-2-
(b) "GDPW" means the General Directorate of Public Works of
MPWHUD;
(c)   "GDT" means the General Directorate of Transport of
MTCA;
(d) "MPWHUD" means the Ministry of Public Works, Housing
and Urban Development of the Borrower;
(e) "MTCA" means the Ministry of Transport and Civil
Aviation of the Borrower;
(f) "OFNAR" means Office National des Routes, the agency
responsible for management of the road network, including road
construction and maintenance, under the tutelle of MPWHUD;
(g) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(i) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year begin-
ning January 1 and ending December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventeen million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (cr, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
*    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1996, and ending March 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amoint.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Con-
ditions.
*    The dates inserted here should be the same as those stipu-
lated in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and,. to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C (2)
and D of the Project through MPWIIUD, Part C (1) of the Project
through MTCA and Part C (3) both through MPWHUD and MTCA, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
reu.ired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction uapon any of
its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause OFNAR to:
(a) open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, and thereafter maintain for purp'ses of Parts A and D of
the Project, a Project Account in a commercial bank for payment
of expenditures under Parts A and D of the Project not financed
out of the proceed\' of the Credit;
(b) make into such Project Account an initial deposit of
fifty million CFAF (CFAF 50,000,000); and
(c) in addition to the initi=l deposit referred to in para-
graph (b) hereof, quarterly replenish the Project Account in an
amount of at least fifty million CFAF (CFAF 50,000,000) so that
the funds available in such Project Account shall at all times be-
sufficient to permit timely and efficient execution of Parts A
and D of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out a study on the role and structure of OFNAR;
(b) review with the Association the recommendations of said
study not later than September 30, 1987; and


﻿-5-
(c) promptly implement such recommendations of said study
as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) take all necessary actions to improve collection of
fuel taxes and accordingly increase OFNAR's revenues to at least
CFAF 800,000,000 in Fiscal Year 1987;
(b) carry out a study on road user charges, review with
the Association the recommendations of said study not later than
September 30, 1987 and promptly implement such recommendations of
said study as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-.
ciation, including measures to increase the transport sector's
revenues and improve the sector's cost recovery; and
(c) take all necessary actions to further increase OFNAR's
revenues in Fiscal Year 1988 and in each Fiscal Year thereafter,
in amounts sufficient to cover OFNAR's reasonable estimated fund-
ing needs for the Fiscal Year concerned.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out a study on the organization, the liberali-
zation and management of the trucking industry;
(b) review with the Association the recommendations of said
study not later than March 31, 1988; and
(c) promptly implement such recommendations of said study
as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not later than September 30
of each year submit to the Association for review, a transport
sector investment and expenditure program for the following
Fiscal Year.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrover shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or


﻿-6-
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account and the
Project Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the Fiscal Year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exam-
ine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,


﻿-7-
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the ferries included
in the Project and its workshops, road maintenance equipment and
related facilities to be operated and adequately maintained and
shall cause all necessary repairs and replacements thereof to be
made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its priority road
network to be reasonably maintained and promptly repaired in
accordance with sound engineering praqtices, and shall provide or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources requir d for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take reasonable measures to
enforce its traffic laws and shall inform the Association from
time to time on the actions taken and proposed to be taken in
this connection.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause OFNAR:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and engineering
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff Ln adequate numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
administratidve practices.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or credit made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor, or
(ii) any such credit shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
maturing is not caused by the failure of the Bor-
rower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and con-
ditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Soction 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-9-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the account referred to under Sec-
tion 3.03 (a) of this Agreement has been opened and the initial
deposit referred to under Section 3.03 (b) has been made.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment in respect of a particular Credit Agreement referred to in
Section 5.01 (a) shall cease and determine on the date any such
agreement shall terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre Chargf du Plan
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINPLAN                            5201 KD or
5307 KD
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By 1N A"a4                        A oum&
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1,   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the' percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Parts'A and
D of the
Project:
(a) Civil works for       1,400,000        95%
buildings and
equipment
(b) Road main-            2,250,000        100%
tenance
equipment
(c) Spare parts for         580,000        80%
road equipment
(d) Technical             2,280,000        100%
assistance
and training
(e) Road main-            2,330,000        80%
tenance by
contract or
force account
(2) Part B of the
Project:
(a), Civil works          1,340,000        100%
for access road
construction by
contract or
force account


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) Equipment and           340,000        100%
spare parts
(3) Consultants'               3,080,000        100%
services for
Part C of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                3,500,000
TOTAL               17,100,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 850,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) (d) and (e)
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after May 1, 1986.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to implement an emergency
program for highway maintenance, through: (i) the rehabilitation
and maintenance of high priority roads, bridges and ferries; and
(ii) strengthening of the Borrower's institutions responsible for
the highway sector, consisting of staff training programs,
studies and technical assistance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   OFNAR
1.   (a) Rehabilitation and re-equipping of existing bui.ldings
and facilities in OFNAR's subdivisions of N'Djamena,
Moundou and Sarh; and
(b) Constructing and equipping of new office buildings and
workshops in the subdivision of Mongo.
2.   Repairs and maintenance of road equipment.
3.   Acquisition of: (a) spare parts for further maintenance of
OFNAR's maintenance equipment; and (b) equipment to complete at
least one road maintenance brigade per subdivision.
4.   Assistance to OFNAR's subdivisions in the fields of manage-
ment and staff training.
Part B:   Rehabilitation and Construction of Roads
1.   Upgrading  or  construction  of  access  roads   at  Onoko,
Moissala, and at the Lere Bridge.
2.   Acquisition of a 40 ton ferry at Onoko and acquisition of
spare parts for the overhaul of the ferry at Moissala.
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening
1.   MTCA:  strengthening of GDT's technical capacity including
upgrading of local staff, sector planning and management.


﻿- 14 -
2.   MPWHUD:  strengthening of GDPW's technical capacity in road
planning and management, including traffic counts and analysis of
administrative records, geotechnical studies on the use of local
soils in road construction, study of incentives for routine road
maintenance by local communities or small contractors, and donor
coordination.
3.   Carrying out of the following studies:
(a) by GDPW:
(i) study on OFNAR's role and organization;
(ii) study on road user charges, road maintenance
needs, and measures to increase OFNAR's revenues
to meet anticipated needs;
(iii) feasibility   study  of   the  Guelengdeng-Moundou
corridor and engineering design for the selected
alignment; and
(iv) engineering of the N'Djamena industrial road;
(b) by GDT:
study on the trucking industry.
Part D:   Routine Maintenance
1.   Maintenance by contract of the Lere-Moundou-Sarh road.
2.   Routine maintenance of the newly rehabilitated roads.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULZ 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   Inteiiational Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Chad may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of. the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil and road maintenance works estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be procured by force account or
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association; provided, however, that emergency maintenance
works for the Sarh-Moundou-Lere road estimated to cost the
equivalent of about $1,700,000 shall be procured under a contract
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 16 -
Part E. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceAing subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on azcount of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
CFAF 720,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account 'with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments iade out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 18 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such,
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Category shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 19 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


