Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4344-Gu
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt8i.0 MILLION
TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
June 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distrioution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diszlosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Foreign Exchange Rate       Parallel Foreign Exchange Rate
US$1.00 - Q (quetzal) 1.00               US$1.00 - Q  2.50
Q  1.00 - US$1.00                    Q  1.00 - US$0.40
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
t (metric ton)                         m  1,000 kgs (2,205)
kcal (kilocalorie)                     -  3,968 Btu (British thermal units)
T.o.e. (ton oil equivalent)             m  10.7 million kcal approx.
1 barrel (bbl)                         -  42 US gallons - 159 liters
I kilovolt(kV)                            1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (kW)                        =  1,000 watts (kW)
1 megawatt (MW)                        -  1,00U kilowatts (kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                  n  1,000 watt hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                  -  1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)                =  1,000 kilovolt ampere (kVA)
1 kilometer (km)                       =  0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)               = 0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CABEI     =  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
EBASCO    =  Electric Bond and Share Company (U.S.A.)
EEG       =  Empresa Electrica de Guatemala S.A.
EMPAGUA   =  Empresa de Agua Potable de Guatemala
FIV       =  Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
IDB       =  Inter-American Development Bank
INDE      =  Instituto Nacional'de Electrificacion
MEM       = Ministry of Energy and Mines
MCTPW     =  Ministry of Communications, Transports and Public Works
OPEC      =  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
UNICAP    =  Unidad Cooidinadora de la Administration Public de Guatemala
USAID     =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMtMY
Borrower:       Instituto Nacional de Electrification (INDE)
Guarantor:     Republic of Guatemnla
Executing      Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE); Empresa Electrica
Agencies:    de Guatemala, S.A. (EEG)
Amount:         US$81.0 million
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at the Bank standard variable rate.
Relending      INDE would transfer US$35.0 million equivalent of the proceeds of
Terms:       the loan to a trust fund which would onlend to EEG on the same
terms and conditions of the loan. EEG would bear the foreign
exchange and interest risks.
Project         The Project would serve to:  (i) expand and improve the
Objectives:  subtransuission and distribution systems in the areas served by
EEG; (ii) improve the operating reliability of INDE's system and
the efficiency of INDE's operations; and (iii) complete the
necessary studies to ensure that a decision on the next power
generation expansion can be based on consideration of all
available options. The project would also seek to improve the
efficiency of the sector through: (i) the implementation of
personnel, tariff and accounting measures in INDE; .(ii)
reductions in INDE's workforce, as efficiency improvements are
achieved; (iii) improved coordination between INDE and EBG; and
civ) training of INDE's and EEG's staff.
Project        The project consists of the following components:  (i) a slice of
Description: EEG's subtransmission and distribution expansion for the period
1987-93 including a rural electrification program; (ii) INDE's
construction and equipping of a National Control Center of the
country's electric power system and expansion of the
communication systems; Ciii) rehabilitation of INDE's two steam
units at Escuintla; (iv) completion of INDE's studies for the
Chulac and Xalala hydro projects; (v) acquisition by INDE of
vehicles, laboratory instrumentation and a digital computer with
peripherals and software; (vi) INDE's and EEG's staff four-year
training program; and (vii) technical assistance to INDE in the
financial, planning and administrative areas.
Benefits        The proposed project would help improve the power sector's
and Risks:   efficiency and would allow meeting minimum system expansion
requirements consistent with present load growth expectations.
The project faces no major physical risks and entails no
detrimental environmental effects. Implementation of tariff
increases, and staff restructuring and reductions sought under
the project might be delayed, should the present wide political
This document has a rsicted distribution and may be used by ipients only in the performance
of their official duti Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
support to the newly elected Governumt become weaker. Project
execution may also be affected if the Cove,rment is unable to
move as quickly as planned in carrying out its economic
adJustment efforts.
Estimated ProJect Cost                                      US$ milion -
Foreign    Local      Total
EEG Component
69 kV Lines and substations                     4.1        2.5        6.6
Urban Dlstribution                             11.1        8.0       19.1
Rural Electrification                           3.9        2.4        6.3
Communications                                  1.3        0.4        1.7
Vehicles                                        2.9        0.4        3.3
Training                                        0.7        0.2       0.9
EEG Base Cost                                  24.0       13.9      37.9
INDE Component
Thermal Plant Rehabilitation                    6.0        0.6        6.6
Control Center  and Communications             13.5        5.5       19.0
Chulac and Xalala Studies                       6.2        3.0        9.2
Computer Center                                 0.4        0.1        0.5
Vehicles                                        2.3        0.5        2.8
Laboratory Equipment                             1.3       0.4        1.7
-Training                                        0.7        0.2       0.9
Technical Assistance                            0.7        0.2        0.9
INDE Base Cost                                 T,         10.5      41.6
Total Base Cost 1/                                   55.1      24.4       79.5
Physical Contingencies                                5.9       2.4        8.3
Subtotal                                       61.0       26.8      87.8
Price Contingencies                                  13.8       6.4       20.2
Total Project Cost                                   74.8      33.2      108.0
Financial Charges                                    25.2       -         25.2
Total Financing Requirements                        100.0      33.2      133.2
Financing Plan:
Dank Loan                                      81.0        -        81.0
EG/BINDE Funds                                 19.0       33.2      52.2
Total                                       100.0       33.2     133.2
Estimted
Disbursements:      Bank FY   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Annual     5.1  15.8  19.2  19.0  11.1   7.9   2.5   0.4
Cumulative  5.1  20.9  40.1  59.1  70.2  78.1  80.6  81.0
Rate of Return: 12 percent on INDE's and EEG's investment program.
Map: IBRD No. 19425
1/ At May 1986 price level (US$1.00 - Q2.50). The local costs include
taxes and other duties estimated at USS5.9 million.



REPORT AND RECOOINMNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRE.TORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
WITH THE GUARMTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUEMALA
FOR A POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1. *I submit the folloding report and recommndation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$81.0 million to Instituto Nacional de
Electrificacion (INDE) with the guarantee of the Republic of Guatemala to
assist iti the financing of a Power Distribution Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including five years of grace; at the standard
variable interest rate. INDE would transfer US$35.0 million of the
proceeds of the loan to a trust fund which would onlend such amount to
Empresa Electrica de Guatemala (EEG) at the same interest rate, term and
grace period of the proposed Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "GuatemAla Economic Memorandum' (Report No.
4195-GU) was circulated to the Board in June 1983. A Bank economic mission
visited Guatemala in November 1985 and its report is in preparation. The
main findings of the mission are summarized below. A summary of the main
social and economic indicators is attached as Annex I.
Economic Resources and Structure
3.        The country's varied climate and wide distribution of good soils
allow cultivation of a variety of agricultural products, including coffee,
tropical crops, and high value cool weather fruit and vegetables. The
country has some petroleum and nickel deposits, a substantial
hydro-electric power potential, and some exploitable geothermal fields.
Because of its natural beauty, year-long mild climate, archaeological
monuments, and proximity to the United States, Guatemala has a good
potential for tourism development.
4.        The small size of the country makes external markets important to
growth, while making the economy vulnerable to fluctuations in its terms of
trade. The traditional source of Guatemala's growth his been agricultural
exports, mostly produced on large plantations, with coffee and cotton alone
accounting for more than half of total exports until the mid-197Os.
Nanufactured goods grew to nearly 30 percent of total exports during



-2-
1978-80, with 80 percent going to countries within the Central American
Common Market (CACH) because of high rates of effective protection.
Tourism expanded to rank third after coffee and cotton as a foreign
exchange earner in the oid-1970s, but decreased severely as security
conditions detc:iorated in 1980-81.
5.        The population of about 7.9 million (mid-1985) is growing at
about 2.9 percent per year, one of the fastest rates in the world. A
majority lives in severe poverty, primarily in the subsistence economies of
most rural Indian villages. Two-thirds of the population have incomes
below the poverty level, including nearly three million with less than $200
per capita, or less than one-fifth of the national average, Seventy-three
percent of children one to five years of age suffer malnutrition, and
infant mortality is high (66 per thousand). Sixty percent of the
population do not have access to piped water, and 75 percent lack suitable
systems of excreta disposal. For rural areas, the figures are 86 percent
and 83 percent, respectively. Life expectancy for Indians is approximately
45 years, compared to 70 years for non-Indians. The average adult literacy
rate is only 45 percent, one of the lowest in Latin America. Only about 20
percent of Indians speak Spanish, and their literacy in any language is
estimated at 29 percent, compared to 70 percent among the rest of the
population.
Economic Growth
6.        Guatemala enjoyed steady and substantial economic growth with a
low rate of inflation between 1965 and 1978. GDP grew at six percent per
year., fostered by favorable world prices for the country's commodity
exports, growth of manufactured goods to CACQ countries, and expansion of.
tourism. The private sector played a major role in diversifying exports by
developing cotton and sugar production, and by creating the largest
industrial sector in Central America. The relatively small public sector
mainly provided basic infrastructure, while low public revenues and
expenditures seriously limited the growth of social and economic services.
A steady inflow of private investment helped maintain a comfortable balance
of payments position with substantial exchange reserves, low levels of
foreign debt, and a strong currency.
7.        The country has experienced serious economic difficulties since
1979, caused mainly by (i) falling demand and prices for commodity exports
and rising prices of imports, which led to a 24 percent deterioration in
the terms of trade; (ii) economic and political difficulties in Central
America which adversely affected exports of manufactures to the CACH; and
(iii) unsettled political conditions in Guatemala which discouraged private
investment and foreign financing, and stimulated private capital outflows.
These unfavorable developments resulted in a deceleration in GDP growth
from five percent in 1978 to a negative one percent per year in 1981-85.
In 1985, real GDP per capita was 18 percent below its 1980 level;
unemployment and underemployment were almost 50 percent higher, estimated
at over 40 percent of active population.



-3-
Fiscal and Balance of Payments Performance
8.        Financial stability and a favorable climate for domestic and
foreign-investors were the main objectives of Governmnet policies until the
late 1970s. Key policy elements were a stable currency at par with the US
dollar, freedom from external payments restrictions, minimal taxation, and
generally low public deficits, at less than two percent of GDP. However,
very high industrial protection through the CACH common tariff resulted in
excessive dependence on the regional market. Public expenditure was low
compared with that of countries at a similar stage of development: current
expenditures fluctuated around four percent of GDP, public investment
around nine percent, and public revenues around 12 percent. Foreign
borrowing, mostly from development agencies, was kept at modest levels.
These policies resulted in insufficient public expenditure for the social
sectors; basic services in education, health and rural development remained
inadequate. The pattern of economic growth benefited only a small segment
of the population, exacerbated economic dualism, kept the country
vulnerable to fluctuations in world demand for a few commodities, and
constrained industrial development because of the limited size of the CACM.
9.        A sharp departure from cautious fiscal and monetary policies took
place in 1980-81. In an effort to stimulate the economy, the Governmunt
doubled the level of public investment to 8.0 percent of GDP. However, a
sharp decline in fiscal revenues from foreign trade and domestic production
brought about a substantial increase in the public deficit, which reached
7.1 percent of GDP in 1981. The growing deficit was financed mostly
through an expansion of Central Bank credit to the Central Government, and
relaxation of monetary restraint supported a large outflow of private
capital while interest rate ceilings on bank loans and deposits-(11 percent
and 9 percent, respectively), were lower than in foreign markets. Domestic
inflation reached only 11-12 percent per year, reflecting the moderating
effects of the draw-down of exchange reserves to finance imports. The
balance of payments, however, worsened dramatically. Imports rose,
reflecting the increase in public sector investment, and compounded the
effect of falling exports. In an attempt to stem the massive outflow,
controls on capital payments were introduced. In October, 1981, Guatemala
received assistance from the IME totalling US$110 million. Nevertheless,
at the end of 1981 net foreign exchange reserves fell to US$23.5 million,
down from US$733 million in 1978, when they were equivalent to 5.3 months
of imports.
10.       To redress the deteriorating situation the Rios Montt Government
undertook a series of austerity measures in 1982-83, aimed at containing
the disequilibrium in public-finances and balance of payments. To this
purpose, public wages and salaries were frozen, the number of public
employees was reduced, and execution of premature and dubious investment
projects was halted. As a result, the public sector deficit was cut to 4.3
percent of GDP. The rate of inflation decreased from about 11 percent to
6.5 percent. The current account deficit of the balance of payments also
decreased, to about 2.6 percent, as imports declined much more rapidly than
exports and net short term capital outflow dropped.



-4-
11.       Based on the above austerity measures as well as an increased tax
effort, the Government reached agreement with the DHF on a stand-by
arrangement of US$120 million equivalent covering the period August 1983 -
December 1984. The key measure in the program was tax reform which became
effective in July 1983, and was designed to (i) stimulate exports through
the phasing out of existing export taxes; and (ii) produce a net increase
in tax revenues which the Government estimated at 2.1 percent of GDP,
mainly through the introduction of a ten percent value added tax rebateable
to exporters in place of an existing sales tax.
12.       This stabilization effort was interrupted when a new Government
took office in August 1983, and did not press for stabilization measures
fearing disruption of its policy to prepare for free elections of a
civilian government after thirty years of military rule. In the absence of
appropriate corrective actions, financial problems became more acute. The
value added tax rate was reduced to seven percent, resulting in the loss of
the expected increase in revenues. Since the fiscal targets were not met,
the DMF stopped disbursing under the standby arrangement in mid-1984.
13.       As the economic situation deteriorated, the Government took a
number of measures in an effort to defend the official parity of the
quetzal. These included a substantial increase in short-term borrowing by
the Central Bank and the Government. Exceedingly complex exchange
regulations were also introduced providing for the conversion at the
parallel market of different shares of export receipts for different
products and services. The exchange system became unmanageable, and a
source of uncertainties for entrepreneurs. As a result, non-coffee export
growth was negligible, despite a significant depreciation of the Quetzal in
real effective terms of about 35 percent on a trade weighted basis.
14.      The complex exchange regulations and the insufficient tax effort
(equivalent to only 7.8 percent of GDP) were at the center of a sharp
fiscal deterioration. As export proceeds surrendered to the Ce4tral Bank
at the official rate were insufficient to cover payments at the official
rate, the Central Bank filled this gap through purchases in the parallel
market and thus incurred losses equivalent to four percent of GDP. As a
result, the combined fiscal deficit and losses of the Central Bank
increased from about four percent of GDP in 1984 to about six percent in
1985. This increase brought about an acceleration of money in circulation
which put pressure on both the inflation rate and the parallel market rate:
the latter reached 3.8 per US dollar in September/October, and has since
fluctuated around the 3.0 level; inflation increased to reach an annual
rate of about 31.5 percent. Arrears in external trade payments reached
USS580 million, of which US$320 million have been settled with 5-year US
dollar bonds issued by the Government and accepted by foreign creditors.
Government's Strategy and Program
15.       The civilian Government which took office in January 1986 has
stated its intention to take action urgently on stabilization and
adjustment problems. Its basic strategy is to concentrate on stabilizing
the economy through a reduction of financial imbalances as a prerequisite
of economic adjustment. The main development objective is the reduction of



poverty and the consolidation of a stable domestic environment, to attract
foreign investment and achieve a sustained rate of economic development.
The Government intends to achieve this objective principally through the
support of private production -particularly of agro-industry--to increase
industrial exports outside Central America and achieve some import
substitution. The resulting employment generation and expansion of the
domestic market, together with an increase of the productivity of the poor
through more efficient basic services, would augment the opportunities for
a wider participation in the benefits of economic growth.
16.       To implement the above strategy, the Guatesilan Congress has
approved a program of short-term measures which is the basis for
negotiations for a sta'ad-by arrangement with the IMF. The main focus of
the program is on stanilization measures in 1986 to: i) seek a reduction
of the combined deficit of the Central Goverment and the Central Bank to
2.5 percent, mainly through the valuation of imports, for the purpose of
import taxes, at the parallel market rate inwtead of the official rate; a
selective consumption tax on luxury items; and a temporary windfall export
tax, mainly on traditional commodities; and ii) simplify the exchange rate
system to make it more supportive of efficient resource allocation by
establishing a regulated parallel market rate, initially set at Q2.5 -
US$1.0, for trade transactions, capital flows, and service payments for
debt disbursed after May 1986; the 6fficial rate of Ql.0 - US$1.0 is to be
applied only to the servicing of external debt disbursed before end May
1986, and the exchange rate for a limited mmber of service transactions
(mainly tourism receipts, and workers' remittances) will fluctuate freely.
These measures will be complemented by tight monetary and credit policies,
flexibO.e interest rates, and a reduction in price controls. The short-term
program also includes measures for the promotion and diversification of
exports-in addition to the beneficial effect that the above streamlining
of the exchange system will have. The program also seeks poverty reduction
through increased employment, availability of essential medicines to the
poor, improvement of school lunches, availability of textbooks in primary
schools, and support of the use of modern agricultural inputs by small
farmers through a temporary (one year) cost subsidy.
17.       Implementation of the proposed adjustments under the short-term
program would represent a significant step in addressing the serious
economic situation, and a creditable effort for the first year the
Government is in office. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes that a
number of measures additional to those now considered requires preparation
in 1986 and implementation in 1987 to strengthen the prospects of economic
recovery. These measures include the consolidation of and further progress
in the mobilization of resources through measures substituting for the
temporary windfall tax on exports; further efforts to reduce the industrial
protection which is provided by the regional tariff; strengthening direct
incentives for non-regional exports; and further progress towards
unification of the foreign exchange rates. As regards public investment
planning, the General Secretariat for Planning (SEGEPLAN) has prepared a
program totalling Q2,388 million over the period 1986-90, which the Cabinet
intends to review in the light of the prospective amounts of domestic and
foreign resources.   The social sectors (mainly health, education and low
cost housing) account for 47 percent of the total; energy, communications
and transport for 36 percent; and the production sectors for 17 percent.



Medium-Term Prospects and Constraints
18.       Government authorities are aware -that, despite improved prospects
for 1986, Guatemala's economy remains vulnerable. Real GDP is expected to
remain unchanged aad the balance of payments is expected to Improve in
1986, with a reduction of the current deficit to about US$100 million,
compared with JS$250 million in 1985. The main factors of the improvement
would be a 12 percent increase in exports, mainly due to more favorable
coffee. prices, and the elimination of oil imports for electricity
paoluction (about US$69 million in 1985) resulting from the commissioning
of the Chlxoy hydropower project. There is a serious scarcity of foreign
exchange for the recovery of industrial production, which is 15 percent
below its 1981 level. Higher coffee exports and petroleum import savings
in 1986 wll represent a net gain of about US$200 million, equivalent to
about a third of the debt service obligations. Debt service ratios would
be high till 1989, between 32 and 40 percent, and require debt
rescheduling. Growth prospects are also constrained by the limited
prospects of the country's main traditional exports, the time needed to
expand the domestic and regional markets, the effort needed to develop
export industries, and the necessarily restricted growth of public
expenditures.
19.       Nevertheless, Guatmala's endowment of yet unexploited resources
and the expected decline in debt servicing burden after 1990 offer to the
Covernment a favorable basis for achieving economic recovery through the
implementation of feasible stabilization and adjustment measures. GDP
growth could accelerate gradually to 4-5 percent in 1990, and, average 3
percent in 1986-90, assuming timely actions on the part of the Governmunt
to streamline and stabilize the exchange system, reduce the combined fiscal
and Central Bank deficit, support non-regional exports, industrial
production and agriculture, and provide efficient basic services. Private
investment would recover in response to an appropriate policy framework and
benefit from the expansion of export opportunities, including those offered
by the Caribbean Basin Initiative, and the increased availability of credit
and external technical assistance to restructure manufacturing
enterprises. With exports growing faster than imports, and a levelling off
of debt service payments reflecting the effects of substituting long-term
official assistance for commercial debt, the deficit in the current account
of the balance of-payments could decline significantly in the late 1980s,
from close to four percent of GDP in 1985.
20.       Guatemala's ability to recover to a satisfactory rate of economic
growth and balance of payments position before the end of the decade will
require continued substantial international financial assistance. Debt
rescheduling would have to be provided by international commercial banks.
On a net basis, official lending would have to average about US$130 millio.
a year. This compares with an average official lending of US$150 million a
year during 1981-84. Guatemala would also have to maintain an active IMP
program during the period.



;*  - 7-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
21.       Apart from the Bank, official ext.rnal financing has been
provided primarily by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) and the U.S. Agency
for International Development (USAID). IDB funds carried a substantial
concessional element and often contained components repayable in local
currency. The IDB made loans for agriculture (credit, irrigation and
fisheries), electric power, transportation, rural education, water supply,
and health services. CABEI concentrated mainly on regional projects in
highways, telecommunications, and in recent years, on power and water
supply projects. Venezuela assisted mostly in power generation and
transmission. USAID financed mainly rural development, rural
electrification, rural education and health facilities.
22.       In 1985, outstanding and disbursed medium- and long-berm public
external debt amounted to 23 percent of GDP. Debt service payments on that
debt were equivalent to 29.6 percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services, and are projected to peak at 40.4 percent in 1986.
International agencies accounted for 31 percent of total disbursed and
outstanding debt in 1985, with the Bank group holding about 9 percent of
this total. Of other major lenders to Guatemala, 1DB holds 17 percent of
external public debt outstanding, CABEI 5 percent, Venezuela 10 percent,
and the USAID 6 percent.
23.       Assuming that the Government will carry out its plans to
restructure economic incentives, public finances, and external debt, and
that it will use external debt capacity prudently to address the problems
in productive sectors and in a few main social areas in order to reactivate
the economy and expand public services for the urban and rural poor,
external debt indicators are expected to improve by 1990. Under these
conditions, Guatemala is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       Guatemala to date has received Bank loans totaling US$390.6
million (including US$20 million on third window terms) for 15 projects.
Of these, three were for education; four for power; three for
telecomimmications; two for highways; two for earthquake reconstruction;
one for livestock development; and one for industrial credit. Ten
Bank-financed projects have been completed in Guatemala, four in electric
power, two each in telecromunications and education, and one each in
livestock and highways. Performance audit reports have been issued for two
power projects, and the livestock, education and telecommunications
projects. The performance audits conclude that project objectives
generally have been achieved; however, implementatior has been much slower
than forecast during appraisal. Effectiveness of all Bank loans has been
delayed because of a lengthy ratification process. Most projects now under
implementation have also been delayed by the limited administrative
capacity of the institutions involved as well as weak inter-agency
coordination. However, disbursements of Bank loans have reachea a
satisfactory pace in the past two years, as the Government placed greater



-8-
emphasis on Improving the quality of public sector management. Two large
power projects have accounted for the bulk of disbursements since 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1986.
.25.       Bank financing for infrastructure projects has supported the
creation of more efficient public agencies. It also has ceen instrumental
in maintaining a Bank presence in the country through lending-operations,
while continuing a dialogue with the authorities on the desirability and
implementation of a larger development effort. Bank lending for education
has more directly encouraged the undertaking of key development challenges
we believe the Government faces -such as expanding the provision of basic
services, both productive and social, to the rural and urban poor, and
supporting the formation of a modern industrial private sector- with the
objective of promoting economic diversification and easing the growing
social tensions which have characterized Guatemala's recent past. The
Basic Education Project (Loan 2328-GU) has supported the establishment of
an agency for low cost textbook production including bilingual texts to
improve access to schcol by Indians. It aLso made school construction more
efficient by merging the numerous responsible entities into one agency.
Policy improvements in bilingual education, curriculum development,
textbooks, and education planning are also part of the project.  To
i'crease the access of the poor to ownership of their dwelling, draft urban
land legislation was prepared under Loan 1315-GU (Earthquake Reconstruction
Project). This legislation, which also provides for rationalizing urban
land use and reducing land speculation, is scheduled for high priority
consideration by the new Congress. Under the Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 2383-GU), the Government increased fiscal incentives, relieved some
exporters from import restrictions, and expanded import tax exemptions to
promote manufacturing exports to markets outside the region. The project
includes technical assistance to enterprises and private financial
intermediaries to prepare and implement export projects. Under the
project, the Government will review and strengthen the existing systen of
export incentives, institutional framework and financial mechanisms, with
particular attention to small-scale enterprises. Under the Third
Telecommunications Project (Loan 2385-GU), the national telephone agency
started to transfer to the Government 45 percent of net revenues (US$13-15
million annually) which are in excess of the agency's investmunt financing
requirements. The agency also is introducing organizational improvements
required by a major increase in the size of its operations. Encouraging
progress has been made also in the Bank's dialogue on issues in the power
sector (paras. 38-40). Co-financing with suppliers and bilateral sources
was arranged for both the Third Telecommunications Project and the Chixoy
supplemental loan (Loan 1605-1-GU).
26.       IFC has made three investments in Guatemala. The first, a
US$200,000 loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The
second, a loan of US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras
Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL), a company established in Guatemala to exploit the
nickel ore deposit at Lake Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in
July, 1973. After some initial delays in finalizing the project design and
in arranging additional financing made necessary by substantial cost
overruns, the plant began operations in mid-1977. The third was a loan of
US$3.0 million to Cementos Progreso, S.A. (formerly Cementos Novella S.A.),



-9-
a GuatemAlan enterprise, to help finance an expansion of its existing
cement production facilities. The expansion was completed and commercial
operations started in 1979.
27.       The Bank is considering to support the Goverment's efforts to
achieve fiscal and balance of payments adjustment and a level of
development effort higher than in the past, by providing financial
resources and coordinating its lending with other major sources of external
assistance. The Bank's program could include lending to support pdlicy
changes as well as project-related financing for the development of
non-regional exports in industry and agriculture; improved management and
efficiency of public institutions in electricity, water supply, and
municipal services; efficient services in oural development and health; and
rolhailitation of marginal urban areas.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Resources
28.       Gross energy consumption in Guatemala is low, equivalent to 0.47
tons of oil equivalent per capita, which is about 10 percent below the
Central American average. In 1984, the industrial sector accounted for
about 20 percent of total consumption, transportation for 13 percent, the
residential'and commercial sectors for 66 percent, and agriculture for the
remaining 1 percent.  While petroleum and hydrologic resources have been
growing in importance, they only accounted for 3 percent and 24 percent of
consumption respectively in 1984. A high proportion of total energy,
estimated at 71 percent ln 1984, is still derived from wood and bagasse.
Forest resources are important, but may be deplkted by the turn of the
century unless other energy resources are developed and the Government's
programs of reforestation are carried out.
29.       Domestic production of crude oil averaged 4,900 barrels per day
'i 1981-85, and covered only about 20 percent of domestic consumption.
Proven reserves are estimated at about 9 million barrels, equivalent to one
year of consumption. The Government plans to step up exploration of
extensive areas of potentially rich oil-bearing strata which are still
unexplored. The domestic price of gasoline (Q2.92-3.10 equivalent to
USM1.17-1.24 per gallon) and diesel oil (Q1.70 equivalent to US$0.68 per
gallon) are in line with international prices.
30.       Natural gas is flared at oil fields at a rate of about 1.5
million =3 per manth, and is being considered for electricity generation.
Geothermal potential for electricity production has been explored in the
past with limited success. So far, only a 15 NW installation at Zunil has
been proven feasible; it is scheduled for commissioning in 1991.
Exploration continues and a number of pre-feasibility studies for other
projects are under way.



- 10 -
31.       The country has a large, technically exploitable hydroelectric
potential which is estimated at about 5000 MS, or six times the present
installed capacity. Although the number of residential consumers increased
at about 7.4 percent p.a. from 1979 to 1985, i.e., well above the
population growth rate (2.9 percent), only 28 percent of the total
population received electricity service at the end of the period, compared
with 36 percent in El Salvador, 45 percent in Nicaragua, and 79 percent in
Costa Rica. Electricity consumption per capita, estimated at 156 kWh, also
is low by Central American standards.  The Government is aware that
electricity must be made available to a greater proportion of the
population, and has a number of rural electrification programs to meet this
objective. The proposed project addresses this issue through the expansion
of the distribution network (para. 41).
Sector Organization and Coordination
32.       Public electricity service is prbvided by INDE, EEG and ten small
municipal utilities. INDE was created in 1959 as a government-owned
institution responsible for power generation and transmission, rural
electrification, the supply of bulk electricity, and retail distribution
outside the area of the capital city. EBG, a former subsidiary of Boise
Cascade (USA), became a mixed public and private enterprise in 1977, with
92 percent of its shares owned by the Government and the remainder by
private shareholders.
33.       Till the early 1980's, lack of coordination and institutional
weakness of lIE have been major problems in the energy sector. EEG
operated thermal generation and electricity distribution in Guatemala city
and its environs, i.e. the most profitable portion of the market, with
sales concentrated in a small area comprising most industrial and high
income users. As a resultf a significant part of the sector's financial
resources was generated by EEG. Because of resistance by EEG, INDE was for
many years unable to obtain a share of the sector's cash generation in
accordance with its investment needs to meet the required expansion of
generation capacity and provision of service to remote, low income rural
areas. As a result, installation of new generation capacity did not always
keep pace with growing needs, and there have been periods of service
interruptions.
34.       Over the last five years, the Government has taken a number of
significant steps to improve coordination and develop INDE's institutional
capacity.  First, a Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEK) was created in 1983
to formulate the country's energy policies, coordinate planning activities,
and take executive responsibilities for the development of hydrocarbons.
Second, the Government transferred to INDE its shares in EEG, completed a
number of studies to strengthen INDE, increased its planning capacity,
nominated the same President for INDE and EEG, and created a joint INDE-EEG
committee to coordinate the system's operation.   Lastly, the Government
established in 1985 a commission presided over by the Ministry of Energy
and Mines and comprising the Minister of Economy, the Secretary General of
Planning, and the President of INDE to formulate policies for the power
sector, including development strategy, investment plans, and tariffs. The
responsibility for overall supervision of INDE was shifted from the
Ministry of Canmunications, Transport and Public Works to MEM.



- 11 -
Power Sector Development Plan
35.       The power sector investment program for 1987-93 totals US$516
milUon at May 1986 prices.  It aims at keeping expansion to the minimum
compatible with ensuring that the expected load growth can be met with an
appropriate level of reliability. About 58 percent of the program is for
overdue investments in transmission (including interconnection with El
Salvador and Honduras), distribution, system communications and control,
and planning studies; 42 percent is for generation, including construction
of a 68 MW (Santa Marlit II) hydropower project, and two geothermal plants
(Zunil I, 15 MS, and ZUaLi iI, 55 MW) and the rehabilitation of the 86 MW
Escuintla steam units (para. 47). The program includes a rural
electrification component, aiming at increasing by 40 percent the number of
rural consumers. The proposed project is an integral part of this program.
36.       INDE has about one and a half years to complete feasibility
studies of hydropower, geothermal and natural gas projects, to analyze
generation alternatives, and to prepare new generation anti transmission
programs. Under the proposed project, INDE would: (i) engage by March 31,
1987, consultants for the updating and completion of the feasibility
studies of two large and complex hydroelectric projects, Chulac (440MW) and
Zalala (360 MW), under terms of reference which would be submitted for the
Bank's review no later than October 31, 1986; (ii) complete by December 31,
1987, the other feasibility studies required for updating the sector's
Master Plan for generation/transmission; and (iii) submit such expansion
program, based on a least-cost analysis of alternatives, to the Bank by
March 31, 1988. The proposed loan would finance the necessary-
hydrogeological investigations and studies foi Chulac and Xalala.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
37.       The Bank has supported the development of the Power Sector in
Guatemala since 1967, through four loans to INDE totalling US$193.6
million. A project performance audit report prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department on the First Power Project (Loan 487-GU, 60 MW
Jurun-Marinala Hydroelectric Project) and the Second Power Project (Loan
545-GU, Thermal Power Project) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 14, 1985 (Report no. 625). A review of the power sector was
carried out in August 1975. The main conclusions of these reports were
that, although the Bank had played a large part in the expansion of
Guatemala's power supply and in helping to establish INDE as the main
institution in the power sector, it could have contributed more to the
solution of the two most serious problems - the sector's poor financial
performance arising mainly from the unsatisfactory arrangements between
INDE and EEG, and the lack of development of the country's hydroelectric
resources. Accordingly, Bank assistance was designed to address both these
problems through the financing of the Aguacapa Hydropower Project (Loan
1426-GU) and Chixoy Hydropower Project (Loan 1605-GU).
38.       Through the construction of the Aguacapa Project (90MW,
comnissioned in 1981) and the Chixoy Project (300 MW, commissioned in
January 1986), the Bank assisted the country in doubling its installed
capacity to 867 MW, and in transforming a generation system 80 percent



- 12 -
dependent on oil into one totally relying on hydropower. As a result, fuel
consumption for, electricity generation is expected to be negligible in
1986, with savings of about 1.8 million barrels compared with 1985,
representing one-fourth of Guatemala's total oil consumption.
39.       In addition to promoting the coordination measures described
above in para. 34, the Bank also played a key role in: (i) stopping
construction in 1982 of Che insufficiently studied, large size Chulac
Hydropower Project; (ii) preventing the premature start of another
hydropower project, the Sta. Maria II; and (iii) shifting the
responsibility of the Chulac project to INDE and eliminating an wad hoc
unnecessary entity (HIDROCHULAC).  As regards the appropriate sharing of
the sector's cash generation between INDE and EEG to help finance the
respective investment needs, INDE's bulk sale rates to EEG were increased
by 20 percent in February 1985, in accordance with Section 5.05 of Loan
Agreement 1605-GU, which provides for tariff levels adequate to result in a
transfer from EBG to INDE of the funds available to EEG which are in excess
of its requirements for operations, repayment of debt, net working capital,
and capital expenditures.
40.       Since the expansion of efficient electricity services is
essential for the development of industry and services in Guatemala, to
promote an expansion of production and exports, there is a clear need for
further institutional improvements in the organizational, technical,
administrative and financial arrangements for the sector. To achieve these
objectives, the Government needs to continue efforts to (i) strengthen
INDE's capacity, to plan and execute investment programs effectively and
generate an adequate share of its investment needs, thus enabling it to
play a leading role in the sector; and (ii) increase the sector's.
efficiency by specializing the functions of INDE in power generation and
transmission, and those of EEG in distribution over the whole national
territory, including rural electrification.
41.       The proposed project is the first to include EEG and would seek
to promote closer coordination between INDE and EEG. It would also
Initiate EEG in the field of rural electrification. The proposed project
is designed to make further substantial progress in strengthening the
institutional framework of the sector by: (a) Improving coordination, staff
skills and tariff structure; (b) improving operational efficiency and
productivity of the sector through the reduction of system losses and the
increased reliability of power supply; (c) strengthening the planning of
generation expansion; and (d) increasing the availability of electricity
services through expansion of the distribution.
42.       As regards sector coordination, INDE and EEG would take measures
satisfactory to the Bank for the coordination in planning, operation and
investment financing of their respective systems. These measures would
include that INDE would exercise its right to designate its own president
and Board of Directors for election to the same positions in EBG. The Plan
of Action (Annex IV) provides for the creation by December 31,-1986 of
joint INDE-EEG committees for the planning of supply points, preparation of
demand projections, and programming of transmission lines and substations.



- 13 -
43.       The new Minister of Energy and Mines -a former manager of INDE
and private entrepreneur- recognizes that other adjustments will
subsequently be required to Improve the functioning of the sector and
further strengthen the institutional capacity of INDE as the entity
responsible for the coordination and expansion of electricity services.
These adjustments would entail a complete restructuring of responsibilities
between INDE and EEG for electricity generation and transmission, on one
side, and distribution, on the other. At the Governmnt's request, the
Bank is considering assistance for this effort under a subsequent loan.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background
44.       The project was identified in February 1981, was prepared by INDE
and EEG with the assistance of consultants, and was appraised in October
1982 and post appraised in May/June 1983. Further processing was
interrupted, pending the introduction of economic stabilization measures,
and was resumed through an updating of the appraisal in June 1985, and a
confirmation of the sector's priorities by the newly elected authorities in
February, 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 12 to 16,
1986. The Guatemalan delegation was led by Mr. Guillermo Salazar,
Director, Ministry of Finance. The main features of the loan and project
are described in Annex III.
Project Objectives
45.       The main project objectives are:
(a) to Improve the efficiency of the power sector by Ci) training
anagement and professional staff; (ii) providing technical
assistance to INDE for the implementation of measures recommended
by existing studies in the financial, administrative and planning
areas; (iii) improving the coordination between INDE and EEG and
promoting the distribution of cash generated in the sector in a
way appropriate to address INDE' s and EEG's respective investment
needs; (iv) gradually increasing the consumer/employee ratio in
ITDE; and (v) improving the mobilization of domestic resources
through rationalization of tariff structures;
(b) to improve the operating reliability of the INDE system by:
(i) rehabilitating the Escuintla steam plant to assure an
appropriate back-up to the hydropower generation system;
(ii) building and equipping a National Control Center and related
coaunications system to provide safe and economic operation of
the system; (iii) providing specialized maintenance vehicles to
improve preventive maintenance and reduce service restoration



-14-
times; (iv) acquiring instrumentation for an electronics
laboratory to expedite checking and repair of electrical
components of the protection, supervision, control and
communications system;
(c) to help prepare the generation expansion program by cdrrying out
the investigations and studies still needed to determine the
feasibility of the Chulac and Xalala projects;
(d) to expand the subtransmdssion and primary and secondary
distribution systems of BEG to (i) meet the demand for 1988-1993
with the hydropower energy already available; (ii) improve the
reliability of the distribution system; and (iii) connect new
conusmers to the grid, including rural areas.
46.       To achieve the institutional objectives indicated above, INDE and
EEG would: (i) implement a "Plan of Action for Institutional Development"
including the tasks and schedule presented in Annex IV; and (ii) submit to
the Bank through INDE by November 30 of each jear, a progress report on
such Plan of Action. The Government would enable INDE and EEG to comply
with the above provisions.
Project Description
47.       The project comprises the following components:
(a) KEG
- erection of 62 km of 69 kV lines and 87 HVA of 69/13.8 kV power
transformers; 960 km of 13.2 kV primary and secondary
distribution lines and 85 MVA of distribution transformers;
- acquisition of meters, protection equipment, switching equipment
and public lighting accessories; 100 operating and maintenance
vehicles; and a communications system between EEG's control
center and the major company facilities;
- implementation of a rural electrification program including 180
villages and 13,000 households, through construction of about 870
km of 13.2 kV primary and secondary lines, 8.5 MVA of
distribution transformers;
- implementation of a four-year staff training program;
(b) INDE
- construction and equipping of a National Control Center and
expansion of the related communications systems;
- rehabilitation of two steam units at the Escuintla thermal plant;
- acquisition of 90 operation and maintenance vehicles,
instrumentation for an electronic laboratory, and a digital
computer with peripherals and software;.



- 15 -
- additional geological investigations and completion of the
feasibility study for the Chulac Hydroelectric Project, and
completion of the feasibility study for the Xalala
hydroelectric project;
Project Cost
48.       The estimated total cost of the proposed project, including price
and physical contingencies, duties, and taxes, is US$108.0 million
equivalent, of which US$74.8 million equivalent (69 percent) are foreign
costs. A table at the beginning of this report shows the breakdown by
project components. Duties and taxes have been estimated at US$5.9
million. Total financing requirements, including financing charges
(US$25.2 million equivalent), are estimated at US$133.2 million equivalent,
of which US$100.0 million equivalent would be in foreign exchange. Project
component costs are based on detailed estimates at January 1985 prices and
have been adjusted to May 1986 price levels. Consultant services have been
estimated at 80 staff-months for the review and completion of the Xalala
and Chulac studies, 10 staff-months for the review of thermal plan
rehabilitation requirements, 80 staff-months for the supervision of the
dispatch center and communication system construction, and 290 staff-months
for training and technical assistance. Physical contingencies amount to
10.4 percent of the project base cost. They have been calculated, on the
basis of experience with similar projects, at 10 percent of base costs for
all components, including distribution, except for thermal plant
rehabilitation (20 percent), hydrogeological investigations of project
studies (15 percent), subtransmission (5 percent) and training and
technical assistance (0 percent). Price contingencies for foreign and
domestic costs have been calculated at about 7 percent annually for 1986-90
and 4 percent thereafter. Total price contingencies amount to 23 percent
of base cost including physical contingencies.
Financing Plan
49.       The Bank would finance: (i) US$71.5 million of the project cost,
representing nearly 96 percent of the total foreign cost; and (ii) US$9.5
million of financial charges maturing before June 30, 1990, to alleviate
the sector's already heavy servicing requirements arising from the external
debt contracted for the financing of the large hydropower projects built in
the past years. Since INDE is not authorized to onlend funds, INDE would
transfer US$35.0 million equivalent of the proceeds of the loan to a trust
fund which would onlend to EEG on the same terms and' conditions of the
loan. The signing of the trust fund agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. EEG would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risk. INDE and EEG would finance the local costs (US$33.2 million
ecuivalent) and US$19.0 million of foreign exchange financing requirements
from internally generated cash.
Project Implementation
50.       The Pioject would start in June 1986 and would be completed by
December 1993. All the engineering required for the distribution and rural
electrification works will be provided by EEG, which has adequate



-16-
.expertise. Distribution works, exclusive of the expansion of new primary
circuits, will be carried out by force account by EES, which has handled
satisfactorily a similar volume of works during the last few years.
Construction of the 69 kV lines and of new primary circuits will be carried
out by local contractors which have experience in this kind of work. A
feasibility study for the National Control Center and associated
commuications was completed in January, 1986. Under the proposed project,
INDE would hire consultants for the supervision of the construction and
equipping of the Control Center and the associated comunications system by
September 30, 1987. Terms of reference would be submitted for the Bank's
review no later than March 31, 1987. Texms of reference for hiring
consultant would be submitted to the Bank (i) no later than October 31,
1986, for the execution of the Chulac and Xalala studies (para. 36); and
(ii) no later than July 31, 1986, for consultant services in the financial,
planning and administrative areas (para. 55). A thermal rehabilitation
assessment is expected to be completed by independent consultants under an
existing IDB loan, and is expected to be submitted to the Bank by September
30, 1986. A detailed four-year plan for the training needs would be
prepared by consultants by April 30, 1987 (para. 55).
The Market
51.      Total electricity demand started increasing slowly in 1983, after
a modest decrease in 1980-82 due to declining economic activity and private
investment. Total consumption thus recovered in 1985 to 1243 GWh,
approximately equal to the 1979 level. While residential and commercial
consumption kept growing during this period, industrial consumption only
recovered to a modest level of growth in 1984-85 (3.5 percent p.a. after a
drop of 9.8 percent p.a. in 1980-83). Based on prospects for economic
recovery assisted by the stabilization and adjustment policies of the new
Government, consumption is projected to reach about 2,120 GWh in 1993, with
an annual average growth of 6.6 percent, well below the rate in 1971-79
(10 percent p.a.). There are no prospects of substantive demand from
neighboring countries, as the two countries which will be interconnected,
El Salvador and Honduras, will only need energy interchanges during
emergency periods.
52.      Electricity losses in the interconnected system have been high
during the last four years-an average of 16.9 percent of net generation
-both because of the postponement of investments in distribution and
inadequate control of losses. The proposed project is expected to: (i)
reduce from 15 percent to 10 percent the losses of EEG; and (ii) achieve a
better control of consumption and sales through improved metering, billing
and surveillance in INDE. Total system losses would thus decrease to about
13 percent by 1990.
Executing Agencies
INDE
53.      A new organizational framework for INDE was introduced in January
1986 taking into account studies financed under Bank loans. INDE's
seven-member Board is appointed by the Government. The President and
Vice-President are full time members with executive functions. Their



- 17 -
appointment is proposed by the Minister of Energy and Mines. The other
members are representatives of this Ministry as well as the Ministries of
Comummications, Transport, and Public Works; Finance; and Economy; and of
the General Secretariat of Planning. The current President and
Vice-President have long experience in the power sector and have held top
management positions in EEG in the past.
54.       INDE currently has about 7,600 employees (including 230
professionals). This staff level is excessive, since it results in a ratio
of 25 consumers per employee compared with 6G to 80 per employee for
utilities in most developing countries which is adequate. To address this
situation: (1) INDE would: (i) submit, no later than September 30, 1986, a
five-year progrm of staff restructuring and reduction, establishing
targets acceptable to the Bank, for increasing the ratio of consumers to
employee to not less than 40 by December 31, 1987, and not less than 75 by
December 31, 1991; and (ii) promptly carry out the program, taking into
consideration the Bank's comments; and (2) the Government agreed to enable
INDE to comply with the above provisions.
55.       INDE's staff is subject to Guatemalan civil service regulations,
which limit salary levels. As a result, INDE lacks qualified staff,
notably in the financial and administrative areas, and in the intermediate
management levels, since the private sector offers better salaries and work
conditions. The Plan of Action (Annex IV) provides for the exclusion of
xINDE's staff from the Guatemalan civil service regulations, and the
revision of INDE's salary levels and personnel regulations no later than
June 1987. Under the prQposed project, INDE would: (i) engage consultants
no later than October 31, 1986, under terms of reference to be submitted to
the Bank's review no later than July 31, 1986, to work directly with INDE's
staff in key positions and advise on important day-to-day management
problems, personnel administration, finances, planning, internal control
and management information systems; (ii) engage consultants no later than
October 31, 1986, to assist in the preparation and implementation of a
four-year staff training program under terms of reference to be submitted
to the Bank no later than July 31, 1986; (iii) submit such program to the
Bank by April 30, 1987; and (iv) prepare by October 31 every year a
detailed program of training activities for the following year, taking into
account the Bank's comments. The Plan of Action provides for specific
measures to improve the accounting system, budget management, internal
audit, and insurance management. External audit of INDE's accounts has
been performed satisfactorily. INDE would continue appointing independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and send to the Bank the audited financial
statements together with the auditor's reports within four months from the
end of each fiscal year.
EEG
56.       EEG is an efficient, well managed and profit-oriented entity
which follows sound managerial practices and operates outside the civil
service regulations. EEG's shareholders elect a Board of Directors which,
in turn, selects the President aud Vice-President of the company, and
appoints the General Manager. Under EEG's current organizational structure
four managers (Financial, Commercial, Administrative, and Operational)
report directly to the General Manager, as well as three staff units



- 18 -
(Planning, Legal, and Internal Auditor) and three regional agencies.
Adequate delegation of responsibility permits an efficient operation.
EEG's General Manager has wide experience in the Guatemalan power sector.
All other managers have worked for EEG for wore than ten years and have
acquired managerial expertise under the foimer private owners oE the
company.
57.       EEG employs 1,233 people (including about 50 professionals) and
plans to reach 1,600 in 1993. The ratio of consumers per employee is
excellent (225 in 1985; 231 in 1993). Since EEG staff is not subject to
the civil service regulations, adequate salary levels permit EEG to recruit
and retain well qualified personnel. EEG requires new equiprent, technical
assistance and additional overseas training for its comprehensive staff
training programs. Under the proposed project EEG would: (i) engage
consultants no later than October 31, 1986, to assist in the preparation
and implementation of a four-year training program under terms of reference
to be submitted to the Bank no later than July 31, 1986; (ii) submit such
pragram to the Bank by April 30, 1987; and (iii) present by October 31
every year a detailed program of the training activities for the following
year, taking into account the Bank's comments. The Plan of Action (Annex
IV).provides for Improvement of EEG insurance coverage.  EEG would appoint
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and send to the Bank the
audited financial statements together with the auditor's reports within
four months from the end of each fiscal year.



- 19 -
Procurement
58.       Procurement arrangements would be as follows:
Procurement Method
Procurement Element         (Amounts in US$zlllion equivalent) a/
ICB b/ LCB c/ IS/DP d/ FA e/ other f/ Total
Sub-Transmiss'on Equipment 4.9       0.4      0.2                        5.5
and Materials            (4.9)             (0.2)                      (5.1)
Distribution Equipment    26.9       1.6      1.4                       29.9
and Materials g/        (26.9)             (0.2)                     (27.1)
Dispatch Center/
Communications            18.2      1.7      0.9                       22.8
Equipment/Installat.   (18.2)                                        (18.2)
Generation Rehabilit.       8.2      0.3      0.4                       (9.6)
Equip./Assembling        (7.5)             (0.4)                      (8.6)
Computer/Lab. Equip.        1.8      0.3      0.4                        2.9
and Assembling           (1.8)             (0.4)                      (2.2)
Studies/Training                     1.4                       14.7     17.1
(0.9)h/                  (10.1)   (11.7)
Construction Works                  17.7               4.6              15.5
Total Project            60.0     25.4      3.3      4.6    14.7    108.0
(59.3)    (0.9)    (1.2)            (10.1)   (71.5)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank.
a/F  Includes import duties and sales taxes, which amount to USS5.9
illion.
b/   ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
cJ  JLCB - Local Competitive Bidding.
d/   ISIDP - International Shopping/Direct Purchase.
e/ FA - Force Account (to be supplied through EEG manpower).
f/   Consultants' services to be provided in accordance with Bank
guidelines. It also includes field and laboratory tests and core
drillings for the Chulac and Xalala feasibility studies and
construction supervision of the National Control Center and
commmication system.
l/ Includes vehicles.
hb   Construction of exploration galleries in connection with the Chulac
feasibility study.



- 20 -
59.       Equipment and materials would be procured under international
competitive bidding In accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", except for equipment estimated not to
exceed US$1,200,000 in total which would be procured through international
shopping (US$700,000 in contracts less than US$50,000 each) or direct
purchase (US$500,000) because of compatibility with existing equipment, or
limited number of suppliers which can meet the specifications. At the
Government's request, manufacturers of equipment and materials in member
countries of the Central American Common Market would have a margin of
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the C.I.F. cost or half the
amount of taxes on the importation of such goods, whichever is lower.
Regional manufacturers are likely to participate in bids for conductors and
concrete poles.
60.       Construction of the exploration galleries required for field
investigations of the Chulac Hydroelectric Project, estimated not to exceed
about US$1.4 million equivalent, would be procured under local competitive
tendering open to the participation of foreign bidders. Construction of
EEG's subtransmission and distribution primary lines, and of INDE's
building of the National Control Center and communications facilities wouLd
be contracted under EEG's and INDE's procurement procedures, which are
acceptable. For goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or
more the Bank would review and approve tender documents before they are
issued. For'civil works, model bidding documents and contracts would be
submitted to the Bank before advertising and tendering. Contracts for
goods above US$200,000 and civil works would be awarded after Bank's review
of the borrower's bid evaluation report. Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation covers 100 per cent of the total estimated value
of works contracts and about 90 per cent of gobds contracts. Consultants
would be selected and contracted in accordance with the "Guidelines for the
use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency.
Disbursements
61.       Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed for:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 93 percent of ex-factory
cost of local expenditures for electrical, electronic, and
mechanical equipment and parts; material for distribution,
subtransmission and communication plant; transportation
equipment; computer equipment;
(b) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services for
preinvestment studies, dispatch center and communications
construction supervision, and technical assistance;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training services;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment installation in
the dispatch center and communications system;



- 21 -
(e)  62 percent of total expenditures for construction of expioration
galleries related to preinvestuent studies (representing the
estimated foreign cost component);
(f)  70 percent of total expenditures for contractor services for
thermal plant rehabilitation (representing the estimated foreign
cost component);
(g) Financing charges accrued until June 30, 1990 up to a total
amount of US$9.5 million.
62.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of seven and
one half years, in accordance with the Bank's standard disbursement
profile. The Closing Date would be June 30, 1994. In order to facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account would be established in the Central Bank
(Banco de Guatemala) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
initial deposit in the Special Account would be US$4 million equivalent.
Disbursement requests would be fully documented, except-for imported goods
whose value is less than US$100,000 equivalent which would be based on
presentation of a statement of expenditures.
Financial Performance
63.       Between 1982 and 1984 the sector's financial position 's
burdened by the cost overruns and completion delays of the Chixoy project,
the resulting need to continue to use fuel, and a 5 percent decrease in
electricity sales compared with the 1979/1981 period. Notwithstanding
electricity rates at the highest level in Central America, the average
contribution to investment was only 13 percent, and the sector had to rely
on government contributions (36 percent) and borrowings (51 percent) to
finance large investment expenditures (US$463 millton).  The main burden
fell on INDE, which was able to contribute only about 5 percent to its
large investment expenditures (US$447 million) and had to step up its
borrowing, so that its debt service coverage decreased to 1.0. EEG's
financial position remained strong. Internal cash generation allowed EEG
to finance as in the previous years all its working capital and investment
requirements without significant borrowing. Accounts receivable absorbed a
large component of the working capital, growing from US$24.1 million in
1982 to US$36.4 million in 1984, equivalent to 107 days of billing. Most
of this amount is owed to EEG by municipalities and Government agencies,
including about US$21.6 million owed by the capital city's water supply
company, EMPAGUA.
Financial Objectives
64.       The financial position of the sector is expected to strengthen in
1987-1993 because of two main factors. First, the shift of the system from
thermal-based to hydropower generation would reduce the operating expenses
per kWh sold from US cents 9.3 in 1982-84 to US cents 7.7 in 1986. Fuel
expenses are expected to decrease to 3 percent of operating expenses in
1986-93, compared with 53 percent in 1982-84. Depreciation would increase
from 14 percent of operating expenses to 56 percent. Second, annual
investment requirements in 1987-93, (averaging US$113 million in current
prices, equivalent to US$74 million in Hay 1986 prices) would be 49 percent



- 22 -
lower than in 1982-85 (US$145 million in May 1986 prices). Provided tariff
levels are kept at a level adequate to achieve a 5 percent rate of return,
the sector would be able to contribute about 62 percent of the financing
requiremente for investment (US$810 million) and working capital (US$92
million), in addition to a transfer of about US$93 million equivalent to
the Government budget in 1989-93. The debt service coverage would be at
satisfactory level (about 1.5 times). During negotiations, (1) INDE and
EEG agreed, subject to -he provisions indicated in para. 65, (i1 to set
tariffs at such level as to allow each utility to earn a rate of return not
lower than 5 percent, calculated on a rate base annually revalued; the
covenant of Loan 1605-GU for a rate of return of the sector (5 percent in
1986-87; 6 percent in 1988; 7 percent in 1989; and 8 percent thereafter)
would be superseded by this agreement; (ii) to present to the Bank by
September 30 of each year, starting in 198C, a schedule of tariff
adjustments for the following year to meet compliance with the 5 percent
covenanted rate of return; and (iii) to repeat the provision of Loan
Agreement 1605-GU requiring review of any capital expenditures in excess of
US$5.0 million which are not included in the investment program reviewed by
the Bank; and (2) the Government agreed to enable INDE and EEG to comply
with the above provisions. The Plan of Action (Annex IV) provides for the
revaluation of INDE's and EEG's assets.
65.       Electricity tariffs have been increased in the past in accordance
with the increasing cost of fuel, and reached in 1984 Quetzales 12.6
cents/kWh (equivalent to US cents 12.6/kWh) on the average, estimated to be
40 percent above the level of long-term marginal costs. Since then,
however, the Quetzal has significantly depreciated. The Government's
ongoing process of unification of exc,ange rates (para. 16) will require
tariff increases. Based on the assumption of an exchange rate for external
debt servicing at US$1 - Q2.5 starting in December 1987, the current
average tariff in Quetzales of cents 12.6/Kwh would have to be increased by
about 22 percent in 1987 and by 48 percent in 1988 to achieve a 5 percent
rate of return. To avoid a sharp increase of 48 percent in January 1988,
INDE and EEG would increase their average tariff to final consumers every
month during 1987, starting in January. This is expected to result in a
rate of return exceeding 5 percent in 1987. It was agreed, therefore, that
INDE's and EEG's net operating incomes in excess of what would have been
required to reach a 5 percent rate of return in 1987 would be taken into
account for the calculation of the rate of return in 1988. With these
increases, the average level of tariffs would be in line with the long-term
marginal costs. However, a Bank financed tariff study carried out in 1983
concluded that INDE's and EEG's tariff structures are out of line with the
structures of long-term marginal costs valued at the new exchange rate.
Accordingly, the Plan of Action (Annex IV) provides for a review of the
structure of electricity tariffs.
66.       Under the proposed project: (i) the Government would take all
necessary actions to ensure that by January 1, 1987, and at all times
thereafter, the accounts payable by public agencies to INDE and EEG shall
not exceed 60 days of billing; and (ii) INDE and EEG would maintain a 60
day collection period for private consumers by December 31, 1986 and
thereafter.



- 23 -
67.       During 1987-93, INDE will have by far the largest finantcing
requirements for investment and working capital:. US$785 million, compared
with US$117 aillion for EEG. During the same period, EEG will have an
internal cash generation which is expected to be sufficient to finance
about 37 percent of its investments and working capital requirements.
Therefore, with the objective of (i) sharing more equitably than in the
past the contribution to the financing of investment in the sector; and
(ii) using of EEG's yet untapped capacity to borrow domestically and
abroad, (1) EEG would: (i) pay annually starting in 1986 dividends
equivalent to the amount of its net income after taxes and provisions for
legal reserves; (ii) pay to INDS its electricity bill within 45 days; (iii)
pay 50 percent of dividends accrued up to 1985, by no later than January 1,
1987; and (iv) gradually pay in 1987 and thereafter the balance of
dividends accrued up to 1985; and (2) the Government, ENPAGUA and EEG
would execute an agreement for the settlement of EXPAGUA's arrears as a
condition of loan effectiveness.
68.       With the above measures, INDE's internal cash generation, after
transferring US$93 million to the Government budget and receiving EEG's
dividends, should allow INDE to finance 66 percent of its investment
program in 1987-93. INDE would submit to the Bank by June 30, 1987 a set
of procedures and criteria to regulate the transfer of funds from INDE to
the Government to ensure that such transfers do not impair INDE's financial
position or project execution. The existing covenant under Loan 1605-GU on
the debt service coverage ratio (1.5) would continue to apply to INDE and
would be extended to EEG.
Project Benefits and Justification
69.       The proposed project would help improve the power sector's
efficiency and would enable minimum system expansion requirements to be met
consistent with present load growth expectations. The project is justified
as part of the least-cost expansion program of the sector's generation,
transmission and distribution systems. A measure of the minimum benefits
associated with these programs is given by the incremental sales revenue.
Based on valuing the latter at the average tariff resulting from the
covenanted financial rate of return, the rate of return for the project is
estimated to be 12 percent, which is at the upper end of the range of the
opportunity cost of capital in Guatenala (10-12 percent). The project,
however, is likely to generate additional social benefits accruing from
expanded residential and public use, as well as additional economic
benefits accruing to production from a more reliable electricity supply.
Sensitivity analysis shows that the minimum rate of return would be 10.9
percent in case-investment costs are 10 percent higher than now estimated.
Risks and Environmental Considerations
70.       Tbe project is not expected to have detrimental effects on the
environment and presents no major physical risks, since construction of
standard subtransmission, distribution and comunication facilities are
involved. Delays in project execution could arise due to the following:
(i) EEG has no previous experience with Bank loans and procedures; and (ii)
INDE has no previous experience in the construction of a control center and
extensive communications systems. To minimize these risks, (i) a Bank



- 24 -
procurement specialist has discussed with EEG the Bank's guidelines for
procurement; and (ti') consultants would supervise the construction and
equipping of the control center and communication system. Implementation
of staff restructuring and reductions, and tariff increases sought under
the project might be delayed, should the present significant political
support accorded to the newly elected Government weaken. Project execution
may also be affected if the Government is unable to move as quickly as
planned in carrying out its economic adjustment efforts.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I am satLsfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank. I recommend that the Executive'
Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 5, 1986
Washington, DC



-25 - 
T-4 4 L a * *                                  Paga  1 of  6
0IAYZ                  - UI*L  !NIC0  oTA UOT
NUPEOU amps (00IGU WAmOGK) Jo-
on  (mum  r. U
* * ~~~~~~~~1"                       rm&7 wmTd                LAT. AUSA, *Al
TOM t0I.,                                      100.9       lu.9
301L2333.                         24.0        24.0        31.
Ni C113 cm                                                   I  l12lLO,         17.9 %14.3
C tULAu mu OL6  auhv*.usr          u2&.0       ao7.0       139.0              gV&o                    1119.4
* oMarxow.u-Ua CTUwOl)    39G0.0              535.0        ML3L/
M     IPUUUO   CZ Or  1AL)          33.0        31.7        40._              67.7                      47.1
PWIuia22  IN TM  2000 1001.                               12.1
u ozM         NUIATKO  CH"u)                              25.0
popuLArIa MuUxM                                            1.1
D s. M8.                          30.4        4.2         72.0               4.0                      04.7
Pu  M  M. *C1.7 ULI I            19.1        215.7       242.3              93.2                     106.9
Fo"u   Xm  nrLTMC)
0-143R                           4.1         01.0        43.0               30.1                     31.2
15A4                              11.0        S15          3.5              57.1                      01.5
G M   ANID                         2.7         2.7         2.4                4.2                      7.2
TOWN.                              2.9         3.0         3.0                2.4                      1.0
UNIAN                              3.2         3.0         4.0                3.                       3.7
*-       333*    (PM T30I3)         40.3        04.1        37.8               30.9                     23.4
33048313   m10113)              10.         13'.9       3.          *       .0           *.1
-6 3@3010C?U 2013                    3.4         3.1         2.1                2.0                      L.5
.   u. CTwxU)                      ..         21.2        19.0.
_ C 0r wamaw  UU)                  ..          7.0        10.0 41.3
-M or 100 PW0. Pl CWITA
*(1900.-71-100)                      V3.0       101.0       113.0              100.0                    109.1
mu cATk snmu or
C IZOUZ  CZ 0r ampLUMU)           n.0         91.0        97.0              113.2                    131.5
33 0  (GRAMS PUM DA)              50.0        17.0   5A4.0                  0.4                       12.4
w  micaI I 1 mID PUU3            21.0        20.0        19.0.      h       34.2                     34.5
CM  tG   1-4) ORATE SI              19.1        12.9         5.0                4.0                      4.7
1       5 3XPW. AT 311 C1*ib)       40.0        52.9        00.1               04L.                     07.2
UIFT lw. AM   CP  0UOI)            122.5        9.0         67.0             539.7                       3.3
*003310   302 TCR(VW)
TWA*1.                             11.3 If     36.0       45.0 it            05.3                     70.2
M                                 23.9  3,     1 W.0      09.0 77            70.5                    s3.0
E.                                 1.5 IU     12.0        13.0       I       I 44.2                   57.0
A     iCe0   0 OCR=  DIPOSAL
(I Or 99llAT13)
TOAL                               ..          ..         21.0 c             5063                     59.0
11R1                               ..          ..         45.0 7[           73.4                      01.9
331                                ..         11.0        20.0 k            25.5                      47.0
p0901121  mm 33152*               4000.0      3730.0      3010.0 /h         190.7                     1070.0
VW. MR   SDIG 30040U /1.  1200.0                          1620.0             I.2                       709.5
Mr. "a RSPIT   go
T0TAL                            30LO        470.0       520.0             3420                      320.3
033*3                            110.0 Il   210.0          ,.              422.0                     201.9
RR*AL                              ..          ..          ..             271.7                     0519.
AUUUSI   PM 3W052L -                 ..         19.          ..               27.5                      20.0
AugCg SoZ7 or MOf SULD
TOTAL                              5.2 If      5.0 I.
URM                                5.2z 7T    '0.9         ..
mA.                                5.3 7i      5.1         . 
AUM  u. ML PEROSI3W
TOTL                              2.0 It      2.211       ..         ' _
03311                              1.3 7-f      1..
3AL338.                                7F      2.7         .
Pm    _Am  or   D l9=vm WSaII  K.
TTAUL                             72.0 It    23.1 I
50.0       0 *7.0 J.
RnAL                               4.0o7       ..4                           .



-26-                                            AM   I
ZJJ.J..L&                               Pag 2 of 6
uMA tMM %p (MM AV M^4
[uo~k          O N                            (N             f Li-
Loma  IWA  rMa            ZAT. A113320 A CAR            335
MUMI     TOS                       45.0        57.s        73.0              106.7                     101.9
3*13                    50.0        62.0        75.0              103.5                     106.2
131311                 13.0         51.0        67.0              104.6                      97.5
USCO I!s 1O*L                       7.0         3.0        14.0               4.2                       57.5
HUIL                     8.0         9.0        16.0               43.7                      ".
mum                       .0.                   15.0               44.                       10.0
VOCU1Z03*L (C or U3e15!)             1RA         15.0        22.2               13.3                      21.0
IUIZL-!3A33 RAM2
5220*1                             530.0       26.0        36.0               25.J                      25.1
INCOI                 O.0                      14.         14.0               16.7                      15.1
lAJUU           0 CAN3fl3053*i  POIP  6.          6.0        13.2d              *4.0                      54.2
*ZOU Z UROW/2000M  VW                53.0        41.1        42J               322.3                     170.7
Iw    _. pa                           8.1        15.5        23.0              112.4                     149.3
D33*3   CI*ZL?mII
1_ IUIUIAI  lILOu              -   21.5         24.7        23.2               81.1                      97.0
c031 A AL                             2.3  _      0.1 .L  o                      34a                       2.7
101AL UI    105 (UU)l              1237.0      161.0       2251.0
You= (CIn l                        12.4        12.1        14.4               23.4                      35.3
2AGUCU  S C1UD0                 6 ".4       61.D        55.1 et            31.4                      40.6
lmus5!IuInm                        14.         17.3        20.  ;             24.3                      2343
1*MUZCPASOU 3413 Chi!
Tm                                 31.2        30.         30.1               33.                       43.1
W&C                                53.9        53.2        50.9               51.3                      55.1
131*1                               7.5         7J          3.8               13.5                      31.4
%CnW       D    _13 0  3410  1.4                  1.          1.5                1-                        0.,
n -r T 
:1UR  SZ OF NDIAX                 .            35-0 * -*
m! 20 OF  I       _              .-13       60.0D.*
zzusszvuuuo.1                      ..          55          * ..                ..
Lmtl 203 01U         IDS            ..         60O71 . ..
3 1  am or mUISOwu                  ..o
1.0065 4030 or    011               ..         13.0~
La          ( -  nS i c u   c
033*3  ..   ..        Z1OA-20.           235.3
113A1-                              .. ..                        l3OA 7j     165J3
LUlL (03S  3 CAPT
1133*8                              ..          ..        231.0,7            315..
1131                               ..          ..        141.0 7k           3559.7
9030! 301  LonU CZ)
DU                                  ..          ..         21.0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.
..MM AVAULAAL
302 AP1LZCAM3
amon lb. lndIcateve depend. on avella"Slty of data, ad As met uaihn.
.lb   Ilaa= atheist.. noted. "Data forIt     rotor to. Cewayewa batue  1955 and 1961; "Data fte 1970 be..
1949 and 1571; ame dat for "last lsee.. ganim.  hamm  1561 and 153.
./.  1960. j/, 1973; &  177; /f 1964; Lu leueoaeea    of duenl.Un    with piped uetsm    l  1579; /1l 1562;
L. 157; lb Pa111. ommy .1 atbam "Ve 567.              
/l GNP Per capita for 1984. accordinzg to recent Information ls $1, 180.
1a  Population Ini aid-year for 1984 ac-ording to rec-ent                                           JM 138
inomto  is 7.7 miLlion.



-27                                         ANNEXI
Page 3 of 6
DUINII 0SOCINDDAM
_umusabla mu of.t Iik  of umddudlmd  dldus _d  _u  it  by dillivintu    in adag da TML u ild am. _m'uhJM meda
mm  I     vw.      1 id.fapndo~ ami. ath asiyV ofd uAiutb    masl. ..mdIb    b.aaw vowmumwanh.Mm.hmf on
we"  ftiaampmp   i) lbs am uamr  pu1mp bc l0b mipinl uVow  ..m'id(21 mu,  Nw b whh uim MM& h1      sdiap 1m nmi..    of shu mam
.adwednudmlbid.)l. I. lb ,fIn -mp&udisavers u.    -populaIm udimid uliuul    m i u dda,sa  k    mudy ohm mjmi
mudammmbhe usnMimd Iumigasmmm.ufmlaimwuo samTba         a Thu s vu.u ualy mul ampaoodagavalu f.. nidlcmuratha dmog
dinummay ud Imfim p_omp.
{ (tbouad sq.km.)                                             ouhirhRr(ph u,                        of live births in the year
rwnd-Tota surface are comprsig land are and inland waters;    pw dound of mid-rw population; 1960.1970. and 1933 data.
19613 1970 and 1963 data.                                     Cash ami Aar (pm siammad)-Number of deathus inth yea
AVAgmw - Esimate of agricultura are  uued temporarily or      pe thouSand o1mid-year populadIoo 1960 1976. and 1933 datiL
permmnemy for crops. piatres market and litche gardens or to  Gres AweAhpva Aai-Averap number of daughters a woman
Hie fidlow, 1966.1970 and 1982 data.                          wil barin banhr onorma reproductiv  perid if sh  xprene
preueat age-specific erlit =atm amualY Eve-Year aveages ending
GNP PER CAlPffA (USS)-4GNP per capita estmates at curmont     in 1966.1970, and 1933.
NImbI pumca. calcuated bysm  oneri  nwio  -  WwMM d-wrw,ium   tah-nu                                               un
Bind Ads, (1931 &33 basisL~ 1963 data.ba oaoumptor ofb zth-control devices und    pcsof national
E4ERGY CON!SUMPTION PER CAIAAna  paet                         f=*I3 plannig prorm.
consumptio  of counneziai primar energ  (coal adlgt.            FjWl P1isil-Usm'  (pwrew ofa.uwdsd .mmu-Tbe percen-
peroleum, natura gas and hydro.. nuclea and geothermal dc-m    tap of marrie womnen of child-earing age who are practicing or
uocity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whos husibands. are practicig any form of cotraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    ofchild-bearing age are puenrly women aged 15-49. although for
-   contr. conacet   ubgep i measured for_ oLer age
POPULAlTON AND VflAL STATISFICs                                           _        t    n
TerTdPapdiWan MMYew (thism r)-As  of July 1; 1966 1970.       FOOD AND NU1TRIION
and 193 dasta.
UFbi.Mg fmd.t      (pewar of wist)-Ratio of ubn t  u          ALdezefle.dJ%  uAahrCqpka (196-72.- 100)-4ndex of p1r
poplatio: difar t definitios ofurba areas; may abea compw.    cpista anmul producto  o all  rood cmmodiuie  Productio
aifc  of data among    tries; 191 0. 1970. and 19w3idata.     excludes tamal Aed and smd for aricuture. Food ommoditi
a9lude pimay commoditi   (eg. su ne insted of supar)
AV.tauA  c-ieu.-                                               which are e ible and contain nutrits (e.g. coffee and tea ar
opialrm  n yw 20y-The projection of populto  ror 2000.        excluded  they comprie cee   root cop  pulsme      seeds.
made for each eonomy se     ly. Sting with informaton on      vegabe   , fruits nuts. sugarcanue and supr beets lvetock, and
otal poplatio by age and sx fertility ruin moraity rate and   hvestok prdu    Aggregate production oreach country as based
internaonal migation in the base year 1980, theseprmtr        on naional average produce price weights; 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected a five-year intervals on the bassb of genealized  1982 dat.i
assupi onuntil the population became stationar.            ArCp.c.t  51supOf C,gu,*  (PWrarfrqeurj-opt
Saarmwypapultrw-I oue i which age- and sex-specilic mor-      ed f1 0. caloriequvaletofnet food suppi avalbk in country
tality raie have not changed ovr a log period while agepei    per capta per day Available sppie compre domesc produc-
fertility rates have mulumanousdy remained at relacement level  on  imPOts   Ceports. andcnes in stock Net supplies
(net reproductio rat- 1). In suich a population the birth rawe is  ecludei animal feed. seeds for use in agrciculua  quantities used in
consmat and equal to the death raze the age stuctur is also   food procemssig and losse in distribulson. Requirements wese
constant and the growth rate is zeo. The stationar populatin  estimated by FAO based onm physiological needs for normal activity
size was estmated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and healt cnnsidering environtmental temperature body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of feurtiiy  age and sex distrbution ofrpopulatin. and allowing 10 percet for
rate to replacement leve                                      wase at houoseold le: 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
Pplut Mmurw -20           the tendency for population grwth to P00  Capiade Spply of Porv lgvu po oolaJ-4rotein content of
contiue beyond the time that replacemient-level fartilt las been  per capita one supply of food per day. Net suppy of food is defined
achireec that is. even after the na reproduction rat ha racd  as aboe Requirements for all couies estabised by USDA
unity. The momentum. ofra population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimumn allowance of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultiate stationary populatio  to the populion in  day and 20 grams ofanimal  d pule protein of whh  10 gams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  sbjpuld he animal protini. Thes standards.are lower than those of
ment lie kom year i  onward, 1935 data.                       75 grams of totea protein and 23 gms of animal protein as an
irohdm Dwaky                                             averag for the world, prposd by FAO in the Third World Food
Per s1nL  Mid-year population per sa  kilomete (100 b         Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tare) of total area; 1960.1970. and 1933 data.                Aw Capita Awei SuW&l rum Ardwafd eA i-Proten supply
Per sqkm. arsaahwa Lad-Computed as above for agrculral        offood deived f rome. anials and pulses in grams per day. 1io6n5
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1932 data.                         1970 and 1977 dat.il
hpsaltaiaa Age LSariare (panwI-Citildren (0-14 year). work-   CV(6ga 14d) Da-  Rotep 4rlrsmisad)-Numnber of deaths of
kgage (15r6 years;). and retired (65 yeant and over) as percrnag  clde  agd 1-4 yea  per thouand chir  in the suanm age
of mdid-year popuation: 1960. 1970, and 1933 da               grotp i a gven yew. For most deveoping coutum  data derved
cpidi   Gwoth Roe (pocewr-aaal-Annual growth rattes of        from life tbls 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year popWation for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    eatH
hpatima, Grwth Re                            gowth rat        Lo  Ezpecmmp   A- (ywz-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1920-60. 1960-70. and 1970-33 data.   int would i if prvailing patten of mortality for al people



i- 28 7-                                 AM        
Pa    of 6
ate time of of las birth wr to say t   -  thoghou  lfe',      AvilLathlr Redo - purp. ad wc,lrn-Toatal sdenu   t.
19   1970 ad 193 daa.                                        role  In primary and amodwy les divided by nubm   of
Low   MwtUW l    (per r*)-Numiber of ifan  who die            tahs in bs corresponding leeds.
beom nig -  year of agp per thosnd liv brdh In a Sia
year.196, 1970  d 19M daL                                     coNsmnom
A_u to SOOw (pu'ea .of                J-te    w6en, ad        Phg.    Cm (r If_ dr cr com-
edi-Number of pop* (lotaL. urblan and nrual) wt roble         prim motor can madig lm  thn nght persons;  ludes mbul-
ma   t safe wateW supply (includes trated srfa  wat  -or      ano  _eares ad miita  vehicle
mated hut  -"            ~  such r   tadt frm  protected    Blee _udlwa (prt r      Spe  I PAa)-All types of rcaivr
borehoka spin  ad santr walk)aa parage ol their rp           for radio boadcua  to pnad public per thud of'population;
dive populatons. In s urban am a public foutsin or smapost   cdude u-          ed. iv  in countries and in yas when
load ngot -o  ne 20D mm frm a bour may be coeidmd            registration of rdio m  was in effec daa for rec   yan my
a bikn within .soabl  amm of tht hom   In nuYra               not be euopq.s  since most comunties abosHdoiusing.
r.oablea amawould imply that the bouewife or membersa of the
o_uhold do not hba  to spnd a dsprapwdooa  pat of tw day      TV EwU (per - u       pgn m).-TV scde for bradot
* feauig t  fmiW  w    nes                                   to pua' public pe thouad populaio: eacldeds umoesed TV
A ,.".g.   E       1h_           (                     reodrera in countries and   year --  when registdyatondofT'srww
_d N     u  lNwnber of people (totaL urban and   al) seved by
emim dupood n percentages of ther rcive poputon                 P        Ck   m   (Pr       _                 the aver-
Excu   dipoqa my Indude the colecton and di    l With or     an of daiy   wal n                   wdefined u a
without treatm     of human eet  nd waste-water by waer      pkodc  publication devoted pimaly to recoidig geal nes
born systems or the u  of pit privies and similar illa       It is    dered to be da    ifft apper at eat four tm  a week.
pdrpw P              puhtiot  divided by number of pman      Crasa AX_ A           tandlnC. Pr Cepkm p. Yea-Bad on the
ding physicians q    ffidom a medical school at univ ty level.    number of ticd   sold during the yr. idudg admiions to
Apals'r Nwwg h           -Fbpulatioo dividd by number of     d n chmem  and mobile units.
practng male and female graduate nurss assit  nurscL
practcal nurses ad nursing aumians.                            LOR  FORCE
Pr 8             d   -M4  wm, ad awo I                 _A-l' JF (tcanomicllysaavepmn in
(totaL urban and rural) divided by their respi  numbr of     cuding anued forcs and unmployd but ecluding houwive.
hopial bedsavadia npublic andprivate, gnealands- speiacd   sakisuIs  ecm. covering population of al saes. Definitios in
hosptal and reabiat   conter  Hosptal mre esalshet           var ousuiosnare nt compasrbk 1960.1970 and 193 dat
penntly stffed by a kot on physica  Establishments pray      F * (mar)--F le labor form a percentse of total lbor
iW    principally custodial cam am  ot included. Rual hospuas  form.
ho  d,indlue alth and meddc cnte not pemanniy staffe         Aigrmbw (pwr-lJbor frem in farming forey, hunting
by a physin (but by a medical euia  nwe midwi, ec)            ad fishing   pemt    of total lwr form  1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer inpt  accommodati  and providc a imied range     data.
of medicel facilites                                         IAw   (Poemr)--Labor form in minin, consuction. manu-
Ads   p  Respird H_i-Total number of admissions to or        fauringnd deecticity, wtr and ps as percantageof totl bor
dischrs fom hoitals divided by the number of bsL             force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 daa
A d*adwu lAW 4.r&-awd.apk.adf.ad.-hrticipaon
HOUSING                                                      or ctvity rats ar compred a totl, mle, and female labor form
,bowqa 9Si  of Hielmu (per    P  bo _ l-ral wba,  sr pectages of  taL   le and feml popaion of all ps
admsf'-A household consis ofa group ofidividuas who share    rIpectve. 1960.  70 and 1963 dauL Thes are bosd on lLOs
ving quars and thir  ain meals A boarder or lodgr may or     partdiptionr         r cn agoe  sucture ofth popuion. and
may not be inclu   in the houseold for stais    purpos,      long Om  trend. A few esimae are from nationa som
4uer.ge Nader of Pats.., Pr. R.m-r.nul, mba, ad usl-A    &Emm  Depadee Ra-Ratio of population under 15. and
Averge number of perons per room in al urban, and  rul       65 and ovr, to the working age population (thos aged 15-64).
occupied conventonal dvc;!=. respecively. Dweiinp exclude
non-pemaet stctures and unoccupied pat                       INCOME DESTRiRUTION
Ple'q.of DwEq  w6  Ekard-beel. mrs, mad wel-                 Pe,wq  of Te  Dspmhl Awm (bet i cask ad hind)-
Conventional dwellinp with eletricity in ving quarte as perrm-  Accruig to percentile goups of houshlds mnked by total bouw-
tage of totaL urbn, and rural dweilnp respecvely.            hold income
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TnARGE GROUPS
iAusd Em-_w. A_e,                                            The folowing esimates are very approxiae mesur of poverty
ary .SdhoO - tosal. *k aid fwwk--Gross totaL ,male nd        leve  and shoudld be intrprd with conderable caution.
fremale aiolmgnt ofra age at the pnmay level as prcmugtes of  fsd4hsAdste fum  eeur L*vd (U.pr apitej-uarbi
pctiv primy shool-ge popuation  Wbile many countries          _d cr-Absolute: poverty income level s that incme leved
consider primy school age to be 6-11 yas  othen do not. The  below which a minim   nuritionally adequte diet plus essential
diffWe     in country practioz in the ages and duation of shool  non-food reqiments is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios gven. For some countrs with univra  Esgfrted Reladve huersy Aconer Lu ((USS per <apr)_-m.he
educAto  go  enroflment may exceed [00 percent sinm            d reral-ural rlative poverty income lvd is onehird of
pupils are below or above the couniwys sandard pmary-school  avmere per capta poa inCome of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                         demved from the rural kl   with adjusment for highcr cot of
Secwy iseldod - oal. ale ad fvnuie-omputed as above          living   urban area.
secondary education   u e at ls four years of apprved pn     E      jed  ho6a_ 51w AJ_wairbs.,,p Iacm  Lewd (Pr-
may intrucon; provides geeal vocational, or teacber tsiuing   c  )__-mand       l  Percent of population (urban and ural
instructis for pupil mlly of 12 to 17 yas orag  corrapond-    Aho are absoh   poos.
cm cous are gnerly eccluded.
Vorwimr ENord  fpercet of sxandoyiJ-Vocatona instiw                                Analysis and Da  Division
oe include thawal indusriaL or other program which opeme             Economic Analy  and Projetions Departmnt
independenty or as departmns of seconday in   n                                      June 1985



-29                                                     AM-
Pap 5 of 6
PuImatamm   7.7 nil. 14941                                                        iE114A  - E CIIUtIC    111111111
U  Phr CAplti  0a110 (I34-
Audit          Sb re of  1  at Narkt Prlac  111                                           barqe Amal lcrmm  IlU
ailcater                              9lil. no at                (at currt Frical                                                           at ontant pricni
CWurrt PricNl -
116          190      195      IM       193     I92       Im      1914    (l5             1970-15   91-0  19O-IS
301101k" leCPJIITI7
ru hlattic   ct                               11027        100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   10.b   100.0   100.0                    5.9      5.7    -1.4
Aryiclt. 1                                    ..         27.3    23.0    24.3    25.0    25.1    25.1    25.7   2IL                       0.4      3.2    -0.7
lAntry 11                                     ..        31.7    18.5    22.0    21.7    21.3    20.0    19.7           1.9                I.I      9.1    -3.L
irvcn    1                                    ..         54.0    53.5    S3.2    53.3    53.6    34.3    54.0    54.5                     5.3      5.7    -0.3
Ctmmmtn                                      30010.7         .4    05.7    17.0    19.7    n.5    n5.9    95.0    95.3                      4.9      5.7    -0.7
brm  In tmste                                1303.i        12.3    10.1      15.9      7.0     14.0    10.9    11.4    31.0                 7.1      5.9   -12.1
lwts of gm"  ad Ws                          239           17.1    a3.5    24.1    23.5    11.7    14.3    15.3    21.7                     4.5      3.9   -11.0
lip"rts d4 Bk NA  In                         2100.7        11.0    21.7    21.9    IL0         14.0    13.0      I3      19.3               3.3      5.3    -7.2
6rk    Ntesal  lavwp                          731.0         14.4    14.4    13.       10.4      9.0      3.0     7.4      3.1               0.9      3.1    -9.3
PRIES                                                      1         951     1952    Im        1914    19
UIP hEltar 21                                            2S3.    274.0   239.3   307.7   317.7   s70.
BMW  rate                                                    1.0     1.0      I.0      LO.      1.0      1.0 3
Ezwt Pice 11d  21                                        2i4.5   253.5   250.5   257.    27LI   40.5
Inort Price lods 21                                       442.4   470.    410.0   493.1   5110.7   971.2
r se of Trai  Iwo 21                                       59.3    54.2    51.5    51.7    53.9    47.3
Cmutim  of Nercasdima Trade (2                                        burAqe P uaI  crme (1W
(at curert pnrenl                                                (at cintt picni
1970     m5      1910    1951      192      11       1914    915            Im-75  t795-0   M0-85
E11315                                                     10.0   100.0   100.0   I0.o   10.0   300.0   100.0   100.0                      7.4      0.?    -2.1
Primy Pdcts                                              70.0    74.1      0.0    70.3    7C.7    17.2    73.5    74.4                    3.3      5.3    -0.7
fctad   ui                          .                    24.0    25.9    32.0    29.7    29.3:    32L         20.5    25.                 5.2    10.3    -3.0
IWnS                                                      100.0    9.9   300.0   100.0   I00.   100.0   100.0   100.0                      3.4      4.4    -L5
Fod                                                       L.4      5.0      7.4      6.0      0.7      7.0     o.7      7.1              -7.2     1.2    -Ls
. tral..                                                  LO      14.0    21.5    22.        21.3    22.      2.7    2L5                 -4.1      5.5    -1.3
lackumary                                           20.0     2L4    2L3        23.1    23.1    15.4       15.t    10.0               1.;       .2   -IL7
OtOrs                                                    05.L     57.5    47.3    47.S    43.4    54.9    53.7          2.9                .S      2.1    -3.0
is a   o f GlP
P!!U: FI!
Ilo    It51     It2    3933    1914    1i
IC etral gavsrea- t-
Orrrnt R     _as                                            9.5      3.       3.4      7.3      7.2     7.7
forret E ^ltorm                                             3.3      L35      Li       71.     3.1      7.0
surp1   1 or Odficit 1-1                                    3.2      0.2      0.3    -01.1    -O.       0.1
Capital Eseittm aNd Nlit Laniag                             5.9      7.0      5.0    L3.      L27       2.2
BOrall Odicit 1-I                                          -4.7    -7.4      4.7    -3.7    -3.L    -Li
Forla FAaauma                                               1.2      1.2      0.t      L.0      0.2     0.3
1970-75  1975-tU  190-ES
W   Crmut Rate                                              Li       Lo      -LO V0
W  Per Capita 6roet  late                                   3.2       .1    -4.7 51
Elacticatv C.satau 6ret lRat1D)
tOR                                                         Lb       3.1   -11.
6rbs   prmal Savamp Rate                                   14.1      7.7
Iaurt Elnatc                                                0.      0.3      3.0



-30-                                                     AIM=XI
PItab t 7.7 11M1. 3966                                     1UNJ -mom  0    "Mono,  lU_  CWZTU  a  Mt
UP Pu CItm   IIIJ   119311              -
l331 k   Cur. Prnta
1rE  of       i ui 09W                                    1721.5  146103    3295.7  117.7    3LS 33    25.3
uriemua FO                                             1519.   1291.3  1137.4  1693.1   113L22   I1LI
On PFat  Iwirca                                        23t.7   110.2    13.3       0.S    12I    1353
.wts d   o o mg IIR                                       1951.9  351.1   109.0   33117.6   1651.7  332IL4
mro wai m                                             IsIL.   1673.6  1317.7 11a3.0  Ia.s  .121LI
Mm  Factw tuncus                                        3537   3D-.0   261.3   IQ.O    17LM2    1L6LT
rm  G*pb ofs goo        ad3                               -Z.4  -5.   -m.3  -1343   -195.4   -61.1
No fKt.r Ice_                                             -5.  -I 2.L  -323.2  -113.4   -12.7  -173.
lot trmfws                                                 10.3       .9      2.1    30.7      2L7      36.
rast RFt   Il                                             -17L.4   -lI    -39.7   -2S.6  -107.4   -2ZI.O
krit FPm.p lavest M3                                       11.7    1a9       62.      46.      42.3    06L.
12 La   IeTl                       J                       L.    216.9   Z94.0       5.      143.        .o
ksa...s                                                  137.6   23.4   337.1   33L7    34.5    t61.3
bwtliaba                                                -3L2    -2L2    -4L3    -04.9  -313.  -155.3
fibe Capta                                               -315.5  -143.7  -331.2   -44.3    -5.          41.0
amap to burma I- * IIflmuui Il                             316.6   349.1   31.0L   -31.0    1116.    134.0
Rc  of N ltwuhud    wohg                                   3_.L6    49.2  -20.   -3Lt    -m3   -53
;M  Mm d        w em % of d  3wt                             L  J 3  1.3       1      L27      3o       3.6
sl. cuir.           fli
0631 IN corr. Prim)
Wmrn IDu uts                                               131.0    MU      34.2  S354    24.8   259.0
Oficia  ba                                                 ..      ..       ..       .         .       .
nca.mal Les                                                3.l     1.4     14       2.6      14.4    20.7
NC                                                     L7      7.4    14.2      2.6      14.4    2t.4
PEC                                                   17.4     ..       ..
136~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
_ Norvencussawal Ism a14.s    73.1   32.0   211. 4    246.4   22.3
Officidal aw     crtb                                   2.4.    1262           6 109.1     0.L    4U.l
1116                                                   39.0    34.0    22.e    26.4         7.9    41.6
Othr mItiuarai                                         33.1    0L4       74.4    34.9    74.3    I31
pItyata                                                 I      54.0    43.0   171L4    95.6    42.
fatuI Di
km  btmtiq ad shwi                                      541.9    3.0   t4L.   133L6   IWO.?  2M4.1
hai .  ht                                                 01.4   53.L   414.3   404.1    SI1.7        3.6
km  Swetn                                                  44.       0.3   302.    1.    394.0    34.5
Tett S ca *aymu                                           3L3      25      43       70.0    IW.3   147.1
tXmnt                                                  29.5     S7.7       .7    75.1    33.3   n60.
pat_b  n I of  bwta                                        2.3     4.1      7.9    tL4      15       20.4
WISP  ltut  adi, - IN Leave IV                              7.9      L5       0         U.4     9.1
Official                                                   7.7     0.3      3.2      7.3      7.3      1.4
fpvsi                                                     31.9    17.0      9.3     1.7      U.L 
I a  livitny ofi  Lam i        mTu                          34.3    [L0    133.       13.2    14.1
phiasl                                                    31.     21.1    2St    2tl.1       1.S    37.4
Mnat,                                                      L7      L6         4      3.4      3.6
.. ua1.1.
V1  At urtut prcm  awne i W Pv at crmtat 195 pima.
Vi  TW  Wllet uritt rat 0a  2 LB oar LS brus 1IMU
tu3  arag  mucku  rat fw nom rnw  ho    L    r 1.7 w         LL  intar.
41  cIrcs IIIF. arrn  a       d me effacial ruarva.
SI 1It4



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEHENT OF BANK LOANS 1/ (Net of cancellations)
as of March 31, 1986
Loan or
Credit    Year   Borrower        Purpose                     Bank Undisbursed
No.                                                         (USS millions)
Twelve loans fully disbursed.                                258.0
1846    1980   Government      Highways                    17.0         3.2
2328    198i   Government      Basic Education             18.5        14.6
2383    1984   Government      Industrial Credit           20.0        17.9
2385    1984   WUATEL          Telecommunications          30.0        29.0
1605-1  1985   INDE            Power                       44.6         8.5
TOTAL                                            388.1
of which has been repaid                        87.5
Total now outstanding                            221.6
Amount sold                  5.8
of which has been repaid 5.8
Total now held by Bank                           221.6
Total undisbursed                                              73.2
1/ Including exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA (continued)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of March 31, 1986
Type of
Year    Obligator                         Business      Loan  Equity  Total
(USS millions)
1959    Industria Harinera                Flour Mill    0.2      -      0.2
Guatemalteca, S.A.
1974    Exploraciones y Explotaciones   Mining and   15.0        -      15.0
Mineras Izabal, S.A.             Processing
of Nickel
1977    Cementos Progreso, S.A.           Cement        3.0      -       3.0
Total gross commitments                   18.2     -      18.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    18.2     -      18.2
Total now held by IFC                      0.0     -       0.0.
Total undisbursed                          -       -



-33-                      Annex III
Page I of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification       : 02/81
(b)  Project Preparation :  10/81
(c) Appraisal Mission   :  10/82
(d)  Reappraisal Mission : 06/85
(e) Review with
new Government    : 02/86
(f)  Negotiations         : 05/86
(g)  Planned Date for
Loan Effectiveness:  12/86
Section II: Special CondLtions
- Consultant services would be provided for: (i) completion of
feasibility studies of future projects and updating of Master
Plan (para. 36); (ii) preparation and implementation of staff
training  programs for INDE (para. 55) and EEG (para. 57);
(iii) supervision of construction of a National Control Center
and associated commamications system (para. 50); and (iv)
assistance to INDE on important day-to-day management problems,
personnel administration, finances, planning, internal control
and management information systems (para. 55);
- Implementation of a plan of action for institutional
development (para. 46 and Annex IV);
- INDE and EEG would take satisfactory measures for-the
coordination in planning, operation, and investment financing of
their respective systems. These measures will include that INDE
will exercise its right to designate its own President and Board
of Directors for election to the same positions in EEG (para.
42);
- tariffs would be set at a level adequate to result in a rate of
return not lower than 5 percent; debt service coverage would be
at a satisfactory level (1.5 times); and capital expenditures in
excess of US$5.0 million would be reviewed by the Bank
(para. 64 an 65);
- payments in arrears to the sector would be reduced to 60
days of billing (para. 66);



-34 -                      Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Section II (continued)
- REG would pay all Its net profits in dividends to INDE and
other shareholders (para. 67); the Government and INDE would
establish satisfactory procedures and criteria for the
transfer of funds from INDE to the Government (para. 68).
- INDE would prepare -and carry out a program for increasing
the ratio of consumers per employee to not less than 40 by
December 31, 1987 and not less than 75 by December 31, 1991
(para. 54).
Section III: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
- Signing of a trust fund agreement (para. 49).
- Execution of an agreement for the settlement of the arrears of
EKPAGUA (para. 67).



Km Pm  FRED
Km (I AoI iR fl i1      fic L T9r14
Iffltitatioi/                                      Decription of        Upitiq      IiliatatM-
Ame              Ite mm                                            St O *     izmi   OB1.tIim
emis          o FiLnoial aod perwinal    (a) PLpmtiol lv DM of can-  lot             /1         1
atatistis                solidated fiumi statistices   uquird
for the motor, imliniaing fim-
oial statmntb ad basco
pecml statistics.
Iaitories    o Ikifoiu oodification      Intwdw3tion of a umifoau oode   Not        6/1        6/ 8
mnber for spin part,  terial requixed
and eq4pmnt uswed bW II an
EE, to inteSimrW part and
redwe the stoci  lel
Plaminln        atem expamion aid        (a) btabliahmint of coordinatiu,    -      * -        12/86
finmial projetions.      oammittee  to plan 1DM('
upply to 1f, prepre dmid
projeotions and progm omtnr-
tics of tnauicn lines and
substatiaw.
(b) Preparation of oomlidated    -        6/86       12/87
fimneial projectiwm in a oo-
ordinated umur wiUi saDtem                                                      o 
expauim stuaies.



atee (Ibntear)
Institution/                                            Dbecription of           UIxtiBw   Ieindtatlcon
Area              Item                               Thaiw                Studies   Reginbig  ompletion
Tariffs        o Struture                    (a) UpdatizW of the argiral.    12/86           6/86        6/87
oost atudLies t INV 's planning
Deartmet.
(b) Standardlzation and            -           6/86       12/86
simplification of the
existing tariff schedules
baaed on criteria satisfaotory
to the Bauk.
Aconting      o Revaluation.and             (a) Raluation of assets                        alrea4y     12/86
reawseeasent of            in MIMDE and EE0 respeotive                    started
fixed assets               acoounting aystem  together
with audited accounta in
aocordance with criteria to
be egreed with the Bmc.                                                                          ta
(b) Depimtion of fixed                             _      12/86
assets by excluling plants
and/or studies to be written-
off or trnsferred to operuating
plants or to wozc in prgmress.
Peruonnel      o lhman Resourcs              Implemntation of the mwsiures      12/86        3/87       1287
1negaient                 ihich have been recunded by
studies mde by comultant PCA
in: grading  sytem, ooaipenmation,
reaciting, fils, stetatic, 
evaluation and benefita.
o Civil S9rvice Regulations  Execution of the apprmpriate        -            -          6/87
legel instnuments to exclude
INDI?S staff from civil
servioe reejlaticom..



Dates (NintWeTar)
Iatitutio1/                                           Dabriptionu of          UpdattB _ _
Area              Itu                               Task                Sbaliee    1eining coqpiatio
Acomn oting       Aow ing aputn             (a) Completirg the incorpomtion   -            6/86       12/87
of data procesing into the
acoounting Wytuu;
(b) Reoonotilunt of aoomnt a9    -            3/86       6/87
of DeIcuber 85.
Ba*t           o Bidiet IVnquet             (a) Icorpormtion of thae bAlgt    -           9/86       12/87
wystem in the data prooeesing
piocdure.
(b) Preparation of month3ly       -           6/86       6/88
finanl zeports which are
oonsistent with both the
acooumting pyste and the bulgat
Intenral         o Internal audlting          &ibission to the Bak of a
Azliting          funotions                  progm  to:
(a) Tmprow the aupeMrsion of      -           12/86      12/87
all accounting systeim; and
(b) Include the intenial.control   -          12/87      12/8
qystem and operational aystua
in its fUnctiG.
InTsui pe      o Covetge and maregagnt    Ingunnoe of INDE's assets            -         alrea4y      3/17
against all rinks, based on                 started
revalued assets.
Inuuranoe      o Covermge and ianagmunt    Inmursnc of IEls assets             -          6/86        12/86
agaimt all risks, based on
revalaer a2ets.
March 21, 1986



102 n"' 9 I                                                                                                           '21
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
0c AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
GUATEMALA                                                                               la |ty
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT                              5a7
EEG's 69kV Subtransmission                               1crnUr;r          1
Expansion  Program,                         r-            atbx;*.g.r  '                    '                               -
1987-1993                                                                     Y. -A7U a t   ~~]jOejw De~^  t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "                                                     ''~    ST&Trx'9da
t a~~~~~~~~~~~/                     NMBf   ICJ1
V        / J~~~~~urun Xtarinal |  
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~da                                 dial $ y                r     
L.Cla  Sell LUil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                        ST .
woo.                                                                                      CA       - -OlZT h   F;)   \   Mr  T
Ceiba A     II&                                                            I                                kV LIN
ta oenS                           rJ                                            /    s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UMEPI OF CifCUITS
Atatiatl                              |Obtr                                                                                 V ANA$ E^
t - ..  Sip.ete,                                                                           N. reliabl scale aslbll '
Pa. SAM , F I l -..- 
a.mp~~e~~ flw 4a l,btm biww   4
~~~~~in ~~~~~~~~~P A C I F J C                          0 CI A tl!



