Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16024
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
GUATEMALA
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2724-GU)
September 20, 1996
Sector Leadership Group
Central America Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Quetzal (Q)
US$ 1.00 = Q 2.50 (June 5, 1986)
US$ 1.00 = Q 6.04 (September 18, 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EEGSA               Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A.
EMPAGUA             Empresa de Agua Potable de Guatemala
INDE                Instituto Nacional de Electrificaci6n



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE (PCN)
GUATEMALA
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2724-GU)
This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) for the Guatemala Power Distribution
Project (Loan 2724-GU). It was prepared by Luis Cosenza, Principal Power Engineer,
LASLG; and reviewed by Martin Staab, Infrastructure Sector Leader; Kreszentia Duer,
Lead Operations Specialist; Ian Bannon, Lead Economist; and Donna Dowsett-Coirolo,
Director, LADCN.
This PCN has been prepared in lieu of an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) because no disbursements took place (except for those to pay the commitment fee)
and the Loan, at the Borrower's request was canceled effective December 1, 1993. It is
based on internal Bank documents, supervision reports and interviews with Bank staff
associated with the Project.
A. Backyround
1.    The project was a continuation of the Bank's support for the development of the
power sector in Guatemala, which began in 1967. After the first two loans, a review of
the power sector was carried out in 1975 which concluded that the Bank could have
contributed more to the solution of the sector's two most important problems: its poor
financial situation and the lack of development of the country's hydroelectric resources.
Therefore, Bank assistance was designed to address these issues through the next two
operations, the Aguacapa Hydropower Project (Loan 1426-GU) and the Chixoy
Hydropower Project (Loan 1605-GU). While construction of Chixoy was underway, a
new project was identified in February of 1981. Its main objectives were to improve
sector efficiency and reliability, prepare a new generation expansion program (to identify
the project to be built after Chixoy), and to expand the subtransmission and distribution
networks in order to sell the energy and power to be provided by Chixoy.
2.    The project was appraised in October 1982 and post-appraised in May and June
1983. Processing of the operation was suspended pending the introduction of economic
stabilization measures, and the appraisal was updated in June 1985. After sectoral
priorities were confirmed in February 1986 by the newly elected authorities, negotiations
were held in Washington in May 1986. The US$81 million loan was approved by the
Bank on June 23, 1986, and it included US$35 million which were to be onlent by INDE
(the Borrower) to EEGSA on the same terms and conditions of the loan. The difference
was to be used by INDE in the implementation of its part of the project. The project was
signed on June 7, 1988 and declared effective on September 28, 1989. Upon EEGSA's,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I off icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed vi.hout World Banlk authorization.  l



2
the Borrower's and the Guarantor's request, the portion of the loan that was to be relent
to EEGSA was canceled effective November 16, 1990, while the portion assigned to
INDE was canceled effective December 1, 1993. The primary reason for canceling
EEGSA's portion was EEGSA's claim that, in view of the impossibility to disburse funds
from the loan, they had financed with their own resources all the works that had initially
been included in the project. The cancellation of the portion assigned to INDE resulted
from the Government's desire to renegotiate the grace period (which by then had expired)
and the amortization schedule of the loan. When it became clear that this was not
possible, the Government requested the cancellation of the loan. Approximately US$1.3
million were disbursed, solely to pay the commitment fee and the interest caused by
financing payment of the commitment fee with loan funds.
B. Project Objectives and Description
3.    Project Objectives. The project objectives were: (a) to expand and improve the
subtransmission and distribution systems in the areas served by EEGSA; (b) improve the
operating reliability of INDE's system and the efficiency of INDE's operations; and (c)
complete the studies to ensure the next generation expansion plan took into account all
available options. The project also sought to improve sector efficiency through: (a) the
implementation of personnel, tariff and accounting measures in INDE; (b) reductions in
INDE's workforce; (c) improved coordination between INDE and EEGSA; and (d)
training of INDE and EEGSA staff
4.    Project Description. The project included the following components: (a) a slice
of EEGSA's subtransmission and distribution expansion program for the 1987-1993
period, including a rural electrification program; (b) a national load dispatch center for
INDE, and the expansion of its communication system; (c) the rehabilitation of INDE's
two steam units located in Escuintla; (d) the completion of the studies for the Chulac and
Xalala hydro projects; (e) the purchase of vehicles, lab equipment and a computer for
INDE; (f) a training program for INDE and EEGSA; and (g) technical assistance to INDE
in finance, planning and administration.
C. Major Factors
5.    Project Conditionality. The conditionality included, inter alia, the following: (a)
in order to better coordinate their activities, INDE and EEGSA were to have the same
Board of Directors; (b) tariffs would be set at a level that would result in a rate of return
not lower than 5%; debt service coverage ratio should be at least 1.5 and capital
expenditures in excess of US$5 million would be subject to prior review by the Bank; (c)
arrears would be reduced to the equivalent of 60 days of billing; (d) EEGSA would
distribute all its net profit as dividends to INDE and other shareholders; and (e) INDE
would increase its ratio of customers per employee to no less than 40 by December 31,
1987 and no less than 75 by December 31, 1991. Additionally, two special conditions for



3
effectiveness were included: (a) the signing of a trust fund agreement to onlend the US$35
million to EEGSA; and (b) an agreement for the settlement of the arrears of EMPAGUA
with EEGSA.
6.    To improve the financial situation of the sector and reach the 5% rate of return
tariffs needed to be adjusted significantly. As a result of the major devaluation that had
taken place, the Quetzal had changed from 1 to 2.7 to the US dollar, a Back-to-Office
Report dated April 27, 1987 estimated that tariff increases of 20% in July 1987, 20% in
January 1988 and 30% in January 1989, a total of 87%, were needed. The Government
put in effect a 40% increase in December of 1987, but it resulted in strikes, the
involvement of Congress in the discussion of the issue and eventually in a lawsuit
promoted by the Office for the Protection of Human Rights. Eventually, the Supreme
Court ruled that the proposed increase violated human rights and the increases to the
residential sector had to be rolled back. After months of discussion with the Congress,
labor unions and the private sector, a 40% increase was put in effect in March 1988,
except for residential customers who consumed fewer than 300 kWh monthly. Because of
this exception, the tariff adjustment resulted in a 22% overall annual increase. In view of
the political climate, the Bank suggested that if meeting the project conditionality proved
too difficult, the Government might wish to request that the loan offer be withdrawn.
However, the Government reiterated the priority of the project and continued to lobby
Congress for authorization to sign the loan. Congress finally authorized it on March 23,
1988, but in the process it decided that the funds originally allocated for the energy
dispatch center, vehicles, lab equipment and a computer, training, and technical assistance
in management and administration (a total of US$19.7 million) would instead be used to
expand the generation, transmission and distribution networks.
7.    As a consequence of Congress' decision, the Loan Agreement was amended on
August 4, 1988, and while the project description was not modified, Bank financing was
deleted for the components rejected by the Congress. Financing for distribution and rural
electrification was increased slightly, but total Bank financing was reduced from US$81
million to US$70 million, of which US$35 million were still to be onlent to EEGSA. The
Loan Agreement was amended and signed on June 7, 1988. The conditionality was
amended as follows: (a) the 5% rate of return was to be applicable as of 1990; during
1988 and 1989 the rate of return was to be 4.6% and 4.3%, respectively; (b) the
reduction in arrears to the equivalent of 60 days of billing was to apply as of 1989; and (c)
the increase to 75 customers per employee was to be achieved in 1993, rather than 1991.
8.    After five extensions, loan effectiveness was declared on September 28, 1988.
This required the presentation of a financial rehabilitation plan for the sector, in which the
Government committed itself to: (a) limiting INDE's and EEGSA's investment programs,
as well as Government transfers to INDE; (b) raising tariffs by 10% on October 1, 1989
and then 2% per month until December 31, 1990, and (c) taking a series of steps designed
to improve efficiency and reduce overstaffing. Additionally, the special conditions for
effectiveness (the trust fund contract for onlending the funds to EEGSA and the contract



4
between the Guarantor, EMPAGUA and EEGSA) were converted into conditions for the
disbursement of the funds assigned to EEGSA.
9.    Although the loan was declared effective, a suspension of disbursements had been
communicated to Guatemala on August 30, 1988 because the country was in arrears with
the Bank. Therefore, the Bank informed the authorities that although the loan had been
declared effective, it would not be possible to process any disbursements in light of the
suspension of disbursements to the country. Subsequently, on October 31, 1989 the Bank
informed the authorities that it would proceed to suspend disbursements for the loan if it
did not receive evidence by November 10, 1989 that the agreed tariff adjustment had been
implemented. In view of the disturbances that accompanied the tariff increase put in effect
in 1988, the Government had chosen not to implement a new adjustment; consequently
disbursements were suspended on November 14, 1989. Subsequently, the Government
did put into effect a single 20% tariff adjustment beginning in December and in view of
this, the Bank rescinded the suspension of disbursements for the project on December 21,
1989. The country wide suspension, however, remained in effect until November 23,
1992. The Bank considered the 20% adjustment insufficient and requested a new financial
rehabilitation plan beginning in 1990.
10.  In the meantime, EEGSA and INDE prepared several tender documents, which
were eventually cleared by the Bank. At least one recommendation for award was
received, but given the country-wide suspension of disbursements, no commitment was
made by the Bank. On August 3, 1990, INDE wrote to the Bank requesting that the
commitment fee and interest charges (which at that time amounted to US$827,222.04 and
US$27,426.44, respectively) be recalculated from the date the loan was declared effective
and excluding the period during which disbursements of the loan were suspended (from
November 10 to December 21, 1989). On September 17, 1990 the Bank replied
explaining why this would not be possible. In view of the situation, on November 16,
1990 the Government formally requested the cancellation of that portion of the loan
assigned to EEGSA. On May 7, 1991 the Bank replied suggesting that the Government
might wish to wait before making this decision.
11.   As the suspension of disbursements to Guatemala was lifted in November 1992,
efforts were made to restart the project. In December of that year, the component to be
implemented by INDE was reformulated and updated, but the Government insisted in a
recalculation of the commitment fee and interest charges, as well as an extension of the
grace period, which by then had expired. Additionally, it was not clear that the financial
recovery program for the sector could be implemented. Therefore, on April 23, 1993 the
Bank agreed to a cancellation of the portion of the loan assigned to EEGSA, effective
November 16, 1990. Subsequently, on December 1, 1993 INDE requested the
cancellation of the funds assigned to it, and the request was confirmed by the Government
on December 13, 1993. The Bank agreed to cancel the remaining component as of
December 1, 1993.



5
D. Lessons Learned
12.   The main risks identified in the SAR were EEGSA's inexperience with Bank loans
and procedures and INDE's lack of experience in the construction of an energy control
center. The SAR also added that "implementation of staff restructuring and reductions,
and tariff increases sought under the project might be delayed, should the present
significant political support accorded to the newly elected Government weaken. Project
execution may also be affected if the Government is unable to move as quickly as planned
in carrying out its economic adjustment efforts". In retrospect, it is clear that the project
did not enjoy much political support because of its conditionality (tariff increases and staff
reductions) but also because of its design (as is evident by Congress' decision to eliminate
some of the project components).
13.   Even though subsequently the Bank clearly saw (as evidenced by the internal and
external communication) that the project did not enjoy political support, and that
addressing the serious financial problems of the sector was probably not feasible at the
time, the Bank was unwilling to cancel the operation for several years. Although there are
references to cancellation of the loan in the internal documents, that position did not
prevail. It is clear that the general suspension of disbursements made the situation worse,
and perhaps led to the belief that once it was lifted the project could be reformulated and
restarted on solid ground. It was of course impossible to know just how long the
suspension would last and that because of its duration, the Guarantor and the Borrower
would wish to renegotiate the commitment fee, the interest charges and the grace period.
Had this been foreseen, it is likely that the loan would have been canceled earlier.
14.   In retrospect, this experience highlights the need to ensure sufficient political
support for a proposed operation. There are instances when this might be difficult to
ascertain, but in the present case it was made obvious by Congress' actions and by the
difficulties in implementing tariff adjustments. In light of these two factors, it would seem
clear that the Bank should have canceled the loan earlier. In particular, it would seem that
when the Guarantor asked that the portion assigned to EEGSA be canceled, the Bank
should have agreed quickly and proposed that the rest of the operation be also canceled.
No useful purpose was served by prolonging a project that enjoyed little support and, at
the end, the effort made to keep the project alive most likely did not improve the relations
between the Bank and Guatemala.


















