Page  1
                                               September 22, 1989
Mr. Rainer B. Steckhan
International Bank for Reconstruction
 and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
U.S.A.
            Re:   Loan 2724-GU (Power Distribution
                  Project) Amendment
Dear Sirs:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Instituto Nacional
de Electrificacion, the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Guatemala and the Bank, and the Project Agreement between the Bank
and Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A., all dated June 7, 1988.
      Pursuant to prior discussions on the subject of tariff
increases please amend the Loan and Project Agreement as follows:
      1.    Loan Agreement
            Section 5.04 (a) and (b) shall now read as follows:
            "Section 5.04 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
            agree, the Borrower shall earn, for each of its fiscal
            years commencing on fiscal year 1991, an annual return
            of not less than 5% of the average current net value of
            the Borrower's fixed assets in operations.
            (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph
            (a) above, the Borrower shall:
               (i)      not later than October 1, 1989 increase the
                        average level of electricity rates charged
                        to final consumers by no less than 1O%;
              (ii)      by the first day of each month thereafter
                        until December 31, 1990 increase such
                        electricity rates by an average of not less
                        than 2.O%; and
             (iii)      promptly after implementing the increases
                        referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii)
                        of this paragraph, inform the Bank of such
                        increases;"
      2.    Project Agreement
            Section 4.04 (a) and (b) shall now read as follows:
            "Section 4.04 (a) except as the Bank shall otherwise
            agree, EEG shall earn, for each of its fiscal years
            commencing on fiscal year 1991, an annual return of not
            less than 5% of the average current net value of EEG's
            fixed assets in operations.
            (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of
                  paragraphs (a) above, EEG shall:
               (i)      not later than October 1, 1989 increase the
                        average level of electricity rates charged
                        to final consumers by no less than 1O%;
              (ii)      by the first day of each month thereafter
Page  2
                        until December 31, 1990 increase such
                        electricity rates by an average of not less
                        than 2.O%; and
             (iii)      promptly after implementing the increases
                        referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii)
                        of this paragraph, inform the Bank of such
                        increases;"
      The provisions of this amendment are to become effective on
the date the Loan Agreement becomes effective.  Please be advised
that the signatories of this amendment request are the
representatives of the Borrower, Guarantor and EEG in their
respective Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements.
      Please confirm your agreement to the above by signing the form
of confirmation below.
Sincerely yours,
                         Sincerely yours,
              EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLIC DE GUATEMALA
                   /s/ Authorized Representative
             By
                  Ministerio de Finanzas Publicas
               INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
                   /s/ Authorized Representative
              By
            PRESIDENTE EJECUTIVO DEL CONSEJO DIRECTIVO
                  EMPRESA ELECTRICA DE GUATEMALA
                   /s/ Authorized Representative
             By
                 PRESIDENTE DE LA JUNTA DIRECTIVA
Confirmed:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
/s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Authorized Representative
September 28, 1989
