Page  1
                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2724 GU
                      Project Agreement
                (Power Distribution Project)
                           between
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT
                             and
            EMPRESA ELECTRICA DE GUATEMALA, S.A.
                     Dated  June 7, 1988
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2724 GU
                      PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 7 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EMPRESA ELECTRICA DE
GUATEMALA, S.A. (EEG).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that EEG
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by a Fideicomiso  Contract to be entered into between the
Borrower, a bank and EEG, part of the   proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to EEG on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Fideicomiso Contract; and
     WHEREAS EEG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth.in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as  follows:
                          ARTICLE I
Page  2
                         Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise  requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble  to  this Agreement and
the General  Conditions  (as  so  defined)  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                         ARTICLE 11
              Execution of Parts A and D (iii)
                       of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) EEG declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the loan Agreement, and to this end,
shall carry out Parts A and D (3) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to other provisions of this Agreement, EEG
shall: (i) carry out the actions respectively assigned to it in the Plan of
Action in accordance with :its terms; and (II) not later than November 30
of each year, furnish to the Bank for its comments, a report on the progress
made In the carrying out of such actions.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants    services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. EEG shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. EEG shall enter into the Fideicomiso Contract with the
Borrower and shall duly perform all its obligations under the Fideicomiso
Contract.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EEG shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of      -ding, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Fideicomiso Contract or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) EEG shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Rank with regard to the progress of Parts A and D (3) of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Fideicomiso Contract, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
     (b)  EEG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to :interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by EEG of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Fideicomiso Contract.
     Section 2.06. In the carrying out of Part D (3) of the Project, EEG
shall:
     (a)  not later than December 31, 1989, furnish to the Bank for its
approval, the program to be carried out under such part of the Project ar.
well as the schedule for its implementation;
     (b)  not later than October 31 of each year furnish to the Bank a
detailed report of the training activities to be carried out in such
training program in the following calendar year; and
     (c)  carry out such program taking into account the comments, If any,
made by the Bank.
                         ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of EEG
Page  3
     Section 3.01. EEG shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs In accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. EEG shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. EEG shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. EEG shall, as and when required, take measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the improvement of its coordination with the
Borrower in the planning and operation of its distribution systems, and in
the financing thereof.
                         ARTICLE IV
                     Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) EEG shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and
financial condition, including separate accounts for its parts of the
Project.
     (b)  EEG shall:
          (i)  have its accounts and financial statements (balance
               sheets, statements of income and expenses related
               statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing, principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
               not later than four months after the end of each such
               year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
               for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
               audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said accounts and financial statements as well as the
               audit thereof and said records, as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, EEG shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
          (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in the
               annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report thereof contains, in respect
               of such separate accounts, a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
               in respect of such expenditures were used for the
Page  4
               purposes for which they were provided.
     Section 4.02. (a) EEG shall pay to the Borrower its electricity bills
within 45 days from the date on which the corresponding amounts were billed
by the Borrower.
     (b)  EEG shall reduce its accounts receivable for electricity sales
so that, commencing on December 31, 1988, such accounts receivable shall not
exceed the sum of the amounts billed by EEG during the two months
immediately preceding the date on which such calculation is made.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EEG shall:
(i) for net profits accrued in fiscal year 1988 and thereafter, commencing
on December 31, 1988 and each subsequent year, distribute to its
shareholders its net profits for each such fiscal year, after making
adequate provision for reserves in accordance with sound accounting
practices consistently applied; (ii) for net profits accrued until fiscal
year 1988 and not distributed, (A) during fiscal year 1987, distribute to
its shareholders not less than 50% of such profits, and (B) thereafter
gradually distribute the balance.
     (b) For purposes of this Section, the term "net profits" means, EEG's
gross income from all sources less all operating and administrative
expenses, depreciation, interest and other charges on its debt, and taxes.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EEG shall
earn: (i) for its fiscal year 1988 an annual return of not less than 4.6%
of the average current net value of EEG's fixed assets in operation; (ii)
for its fiscal year 1989, an annual return of not less than 4.3% of the
average current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation; and
(iii) for each of its succeeding fiscal years, an annual return of not less
than 5% of the average current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets In
operation.
     (b)  Commencing on January 1, 1989 and until December 31, 1989, EEG
shall: (I) take appropriate measures to reduce Its operating ratio gradually
each month in amounts sufficient to achieve an operating ratio for such
twelve-month period not higher than 96 percent; and (II) furnish to the Bank
each month a calculation of the operating ratio achieved for the period
between January 1, 1988 and the last day of the month preceding the month
in which the calculation is made.
     (c)  Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, EEG shall, on
the basis of forecasts prepared by EEG, and satisfactory to the Bank, review
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
     (d)  If any such review shows that EEG would not meet the require
facts set forth in paragraph (a) for EEG's fiscal years covered by such
review, EEG shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such
requirements.
     (e)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return shall be calculated by dividing EEG's
               net operating income for the fiscal year in question by
               one-half of the sum of the current net value of EEG's
               fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
               of that fiscal year, provided, however, that for fiscal
               year 1989 only, EEG's net operating income shall also
               include such amount of net operating income realized
               during fiscal year 1988 in excess of what shall have been
               required to comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)
               of this Section in fiscal year 1988.
          (ii) The term "net operating income" means total operating
               revenues less total operating expenses.
         (iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from
               all sources related to operations.
Page  5
          (iv) The  term  "total  operating expenses" means all
               expenses related to operations, including administration,
               adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
               taxes, and provision for depreciation on a straight-line
               basis at a rate of not less than 2.5% per annum of the
               average current gross value of EEG's fixed assets in
               operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but
               excluding interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average current gross value of EEG's fixed assets in
               operation shall be        calculated as one-half of the
               sum of the gross value of EEG's fixed assets in operation
               at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
               valued from time to time in accordance with sound and
               consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory
               to the Bank.
          (vi) The term "current net value of EEG's fixed assets in
               operation" means the gross value of EEG's fixed assets in
               operation less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
               valued from time to time in accordance with sound and
               consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory
               to the Bank.
         (vii) The operating ratio shall be calculated by dividing EEG's
               total operating expenses of the period in question by
               EEG's total operating revenues during such period.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EEG shall
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of EEG for the fiscal year
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever
is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of EEG for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of
EEG, including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "debt" means any indebtedness of EEG maturing by
               its  teras  more  than  one year after the date on which
               it is originally incurred.
          (ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
               contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
               such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment
               on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
               and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
               agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
               into.
         (iii) The  term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                    operations adjusted to take account of EEG's
                    tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of
                    debt even though they were not in effect during the
                    twelve to period to which such revenues relate and
                    net nonoperating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance,
                    taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                    provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                    operating charges and interest and other charges on
                    debt.
          (iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
               between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources other than those related
                    to operations; and
Page  6
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                    taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues la
                    (A) above.
          (v)  The term "debt service requirements" means theaggregate
               amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
               any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
          (vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
               Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
               valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
               lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
               at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
               purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
               such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Bank.
                          ARTICLE V
                Effective Date; Termination;
                 Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agree@t shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
EEG thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the @an Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify
EEG thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                         ARTICLE VI
                  Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request.  The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
     International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
          1818 R Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20433
     United States of America
     Cable address:                Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     For EEG:
          Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A.
     6  Avenida
     8-14 Zona I
     Guatemala, Guatemala
     Cable address:                Telex:
Page  7
          EMPRELGU                      5223
          Guatemala, Guatemala     EMPREL GU
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of EEG, or by EEG on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement,
may be taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons
as such President shall designate in writing, and EEG shall furnish to the
@ sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of whit--h shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                         Regional Vice President
                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                    EMPRESA ELECTRICA DE GUATEMALA, S.A.
                    By /s/ Raul Aquilar Arricillaga
                         Authorized Representative
