RESTRICTED
Report No.     PA-71a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTElRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
April 6, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                            =           Peso 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =           2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton (m ton)=            0.98 long ton
1,000 millimeters (mm)          =           39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                =           0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                  =           2.47 acres
1 square kilometer = 100 ha    =            0.39 square mile
=           247.11 acres
1 liter (1)                     =           0.26 gallon
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
RD$                                         Dominican Peso
GDP                                          G Gross Domestic Prodcct
DIA                                         Department of International Agreements
of the Central Bank
FIDE                                         Economic Development Investment Fund
T.PD                                         Livestock Project Division
DIT                             =           Department of Industrial Technology



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................              i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................................                 1
II.   BACKGROUND .......................................                 1
A.   General    .................................                  1
B.   Agriculture .................................                 2
General ...... ................                        2
The Livestock Sub-sector ...............               2
Land Tenure ................                           3
C.   Animal Hlealth ....... ...............                        3
D.   Livestock Services ..... ..............                       4
E.   Agricultural Credit Services ................                4
F.   Livestock Policies ..... .............                       6
III.   THE PROJECT ......................................                  7
A.   Description .......        ..........................         7
B.   Project Areas and Detailed Features .........                 8
C.   Cost Estimiates ......       ........................        9
D.   Proposed Financing .....        .....................       10
E.   Organization and Management ..............       ...        10
Leniding Channels ...................    ....         10
Technical Services .................     ....         11
F.   Lending Operations .....        .....................       13
Ranch Development Subloans         ....               13
Working Capital Loans ...............      ...        13
Terms and Conditions ...............     ....         13
Lending to Ultimate Beneficiaries ......              13
G.   Disbursement           ................................     14
H.   Auditing         ....................................        15
I.   Procurement ..... ... ..         . .......,                15
IV.   MARKET PRICES AND PRODUCERS' BENEFITS ..........        ..        15
A.   Market and Prices ......         .....................      15
The Cattle and Beef Mlarket ...... ........           15
The Milt Market ........... .. ...........            16
B.   Producers' Benefits and Revenue Generation ..               17
This report was prepared by Messrs. F. van Gigch, D. B. Argyle, R. Khouri and
W. Struben. Annex 8 was prepared by the Trade Studies and Export Projections
Division, Economics Department.  '                     1\



-2-
Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ....     .........    18
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .................................19
AisNEXES
1.   The Livestock Sub-Sector
2.   Banking System and Credit
3.   Development Projections
400-ha Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, Eastern Region
Table 1 - On-ranch Investment Projections
Table 2 - Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Sales, Operating Expenses, and
Operating Income
Table 4 - Financial Projections
100-ha Dairy/Beef Fattening Ranch, Northern Region and Cibao
Table 5 - On-ranch Investment Projections
Table 6 - Herd Development Projections
Table 7 - Projection of Sales, Operating Expenses, and
Operating Income
Tabile 8 - Financial PrQjections
.504iaD-eeftbalry TRancli, Niorthern Region
Table 9 - On-ranch Investment Projections
Table 10- Herd Development Projections
Table 11- Projection of Sales, Operating Expenses, and
Operating Income
Table 12- Financial Projections
4.   Project Cost by Major Investment Categories and Foreign Exchange
Component
5.   Management and Technical Services
Table 1      -  Cost Projections
Appendix 1   -  Organization Chart
Appendix 2   -  Duties, Responsibilities, and Authority of
the Project Director
Appendix 3   -  Duties, Responsibilities, and Authority of the
Livestock Assistant to DIA Director
6.   Projected Source and Application of Funds - FIDE's Livestock
Project Account
7.   Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements of a US$5.0 Million Credit
8.  I4arket Prospects in the World Beef and Veal Economy



9.   Financial and Economic Rates of Return
Table 1      -  Financial Rates of Return
Table 2      -  Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 1   -  Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate
of Return Calculation
MAP
Project Areas






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Dominican Republic has applied for a US$5.0
million IDA Credit to provide long-term funds for a livestock development
program. The objective of this Project would be to increase the supply of
beef and milk by increasing the productivity of livestock resources from
their existing low levels. The low calving rates, high mortality and slow
rate of weight gains encountered on most ranches are due primarily to
defective nutrition and, in general, unsatisfactory herd management methods.
On the few well-managed ranches in the country that have the proper facil-
ities and technical knowledge, production levels are high. The Project,
therefore, would supply participating ranchers with credit for on-ranch
investment and technical assistance to permit them to adopt modern cattle
production techniques. The resulting increase in production would assist
the Dominican Republic to continue to export beef in addition to satisfying
rising domestic demand. Milk production would supply existing dairy pro-
cessing plants, (principally for the manufacture of cheese) and future
plants which will produce condensed milk from imported milk products and
local whole milk. Thus, the Project would help the country improve its
balance of payments, and, by developing local expertise in livestock pro-
duction and its financing would set the stage for further livestock devel-
opment.
ii.       The Project would consist principally of improving about 260 beef
and dairy ranches in the Eastern, Northern and Cibao regions through credit
and technical services. Project funds would be channeled to ranches through
the overall banking system by the Central Bank's Economic Development Invest-
ment Fund (FIDE). On-ranch development subloans would be granted for land
clearing and preparation, pasture establishment and renovation, fencing,
watering points, cattle handling facilities, machinery and equipment,
and for purchase of cattle. Such loans would be for seven to 10 years,
with grace periods of two to four years, at a 9% per annum interest rate.
Participating credit institutions would also finance short-term loans for
working capital requirements from their own resources.
iii.      Participating ranchers would receive assistance from technicians
of participating credit institutions, supported by a newly created Livestock
Project Division (LPD) which would be established within the Department of
International Agreements (DIA) of the Central Bank. LPD would be headed,
during the disbursement period of the Project, by a qualified Project Direc-
tor, who would be assisted by a local staff. However, the Central Bank
recognizes that at this stage it is unlikely to find locally a man with suf-
ficient experience to fill adequately from the beginning of the Project the
requirements of Project Director. Thus, to secure sufficient expertise for
the Project during the start-up period and allow time to build up local ex-
pertise, the Central Bank would employ during the first three years of the



- ii -
Project a suitable technician, with experience in areas of other Bank/IDA
countries ecologically similar to the Dominican Republic, as Livestock As-
sistant to the DIA Director. Technicians of participating credit institu-
tions would be approved by the LPD and these, as well as the LPD staff,
would be trained on the recommendations of the Livestock Assistant to the
DIA Director.
iv.       Project cost, including incremental working capital, is estimated
at about US$9.0 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million would
finance tile foreign exchange component of about US$2.4 million and US$2.6
million of local costs. The contributions of IDA, the Central Bank,
participating credit institutions, and ranchers would be 55%, 15%, 13% and
17% percent respectively.
v.        Goods required for the Project would be procured through existing
commercial channels and there is enough active competition to ensure an
adequate supply and satisfactory service. Goods that would be imported are
usually available from a number of countries. Duties and taxes on goods,
that would be required for the Project, are low.
Vi.       Expected benefits to sub-borrowers and the overall economy are
satisfactory. The rate of return of the Project to the economy is estimated
at 21%o while the financial rate of return to participating ranchers would
range between 21% and 23%. Sub-borrowers' cash balances after debt service
would be adequate to encourage their participation. After about 10 years,
the Project would be expected to generate annually about 2,300 m ton of
additional beef, and 15.9 million liters of milk, equivalent respectively
to 8% and 6% of current national production. It would also generate an
annual flow of about 8,000 breeding heifers to build up the national herd.
vii.      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$5.0 million.  The
Credit would be made to the Government which would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The Government would on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to the Cen-
tral Bank, the Project's administering agency, for a term of 50 years, in-
cluding a 10-year grace period, at 3.5% interest per annum. The Central
Bank would utilize these funds for Project purposes for a period of 15 years.
Surplus funds arising from repayment of subloans and not required to service
the subsidiary loan would be used for further agricultural development lend-
ing.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Dominican Republic has applied, through its
Central Bank, for an IDA Credit to provide long-term funds for a beef and
dairy development project. This Project, which would be the first stage of
a long-range livestock development program, would consist principally of
improving about 260 beef ranches and dairy farms in the Eastern, Northern
and Cibao regions (Map) through credit and technical services. The objec-
tive would be to utilize a part of the country's substantial livestock
potential for increasing the supply of beef and milk. This would help ensure
sufficient output of meat to take advantage of recently developed export
opportunities and meet rising domestic needs. The increased output of milk
would be absorbed by existing cheese plants. The Project would help the
country to improve the balance of payments, and, by developing local expert-
ise in livestock production and its financing as well as disseminating tech-
nical information, it would set the stage for further livestock development.
1.02      A Bank Group Economic Mission to the Dominican Republic in January
1969 identified the possibilities of a livestock credit project. At the
request of the Government, Mr. J. Fransen of IDA visited the country in
June and September of 1969 to assist a team of Central Bank technicians
in the preparation of the Project. The completed application was received
in April 1970 and the appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. F. van Gigch,
D. B. Argyle, R. Khouri and W. Struben, visited the Dominican Republic in
September 1970. This appraisal report is based on the mission's findings.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      The Dominican Republic has an area of about 48,000 km  occupying
the eastern part of Hispanola, the second largest island in the West Indies.
It is bounded on the west by Haiti and has shores on both the Atlantic
Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. The population, 70% of which is rural, is
growing at about 3.0% annually, and was estimated at about 4.0 million in
1969.
2.02      After a decrease of almost 14% in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
following the revolution of 1965, GDP has increased at a satisfactory annual
rate since 1968 and in 1970 was about US$300 per capita. Prices have been
remarkably stable in recent years.
2.03      The Dominican Republic has suffered fr'-m a chronic gap in the
balance of payments since the early 1960's. Unfortunately, the market



- 2 -
outlook for the Dominican Republic's traditional exports is not expected
to improve in the short run, nor can it reasonably be expected that import
requirements will substantially decrease in the inmediate future. Con-
sequently, the development of non-traditional exports, such as beef (para.
4.03) and nickel (development assisted by an IBRD loan made in November
1969) and import substitution of commodities, such as dairy products (para.
4.06), are of high priority. The Dominican Republic has suitable resources
and market opportunities to achieve these objectives.
B. Agriculture
General
2.04      In 1968, agriculture in the Dominican Republic provided about one-
fourth of GDP, employed over 60% of the labor force, and generated about 90%
of foreign exchange earnings. However, agricultural growth has been limited
during the last decade. Wlile this was due mostly to political unrest and
bad weather, it was also a result of limited technical knowledge, financial
assistance, and Government services. Between 1957 and 1969, agriculture as
a whole, crops, and livestock production grew by only 11%, 7% and 21%,
respectively. Simultaneously, because of rapid population growth (para.
2.01), agricultural production per capita decreased by 25%.
2.05      Of the Dominican Republic's 4.8 million ha of land, 45% is in
farms of which 80% is actually developed. The grazing area is about 0.8
million ha, two thirds of which is in planted grasses (Guinea, Pangola).
Part of the undeveloped land could be developed into productive pasture
land with modern techniques and financial assistance. Leading agricultural
products are sugar, coffee, cocoa and tobacco, representing together about
85% of all exports, and cassava, plantain, beans, peanuts, tropical fruits
and livestock products, principally for the domestic market. In 1968 the
Dominican Republic imported about US$30 million equivalent of agricultural
products, principally wheat (US$8 million), dairy products (US$7 million),
and vegetable oils (US$2 million).
The Livestock Sub-sector (Annex 1)
2.06      About one-quarter of 1969's agricultural output was livestock
products: some US$46 million equivalent out of a total of US$191 million.
Cattle production consisted of about 30,000 m ton of beef and 250 million
liters of milk. According to the last census (1960), the cattle population
was 1 million animals; it is presently estimated at 1.1 million head. In-
adequate technology, excessive slaughter during the 1965 civil war, drought
conditions in 1968, and shortages of development finance have contributed
to this slow growth.
2.97      A large proportion of the cattle population is of criollo stock,
descendants of those introduced during the early days of colonization.
Tnese are less productive than improved breeds of cattle in terms of weight



- 3 -
gains and milk output, but hardy and resistant to the local diseases.
According to the 1960 census less than 3% of the 147,300 cows milked were
of pure improved dairy breeds (Holsteins, Brown Swiss or Jerseys) and about
16% were upgraded by crossing to Holstein or Brown Swiss bulls. During the
same year the national beef herd was composed of about 75% criollos, 22%
upgraded by crossing to Zebu, Brown Swiss and Charolais bulls, and 3% pure
beef breeds. These proportions would not have changed much since then.
2.08      Cattle productivity on most ranches is low due to poor manage-
ment, low levels of nutrition and disease. Usually beef herds have
effective calving rates of 40% to 60% and it takes steers three to four
years to reach slaughter weight of 400 kg liveweight. On a few properties
where imanagement, nutrition and disease control are at the level envisaged
for Project participants, calving rates are up to 80%, steers reach 400 kg
liveweight at two and a half years and the number of cattle per ha is above
average. On dairy ranches annual milk production is usually below 1,000
liters per cow and calf mortality is 15% to 20%. A few more efficient
ranchers have raised annual milk production per cow to about 2,000 liters
and reduced calf losses to 6-7%. There is, therefore, considerable scope to
improve ranch productivity. The main requirements are for development finance
for improving pastures, fencing and water supplies, and for purchase of
better cattle and machinery, plus technical guidance. On many ranches there
are also uncleared or partly cleared areas suitable for development.
Land Tenure
2.09      Most of the land in the Dominican Republic is owned privately
under freehold title. The rest is held under notarized documents that
show ownership but require a legal ruling to convert to a freehold title.
The subsequent registration is time consuming and subject to expensive fees.
Most commercial ranches have freehold titles except in the Eastern region
(Map), where it is estimated that only half the ranchers have them (para.
3.04).  The Agricultural Bank is prepared to lend to property owners without
a freehold title but with a legal ruling on the ownership. The com-
mercial banks will also sometimes lend without a freehold title, provided
other security is adequate. In general, lack of freehold title would not
preclude the opportunity of substantial lending for livestock development.
C. Animal Health
2.1U      The country i.S free of foot and moutlh disease but brucellosis
is a problem.  Other contagious diseases occastonally flare up but all
canl be prevented by modern veterinary control measures.  However, low
calving rates an<l poor productive performances are mainly a function of
poor managemenit rather thian disease and] could be reduced by improving
the nutritional stattus of animals (para 2.08). The Government is currently
manufacturinig brucellosis vaccine (Strain 19) and licenses the importation
of all veterinary vaccines and drugs. These are exempt from import dtuty
and are readily available at competitive prices.



- 4 -
D. Livestock Services
2.11      The University of Santo Domingo and the Pedro Henriquez Urena
University have veterinary and agricultural facilities which are both less
tihan 10 years old. The two universities annually graduate a total of about
30 veterinarians and 60 agriculturists, all with1 some degree of formal
trainiing in animal production.  This output should be more than sufficient
to mleet domestic requirements once the present siortage is relieved.  Pedro
henriquez Urena University is also planning the introduction of a five-year
degree curriculum in aninmal husbandry. About 20 university graduates have
already received advanced training in animal production abroad and 100 others
are currently doing so, (mainly under AID programs).  These should be
returning within the next three years to seek employment in the country,
and will alleviate thie current shortage of skilled technicians.
2.12      Agricultural extension services are provided by a number of
organizations but the Under Secretariat of Livestock is primarily respon-
sible for these services to the cattle industry. However, with only 36
veterinarians and 10 animal production technicians operating out of head-
quarters in Santo Domingo and seven field offices, the Under Secretariat
is hard-pressed and can offer only limited coverage of the country. The
Under Secretariat of Livestock is also responsible for livestock research
but ihas not given significant attention to livestock production and pasture
miainagement, primarily because of shortages in qualified staff and operating
funds. One of the universities has started screening tropical grasses and
legumes and hopes to extend the study to grazing trials. The other has just
acquired a farm and is currently finalizing a program of teaching and re-
search in animal production.  Government and university officials are
convinced of the importance of applied research, and both groups would
welcome financial and technical assistance in conducting studies on the
introduction of legumes into grass swards and the management of grazing
animals and pastures. Information on such subjects is lacking and is
sorely needed for development of the cattle industry.
E. Agricultural Credit Services (Annex 2)
2.13      Agricultural and livestock credit is provided by both public and
private credit institutions. The banking system in the Dominican Republic
is well developed with branches throughout the country.
2.14      Aggregate credit to the private sector increased 78%, from RD$ 134
million to RD$ 239 million, between December 1966 and June 1970. Over this
same period, credit to agriculture, excluding livestock, increased 36%,
from RD$ 46.2 million to RD$ 62.9 million, while credit to livestock
increased 60%, from RD$ 7.8 million to RD$ 12.5 million.
2.15      The Agricultural Bank provides about 70% of the livestock credit.
The maia source of funds has been a loan by the Inter-American Development



- 5 -
Bank (IDB) for US$6 million effective in 1963. Subloans under the program
are mainly for short to medium term development, with emphasis on the
purchase of steers and breeding stock. Repayment is usually over two to
five years, at an effective interest rate between 8% and 9% per annum. There
has been no limit on the size of loans, but the average size of RD$ 2,300
reflects the Agricultural Bank's traditional role, which has been to finance
small- and medium-size farmers and ranchers. Lending does not incorporate
a whole farm approach, and, because of the large number of small loans,
technical assistance is limited. The IDB funds have been fully drawn and
there is now a waiting period of some months before new approved subloans can
be funded from repayments. Government is, therefore, requesting a further
IDB loan and envisages that livestock subloans under it would have a
ceiling of US$10,000 equivalent in the proposed IDA project areas and
would cater mainly to the small- to medium-size ranches.
2.16      Livestock loans from the commercial banks are mainly short
term, with interest rates of 10% to 12% per annum. An exception has been
a Chase Manhattan Bank livestock program in which RD$ 1.4 million is out-
standing as medium-term sub-loans, made at an interest rate of 8% to 9%
per annum. This program has been mainly financed from a US$0.9 million
USAID loan to the Chase Manhattan Bank. With no further AID assistance
likely, future subloans under this program will be limited to rollover
funds. The commercial banks are aware of the need for long-term livestock
lending but as this would result in liquidity problems and is less profit-
able than short-term loans, they are not prepared to use their own funds
for this purpose.
2.17      In 1966, to assist productive enterprises in the country, the
Central Bank established a Department of International Agreement (DIA),
whose prime role was to administer a newly created Economic Development
Investment Fund (FIDE). The FIDE is financed by IDB, AID and the Central
Bank on approximately equal shares and it has provided about US$18 million
for long-term development loans, mainly to industry. Funds are channeled
through the general banking system, with the sub-borrower receiving long-
term loans at 9% interest, inclusive of the technical assistance provided
during the development period. Loan requests forwarded by participating
banks are reviewed by DIA's staff and a final decision is made by the
FIDE's Loan Committee which includes the Governor and Manager of the
Central Bank. A few agriculture and livestock loans have been made from
the FIDE but neither the Central Bank nor most participating banks have
had specialized livestock staff or looked upon the FIDE as an important
source of livestock lending. However, the Central Bank considers that FIDE
should now broaden its lending to provide development funds for commercial
ranchers.  They see this as fitting in with their general concept of aiding
commercial-sized enterprises able to utilize capital and technical knowl-
edge effectively and as opening up new lending channels to an important
subsector. Thc proposed IDA Project would provide the necessary funds
and withi thieir past experience in FIDE's other operations the participating
banks should have sufficient confidence to appoint livestock specialists
and to make long-term livestock loans.



F. Livestock Policies
2.18      The Government is aware of thie need to nake a concerted effort to
accelerate agricultural growth and is trying to create the appropriate
legal aud institutional framework.  This is reflected in the Agricultural
and Livestock Development Law of December 1969, whlich is the most complete
enunciation of official agricultural development objectives yet produced
in the Dominican Republic. Tils law exempts from import duties most agri-
cultural inpupts and provides a uax lkoliday on t4e first RD$ 7,500 income
fromi agriculture as well as on all agricultural income from producers owning
agricultural assets of up to RD$ 75,000.
2.19      Under the Industrial Incentive Law of 1968, industries wishing to
establish themselves in the Dominican Republic may request, from the Depart-
mtent of Industrial Technology (DIT) of the Ministry of Industry, the classi-
lLcation of "Industries of high priority".  This classification exempts
beiieficiaries from most import duties on equipment and on raw materials
wizen ttie domestic supply of the latter is considered insufficient. Two
dairy processing industries 1/ for condensed, evaporated and powdered milk
have been granited classification B , which exempts them from nearly all
import duties 2/. They are now in the process of establishment and will be
able to use either imported dairy products or local whole milk. If these
new plants utilize a reasonable quantity of local whole milk, they would
develop local livestock resources and save foreign exchange, while, by
(r)mLbiniug local milk with cheap imported dairy products, producing a reason-
abLy priced end product. There are few guidelines to assist DIT to determine
if local supplies are insufficient and discussions with DIT indicated that
it wjould be hard pressed to find the necessary local expertise to make such
evaluations. The Ministry of Industry indicated that it would welcome tech-
nical and financial assistance in evaluating the market and economic impact
of the new dairy firms after a reasonable start-up period and in designing
criteria to guide dairy imports policy (para. 4.06).
2.20      The Government is interested in encouraging exports of beef,
"aiiile ensuring an adequate supply to the local market at reasonable prices.
However, the scarcity of cattle relative to demand of the domestic and ex-
port beef markets has caused cattle and beef prices to increase rapidly
(para. 4.01). To limit further rises thie Government has imposed maximum
cattle .nd beef prices to protect consumer prices and to prevent the country
frovmi pricing itself out of the export market. These prices are set at a
I/   One will be a Nestle's group factory which is expected to be operational
by May 1971. The other is Dominican-owned and its completion is not
certain. Both are located in the Cibao region.
2/   The aggregate of different charges levied on non-exempt imported dairy
products is US$0.32 per kg, plus 55% ad valorem.



- 7 -
reasonably high level 1/ and would be only a minor disincentive to invest-
ment in livestock development. Moreover, they are not strictly enforced
and producers are receiving about 10% above the legal limit. It would be
politically difficult for the Government to remove the present pricing
policy, despite its limited effectiveness. Because the beef exporting
companies also supply part of the local market the Government requires that
there be a relationship between their export and their local sales. When
deliveries to the local market have fallen too low in relation to exports,
the Government has on several occasions suspended exports for short periods
until the relationship has been restored. The Government believes that the
only way to achieve an adequate supply of beef, for both the domestic and
export markets at reasonable prices, is to encourage cattle development and
it considers the proposed Project as a most important instrument in bring-
ing this about.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The Project consists of the development of about 100 beef
breeding/fattening ranches in the Eastern region, 120 dairy/beef fattening
ranches in the Northern region and Cibao, and 40 beef/dairy ranches in the
Northern region (Annex 3). Participating producers would receive long-term
subloans and technical assistance with which to introduce more productive
pastures, suitable ranch facilities and equipment, and superior herd manage-
ment techniques to raise calving percentages, reduce mortality and increase
herd productivity in terms of the beef and milk output. In addition, short-
term loans would be provided to sub-borrowers during the development period
to purchase steers to be fattened on surplus feed available during herd
buildup, and to cover incremental operating expenses.
3.02      The Project would also provide overseas training for three or
four local technicians for a total of about 12 man-months. There is a pro-
vision for pasture field trials which would be subcontracted to the Ministry
of Agriculture and the universities and be performed under the supervision
of the Project Director Cpara 3.16). Finally, the Project would finance the
hiiring of consultants for a total of about six man-months to assess the
economic and market impacts of the dairy processing plants that are being
established in the Dominican Republic (para 4.06).
1/   The maximum legal price for steers is US$0.41 per kg liveweight.  This
compares favorably with prices per kg prevailing in other exporting coun-
tries, e.g. Argentina and Uruguay, US$0.25; Paraguay, US$0.19; Guate-
mala, US$0.35; Costa Rica, US$0.36; Australia and New Zealand, US$0.30.



- 8 -
B. Project Areas and Detailed Features
3.03      The Project would comprise three Project areas:  Eastern, Northern
and Cibao (Map). Together, they include most of the comwnmercial cattle
ranches except those in the specialized ae:d well-developed fluid zlilk regions
around Santo Domingo.  All areas are tropical buit there is coasiderable
variation in the amount and inciden-ce of rainfall and in th-e type of enter-
prise.
3.04      The Easteni area, wtiich includes tlhe provinces of El Seibo and La
Altagracia and parts of San Pedro De Macoris and La Romana, has an annual
rainfall of 1,500 to 2,00)0 nw), rmost of it in the summer.  Nornally, the dry
season is only three month,s and, although longer droughts that severely
curtail production occasionally occur, tihey rarely result in loss of mature
animals.  The area is used mainly for beef production and ranches are
larger than in the other two Project areas. A 400 ha beef breedinig/fatten-
ing ra±ich (Annex 3, Tables 1 to 4) would be the typical project participanlt
in tihe Eastern area. Although reliable statistics are not available, there
are at least 500 ranches of over 200 ha in this area, about half of wlhich
have freehold titles (para 2.09). it is estimated that about 100 ranchers
would participate.
3.05      The Northern area includes the Atlantic coast provinces of Puerto
Plata, Maria Trinidad Sanchez and parts of Espaillat and Samana. Rainfall
occurs mainly in the winter and varies from 2,300 nn in the east to 1,000
mm in the west. Ranchies are generally dual purpose, with milk going into
cheese manufacture. In this area, the Project would typically finanice about
eighity 100 ha average dairy/beef ranches (Annex 3, Tables 5 to 8) and about
forty 250 ha average beef/dairy ranches (Annex 3, Tables 9 to 12). There
are an estimated 600 ranches of over 60 ha eligible for participation in
the Project.
3.06      The Cibao Valley area, noted for its fertile soils and intensive
croppirng, adjoins the Northern area and includes parts of the provinces of
Santiago, La Vega, Espaillat, Sanchez Rwnirez, Salcedo and Duarte. Annual
rainfall is lower than that in most other parts of the country and ranges
from 1,000 to 1,500 mm.  A large number of medium-size ranches produce for
fluid mimilk consumption and cieese.  The estimated forty project participants
in this region would be typically 100 ha average dairy/beef ranch similar
to that envisaged fcr the Northern area.
3.07      The Project's ranch development strategy would center on improving
the nutritional status and management of cattle. The Project would finance
pasture establishment or renovation through brush clearing, introduction
of legumes into pasture swards and fertilization, principally with phos-
phates.  Although experience with the use of legumes in pastures is limited
in the country, results in similar ecological regions of the world suggest
that species such as Siratro and Kudzu would perform adequately in the
Dominican Republic. The pasture field trials to be carried out under the
Project would cast additional light on the matter (para 3.02). Rotational



- 9 -
grazing, to permit better utilization of pastures and extend their useful
life, would be encouraged by financing the construction and restoration of
fences and increased supplies of water. The Project would also provide for
fodder conservation equipment (tractors and forage harvesters) to decrease
the effect of seasonal droughts. Proper management of stock, including
cattle health care, would be facilitated by financing corrals, dipping baths
and weigh scales.  The Project would also finance the purchases of in-calf
heifers and breeding bulls. Short term finance would be available to cover
incremental operating costs, including the purchase of feeder steers, during
the development years. Technicians provided by participating banks and
the Central Bank would assist ranchers in the preparation of ranch plans
and ensure that these are effectively carried out. The Project would finance
a total of about 260 commercial beef and dairy ranchers. It is expected
that 70 producers would join the Project during the first year, 110 during
the second and 80 during the third. Investment in each participating ranch
would be phased over two to three years, with total disbursement expected
to take five years (para 3.24).
C. Cost Estimates
3.08      The estimated cost, including incremental working capital require-
ments during the disbursement phase, is equivalent to US$9.0 million. De-
tails are given in Annex 4. The Project's estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is about US$2.4 million, or 27% of estimated total Project cost. The
following table summarizes the estimates of the Project costs by major in-
vestment categories.
US$'000 and RD$ '000
% of
Project % Foreign
Category                      Local  Foreign  Total   Cost       Exchange
On-Ranch Investment
Pasture Development               1,050     815   1,865      21         44
Installations                    1,570      515   2,085      23         25
Machinery and Equipment             305     700   1,005      11         70
Cattle                            2,275     170   2,445      27          7
Sub Total           5,200   2,200   7,400      82         30
Technical Services                    250     200      450      5         44
Incremental Working Capital Li    1,150       -      1,150     13          -
Total               6,600   2,400   9,000    100          27
/1   Estimated average incremental working capital requirement of the Project
during the disbursement period.



3 N~tr-'Q
- 10 -
D. Proposed Fina!ning
3.09      The estimated cost would be financed as follows:
IS' 000 -/1
IDA    Central  Participating
Category                Credit    Bank         Banks       Ranchers  Total
On-Ranch Investment            4,700   1,200          -          1,500    7,400
(Percentage Share)           (64%)   (16%)                     (20%)    (100%)
Technical Services               300      150         -            -         450
(Percentage Share)           (67%)   (33%)                               (100%)
Incremental Working Capital    -          -        1,150                   1,150
(Percentage Share)                                (100%)         -       (100%)
Total               5,000   1,350       1,150         1,500    9,000
(Distribution)      (55%)   (15%)       (13%)         (17%)    (100%)
/1   Figures are rounded.
3.10      An IDA Credit of US$5.0 million would finance 64% of on-ranch in-
vestments and 67% of technical services, or about 55% of the Project cost.
About US$2.6 million, equivalent to approximately 50% of the proposed Credit,
would finance local currency expenditure.
3.11      Participating banks are not at present willing to supply long-
term funds from their own resources. They would, however, contribute the
incremental working capital, which is expected to average about US$1.2
million over the disbursement period with a peak of US$2.0 million in Year
4. The contribution of the participating banks is considered satisfactory
in view of other demands and the high legal reserve requirements (Annex 2,
paras 26-28), part of which will be used by the Central Bank for its contri-
butiori to the Project.
E. Organization and Management
Lending Channels
3.12      The Government of the Dominican Republic would be the borrower and
would bear the foreign exchange risk. It would make available the proceeds
of the IDA Credit to the Central Bank where they would be deposited in the
Economic Development Investment Fund (FIDE) as a Development Credit Account
(para 2.17). The Central Bank, through its Department of International
Agreements (DIA), would act as the Project administering agency, while super-
visory authority would be vested in the FIDE's Loan Committee.



- 11 -
3.13      Subloans to ranchers to finance on-ranch investment would be
channeled through the overall banking system. The Central Bank would extend
re-financing privileges under the Project to any commercial bank, state
bank or development finance company considered credit-worthy by the Central
Bank, willing to participate in the Project, adhere to its lending policies,
accept the credit risk for loans to sub-borrowers, provide adequate technical
services and finance necessary working capital during ranch development. A
subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA would be made between and signed
by the Central Bank and each participating bank before any Project funds
would be channeled through the participating bank. At least one such agree-
ment would be signed as a condition of effectiveness. Assurances on these
points were obtained during negotiations.
Technical Services
3.14      Participating banks 1/ and DIA would provide Project-related techni-
cal assistance to producers taking part in the Project. Such services would
consist principally of:(a) helping producers to prepare ranch development
plans; (b) recommending such plans to participating banks; (c) supervising
the implementation of development plans; and (d) advising ranchers and
farmers in matters of herd, pasture and ranch management. To ensure the
performance of these duties, a Livestock Projects Division (LPD) would be
established within DIA, headed by a Project Director (para 3.16) under the
direct line of responsibility of the DIA's director. The Project Director's
responsibilities are described in Annex 5. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that LPD would be set up prior to effectiveness of the Credit.
3.15      Assistance in on-ranch development programming would generally be
the responsibility of the Livestock technicians of the participating banks.
During negotiations, IDA received assurances that these technicians would
be acceptable to both the Project Director and the Livestock Assistant to
the DIA Director (para 3.16). Participating banks' technicians would be
trained on the recommendation of the Livestock Assistant to the DIA Director
and would be responsible for supervising progress in actual ranch invest-
ment. They would also be expected to provide sub-borrowers with technical
guidance during the ranch development period, satisfactory to the Project
Director and to the Livestock Assistant to the DIA Director. Two of the banks
expected to participate have technicians and it would be possible for the
others to recruit technicians who could be trained adequately at an early
date.
3.16      During the disbursement period, LPD would be headed by a Project
Director, satisfactory to IDA. As development is dependent on the introduc-
tion of improved livestock and pasture development and management techniques
for tropical conditions, it is essential that the Project Director be fully
qualified and experienced in this field. While the Dominican Republic has
a number of academically qualified technicians, there is a relatively short
academic tradition in animal husbandry (para 2.11) and practical experience
in this advanced technology in the country. Consequently, the Central Bank
1/   This term includes development finance companies.



- 12 -
recognizes that it Is unlikely to find locally a man meeting the requirements
of Project Director in terms of both traini.ng and experience. Thus, to
secure sufficient expertise for tae Project during the start-up period and
.311ow simultaneously the build-up of 'or.al "ncertfse, the Cenitral Bank
would employ during the first three yesrs of the 'Proect a sul table tech-
nician with experience in areas of other Bank/IDA cotntries ecologically
similar to those of tLle Dominican R public, as Livestock Assistant to the
DIA Director.  He would have primiary responsibility for recomuending the
engagement, promotion and dismissal of LPD's technical staff and for train-
ing them and the technical saisff of part:Jcipati-g barin,ks to prepare investment
plan! and supervile their operac7.i -.  .4u ranchi dt-vrelopment plan or its fi-
tiancing under the Project would be approved, or suusequently modified, except
on the recommendation of the Livestock Assistant to the DIA D)irector.  He
would also be responsible for recoimmending and supervising the pasture field
trials financed under the Project (para 3.02).  During the first three years
of the Project, the Project Director would be charged, inter alia, with
executing the recommendations of the Livestock Assistant to the DIA Director
and would take full responsibility for directing the Project thereafter.
'The duties, responsibilities and authorities of the Project Director and of
the Livestock Assistant to the DIA Director are set forth in more detail in
Annex 5.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a Project Di-
rector and a Livestock Assistant to the DIA Director would be employed res-
pectively for the disbursement period and the first three years of the Project,
under terms and conditions, and with duties, responsibilities and authority,
satisfactory to IDA and the Central BanDk, and with qualifications acceptable
to both institutions. Their appointments would be conditions of effective-
ness of the Credit.
3.17      The Project Director would be assisted by about three teclhnicians,
recruited from the iaost qualified local technicians available.  During the
second and third years, about three local technicians, selected by the Live-
stock Assistant to the DIA Director, would be granted three- to six-month
fellowsihips for training abroad financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
!l,' s technical staff would be responsible for: (a) reviewing the on-ranch
development plans prepared by the participating banks to assure that they
comply with the Project's technical guidelines; (b) supervising the techni-
cal assistance provided by the participating banks; and (c) providing com-
plementary technical assistance to sub-borrowers. In particular, they would
ensure that, as required, all cattle on participating ranches would be reg-
alarly dipped or sprayed for external parasites; drenched for internal worms;
and vaccinated against brucellosis, and other contagious diseases. During
negotiations, IDA obtained assurances frotn Government that it would at all
times make available to participating ranchers sufficient locally produced
or imported brucellosis vaccine (para 2.10) and would allow the importation
of sufficient quantities of all other required veterinary products not lo-
cally produced.



- 13 -
F. Lending Operations
Ranch Development Subloans
3.18      Applications and subloans would be processed and serviced by
participating banks, which would be responsible, through their technical
services, for assisting applicants in preparing on-ranch development plans
in accordance with the standards set by DIA. Participating banks which
would bear the full credit risk and subloans would normally be secured by
real estate mortgages, based on acceptable titles, or chattel mortgages on
livestock and equipment, or both.
Working Capital Loans
3.19      Cost projections for each on-ranch development plan would include
for each development year estimates of short-term loan requirements. These
would be approved by the Livestock Assistant to the DIA Director, and the
participating banks would then undertake to extend loans in accordance with
the estimates. Appropriate assurances were obtained during negotiations.
Terms and Conditions
3.20      The Government of the Dominican Republic would on-lend the pro-
ceeds of the IDA Credit to the Central Bank for 50 years with a grace period
of 10 years and an interest rate of 3.5% per annum. The Central Bank would
utilize these funds for Project purposes for a period of up to 15 years to
allow for the approval of 10-year loans in Project Year 3, plus an allowance
for one to two years' slippage. FIDE would refinance 100% of eligible sub-
loans received from the participating banks on the same repayment and grace
periods as those for the subloans. The interest charged would be 5% per
annum (the same rate as other FIDE re-financing), the spread of 1.5% per
annum being necessary to cover the technical service costs. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.21      The Central Bank would make available funds, through the Develop-
ment Credit Account, for on-ranch development loans on a one-to-four basis,
relative to IDA funds. It would make a start-up contribution of US$200,000
equivalent. Similar to its present FIDE contributions the Central Bank con-
tribution would be interest-free in order to strengthen the FIDE operations.
Surplus funds accruing to Development Credit Account from repayment of sub-
loans and not required for servicing the subsidiary loan would be utilized
for further lending for agricultural development. The cost of technical
services not financed by IDA would be financed by the Central Bank.
Lending to Ultimate Beneficiaries
3.22      Participating banks would extend subloans to ranchers to cover about
80% of eligible on-ranch developuent costs.  Development subloans would be
approved for a term of seven to 10 years, including a two- to four-year grace
period, at a 9% per annum interest rate. This is in line with prevailing



- 14 -
rates for rural credit, consistent with FIDE's other programs and would be
acceptable to ranchers. Subloans in excess of US$100,000 would require prior
approval of IDA. The borrowing and on-lending interest rates proposed for
the participating credit institutions are identical to those of the successful
industrial development program of FIDE (para 2.17). Since agricultural sub-
loans would be as costly to prepare and administer as industrial subloans,
a similar interest spread of 4% is considered necessary for active
participation. Agreement on the terms and conditions of lending, sublending,
and refinancing outlined in this section were obtained during negotiations.
G. Disbursement
3.23      Disbursement from the Credit would be as follows:  (a) 80% of
FIDE's payments under the on-ranch development loans (64% of ranch develop-
ment cost) disbursed by FIDE to the participating banks. Disbursements would
be based upon appropriate documentation submitted by participating banks
to the Central Bank and would include a statement of investment items, cer-
tification by the lending bank, and approval of the Livestock Assistant to
the DIA Director that the disbursements were for approved Project purposes;
(b) 100% of total expenditures made for: the Livestock Assistant to the DIA
Director, training fellowships, research grants, and dairy marketing consul-
tants' fees (para 3.02); (c) 80% of total expenditures made for the Project
Director; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment; and
(e) 30% of the salaries of other professional and secretarial staff, per
diem, gasoline, etc., of the LPD. Disbursements would be made against ap-
propriate documentation from the Central Bank.
3.24      Full disbursement would be achieved over five years, as shown
in the following schedule. An estimated 86% of the total is expected to
be disbursed within three years.
Y e a r
Category                  1        2       3        4       5    Total
---- ------  --US$  000------------
Ranch Development             867   1,629   1,562       522     120   4,700
Technical Services             66       99      83       28      24      300
Total               933   1,728   1,645      550      144  5,000
The phasing of disbursements for each major investment category and the
forecast of estimated disbursements on a quarterly basis are shown in
Annex 7.



- 15 -
H. Auditing
3.25      The Central Bank and each participating bank would maintain sep-
arate accounts for Project activities and their accounts would be audited
annually by an independent accounting service, acceptable to IDA. The De-
velopment Credit Account in the Central Bank would be divided into sub-
accounts to adequately record the operations of the Project and in particu-
lar the further lending for agricultural development. Audit reports of these
accounts would be submitted to IDA not later than three months after the
close of respective fiscal years. There are several well-known international
auditing firms in the country, who at present audit most credit institutions,
that would be acceptable to IDA. The Superintendent of Banks would audit the
account in the Central Bank. Appropriate assurances were obtained during
negotiations.
I. Procurement
3.26      International competitive bidding would not be appropriate for
this project since individual contracts would be small and numerous, and
the size and mix of farm investments would vary greatly. Goods required
for ranch development, such as pasture seed, fertilizer, fencing materials,
machinery and equipment, frozen semen, would be procured through existing
commercial channels. All cattle would be from local sources. These channels
are adequate, there being several, sufficiently competitive retail outlets
for most required goods. Goods that would be imported are usually available
from a number of countries. Duties and taxes on goods, that would be re-
quired for the Project, are low. There are adequate facilities for servic-
ing and maintaining agricultural machinery, and private contractors are
available for construction of fences, water supply and other facilities.
IV. MARKET PRICES AND PRODUCERS' BENEFITS
A. Market and Prices
The Cattle and Beef Market
4.01      The market outlook for Dominican beef is good and has improved
since 1967 when significant beef exports commenced to Puerto Rico and the
continental United States. Production has not kept pace with demand and
this has resulted in sharp rises in real cattle and beef prices. The price
of a steer heavier than 250 kg liveweight increased from an estimated 0.30
US$/kg (0.14US$/lb) in 1960 to about 0.45 US$/kg (0.20 US$/lb) in September
1970, reaching a level of about 10% above the fixed price (para 2.20). The
increase in beef price between 1960 and 1970 has been about 50%, compared
with an increase in the average price level of about 20%. In spite of these



- 16 -
highi prices Dominicani beef still sells on the Puerto Rican market due to
locational advantages relative to competitors and because it is mainly good
quaLity beef cuts, sonie of which are priced as high as US$1.90 per kg FOB
Santo Domingo.
4.02      The domestic market now absorbs about 85% of an estirated annual
beef production of 32,000 m tons.  WiL1i population growing at 3' per annum,
moderate increases in per capita inconme could becure an annual growth in
doumestic beef demand of about 5%, unless further lags in supply result in
large price increases.
4.03      Beef exports to Puerto Rico and Continental US have increased
from about 500 m ton in 1967 to about 4,900 m toni in 1969.  Since 1968
tlhese exports have been subjected to a system of voluntary restraint,
based on individual agreements between the United States and exporting
countries.  The share of the Donminican Republic in the 1970 agreement
was initially 5,000 m tons (11.0 million lb) buit was subsequently raised to
5,200 m tons (11.5 million lb). Witlh the cattle scarcity, the Dominican
Republic will have difficulty meeting this requireiment.  Furthermore, the
United States beef import market is expected to increase during the 1970's
at 2.5% to 3.0% per annum (Annex 8).  Growth of the export market combined
with increased domestic demand would result in an overall growth rate of
about 4.5% to 5.0% during the 1970's. Producers could, therefore, count
on a market for about 18,000 m toins of additonal beef by 1980. As develop-
ments outside the Project are expected to meet only part of this increased
requirement the 2,300 m tons resulting from the Project by full development
(about 1980) could be comfortably absorbed.
4.04      The existing beef marketing infrastructure would serve adequately
the needs of the Project. Four slaughterhouses meet US standards and are
certified to export to the United States, and there are, in addition, two
relatively modern meat processing plants catering to the domestic market.
A large number of municipal abattoirs of variable but generally poor effi-
ciency ald sanitary standards also serve local consumers. Transportation
facilities are adequate.
The MLilk Market
4.05      Except for the small proportion that could be sold as fluid
milk to the regional market, the bulk of milk production generated under
the Project would be sold to existing dairy plants, principally for
cheese.  Although it is difficult to quantify the growth prospects of the
cheese industry, three of the principal cheese plants in the Northern region
and in Cibao indicated that they had recently achieved a growth in sales
of about 10% annually. One of them was in the process of expansion suggest-
ing that the cheese market is firm. It is, therefore, expected that the
incremental output of the Project, wlhich, at full development (about 1980)
would be about 16 million liters, or 6% of present milk production, could
also be comfortably absorbed by the market.



- 17 -
4.06      While the possibilities of dramatic increase in fluid milk
consumption are limited in the short run, substitution of dairy imports
could, in due course, substantially widen the market for dairy farmers.
During 1968, the Dominican Republic imported about US$6.8 million worth of
dairy products -- 10 times the average in 1958-60 -- for approximately 100
million liters of fluid milk equivalent, about one-fourth of overall
consumption. Actual import substitution, however, will depend upon the
performance of the dairy plants being established under the Industrial
Incentive Law (para 2.19), and in turn would largely depend upon the
administration of this Law, particularly in regard to dairy import policies.
Because the pertinent legislation is imprecise on the matter, it is
impossible to prejudge at this stage the market and economic impact of the
new dairy plants. In view of the importance of this issue for the future
development of the dairy sub-sector, IDA received assurances during negotia-
tions that, by the second anniversary of the establishment of the first
dairy plant under the Industrial Incentive Law, the Central Bank would hire
consultants with qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to
IDA, to carry out a dairy marketing study.
B. Producers' Benefits and Revenue Generation
4.07      Typical sub-borrowers could be expected to double their disposable
annual income after about eight years. (Annex 3, tables 4, 8 and 12).
Results based on projections for illustrative ranches are summarized below:
Before       After 5      After 10
Development     Years         Years
---___------- RD$ '000        
400 ha Beef Ranch
Net Income                             9.8          16.4          25.3
Debt Service                           0.5           6.3           5.2
Net Income After Debt Service          9.3          10.1          20.1
Increment After Debt Service            -            0.8         10.8
Incremental Value of Herd               -           32.0         53.9
250 ha Beef/Dairy Ranch
Net Income                            11.0          13.3          25.1
Debt Services                          0.3           5.0           4.4
Net Income After DebL Service         10.7           8.3          20.7
Increment After Debt Service            -           (2.4)        10.0
Incremental Value of Herd               -           31.5         62.0
100 ha Dairy/Beef Ranch
Net Income                             4.4           9.8          14.7
Debt Service                           0.2           4.3           4.0
Net Income After Debt Service          4.2           5.5          10.7
Increment After Debt Service            -            1.3          6.5
Incremental Value of Herd               -           14.4          31.4



- 18 -
The estimated financial rate of return would range between 21% and 23%,
which is satisfactory for a project of tbiis nature (Annex 9, Table 1).  Au
increase in costs or a decrease in sales of the order of 10% would not
affect substantially the level of these returns.  An increase of 10% in
costs, combined with a similar decrease in sales, would drol) the rates of
return to about 14% to 17%.
4.08      Ranchers' total incomes are composed of cattle and milk sales,
net of operating expenses, plus cattle retained to build up the herd, the
latter representing the lower limit of personal savings generated by the
Project. Average annual savings in Ple form of cattle retention, would
be about 18% of ranchers' total incremental ranch incomes, althlough during
the first five years of the Project, virtually all incremental income
would take the form of herd build-up. It is likely that participating
ranchers would also continue to save part of their additional disposable
income. Because of the tax holiday benefitting agricultural producers
(para 2.18), public savings generated by the Project would be negligible.
V. ECONiOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
5.01      The following table summarizes important direct benefits attri-
butable to the Project:
At Full
Development
Unit per        Before       After      (Year 12)
Item                   Year        Development   5 years   (Amt.)    m
Beef Production           '000 m ton        1.9          2.8       4.2     220
Sales of Breeding
Heifers                '000 head          -           3.9       7.3      -
.ilk Production           Million liters  15.7          28.4     31.6      200
Gross Sales               Million Pesos    3.7           6.7       8.4     230
/1   Relative to levels expected annually before development.
Ihe increase in annual beef production at full development would be about
8% of estimated 1969 production. It would approximate the maximum quantity
of beef the Dominican Republic agreed to export to the U.S. during 1970,
but which it finds difficult to ship due to the present scarcity of cattle
(para 4.03). Thus, the Project would assist the country in taking advantage
of beef export opportunities. It is also significant that the Project would
generate a substantial flow of heifers to expand the national breeding herd.
5.02      The rate of return to the economy of the overall Project is about
21%o (Annex 9, Table 2). It was estimated by aggregating expected incremental
cash flows of participating farmers and charging to the Project the technical
services costs. Net transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies are
negligible and were disregarded. The estimate, hwever, does not take into



-- 19 -
account non-quantifiable benefits.  Utder the Project, new superior livestock
production techniques woould be introduced; local expertise througb in-service
training and training abroad would be deve.loped; information on better pasture
development and utilization wouild be generated through adaptive research; and
participating credit institutions would become familiar with livestock devel-
opment financing. Providing further funids were available such changes would
lead the way to implementing a broader long-term livestock development prog-
ram that would significantly contribute to the use of available, but as yet
untapped livestock resources, tlhereby diversifying t.he national economy, now
dependent upon only a few products.
Vt I.  RECOMIENDAT IONS
6.01       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  The Government would make available to the Central Bank the
proceeds of the IDA Credit on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to IDA (para 3.20) ;
(b)  Tfhe Central Bank would:
(i)  extend refinancing privileges under the Project to
aany commercial bank, state bank or development finanice
company meeting Central Bank requirements and willing
to adhere to Project lending policies, accept the
credit risk for loans to sub-borrowers, providle ade-
quate tecinical services and finance necessary working
capital (para 3.13);
(ii)  refinance 100% of eligible subloanis, based on investment
plans approved on the authority of the Livestock Assistant
to the DIA Director, at a rate of 5% per annum for the same
term and grace period as those set for the subloan (para 3.2(0);
(iii) make available funds for on-ranch development loans on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.21);
(iv) cause participating banks to provide development sub-
loans to ProjecL sub-borrowers under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.22); and
(v)  hire consultants, withl qualifications and under terms
of reference acceptable to IDA to carry out a milk
marketing study (para 4.06).
6.02       In addition to the customary conditions it has bE:en agreed that,
as conditions of effectiveness, the Central Bank would:



- 20 -
(a) execute a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with at least one par-
ticipating bank (para 3.13);
(b) establish a Livestock Projects Division within the Depart-
ment of International Agreements, under the direct line
of responsibility of the Director (para 3.14);
(c) appoint a qualified Project Director under terms and condi-
tions, and with duties, responsibilities and authority
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.16); and
(d) appoint for three years a suitable Livestock Assistant to
the DIA Director, with qualifications satisfactory to IDA,
under terms and conditions, and with duties, responsibilities
and autliority satisfactory to IDA (para 3.16).
6.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$5.0 million.  The
Government would be the borrower, and would on-lend the proceeds of the
Credit to the Central Bank, the Project's administering agency, for a term
of 50 years, including a 10-year grace period, at 3.5% interest per annum.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Livestock Sub-sector
A. Beef and Milk Production
Cattle Production
1.        The last agricultural census, conducted in 1960, showed that the
cattle population totalled some 1 million animals. Present estimates
indicate that cattle numbers had increased to about 1.1 million head by
1969. Several factors contributed to the slow growth rate of the cattle
population in the past decade, namely, inadequate technology, excessive
slaughter of animals during the 1965 civil war, drought conditions in 1968,
and shortages of development finance. About 10% of the cattle are classified
as work oxen, 25% as beef animals, 20% as dairy cattle and the remainder
as native multipurpose village animals. About a quarter of 1969's total
agricultural output was in the form of livestock products, namely, US$46.0
million out of a total of US$191.0 million. As far as cattle are concerned,
this amounted to about 30,000 tons of beef and 250,000 tons of milk.
2.        Dairy farms are concentrated around the capital city of Santo
Domingo and in the Cibao Valley and cattle ranches in the eastern part of
the country. Mixed operations are common in the northern region where
milk is supplied for cheese manufacture and meat is sold either for
processing or for consumption elsewhere in the country or abroad.
Breeds
3.        Over 40% of the cattle population is of criollo stock descended
from those introduced during the early days of colonization. These are poor
producers but are hardy and resistant to the many endemic diseases. Their
production could be vastly increased by up-grading, better management and
improved feeding. Less than 3% of the 150,000 cows milked in 1960 - the
last census year - were of pure dairy descent: Holsteins, Brown Swiss or
Jerseys and about 16% were upgraded by crossing to Holstein or Brown Swiss
bulls. During the same year, the national beef herd was composed of about
75% criollos, 22% upgraded to Zebu, Charollais, and Brown Swiss bulls and
3% pure beef breeds. One result of such breeding programs has been the
development of the Romana Red breed in the southeastern part of the country.
Management of Stock and Pastures
4.        Of the country's total of 4.8 million ha, pastures presently
total about 0.8 million ha, two-thirds of which are in introduced grasses



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(Pangola, Guinea and African Star). Despite the introduction and wide
acceptance of improved grasses, pastures remain understocked and under-
utilized - an average of about one animal unit/ha on land with a potential
of at least two - and nutrition remains the main obstacle to the increase
in cattle productivity. This is mainly because properties are not sub-
divided into a sufficient number of paddocks to allow for better grazing,
there is a lack of legumes in pastures, and to a lesser degree because
surplus feed is not harvested and stored as silage or hay. On many ranches
there are also uncleared or partly cleared areas suitable for pasture
development. In due course, the national grazing area could be increased
by developing a portion of the 2.5 million ha of undeveloped land, mostly
Government owned.
5.        Farmers are generally unaware of the benefits associated with
the introduction of tropical legumes into pasture swards (higher intake,
digestibility and nutritive value of herbage and greater fertility of
soils). In addition, adequate pasture fertilization to increase dry matter
production is seldom practiced.
6.        Inadequate nutrition, coupled with poor management and disease,
has resulted in low production parameters. Effective calving rates in
beef herds range between 40% and 60%; calf mortality rates on dairy farms
are as high as 15% to 20%; and age at first calving is close to three years.
In general, dairy cows produce no more than 1 ton of milk per lactation
on pasture, and beef steers require at least three years to reach a
marketing weight of 400 kg. Town supply dairy farmers are primarily
dependent on concentrates and not on pasture to promote high levels of milk
production. A few notable enterprises, where management, nutrition, and
disease control are at levels similar to those envisaged for ranches
participating in the proposed Project, indicate what could be achieved
with improved technology. For example, on the La Cortina and Romana
ranches, which have proper facilities and are run by trained managers, the
effective calving rate has been increased to about 85% and the age at first
calving and steer marketing has been reduced to slightly over two years.
Similarly, in the Sosua settlement, milk production has been raised to
about 3 tons per lactation with minimal feeding of concentrates. By improv-
ing and subdividing pastures, constructing cattle handling facilities,
harvesting and storing forages, and upgrading the herds, and by receiving
technical assistance in herd management, nutrition and health care, par-
ticipating beef ranchers could, in about 5 years, increase calving
percentage to 75%, reduce adult cattle mortality to 2%, and succeed in
selling 400 kg - 30 month old - steers. Likewise, dairy/beef producers
would increase calving percentage to 80% and increase milk production to
about 1,500 liters per cow.
Animal Health
7.        The country is free of foot and mouth disease but has its fair
share of other contagious diseases. Estimates indicate that from 12% to
15% of the cattle population is afflicted with brucellosis and 4% to 6%
with tuberculosis. Piroplasmosis and anaplasmosis are endemic but are a



ANNEX I
Page 3
serious threat to health only in the case of imported animals. In the
wetter areas, foot-rot- is a problem and in dairy herds, mastitis.  Among
the enzootic diseases that flare up in restricted areas under conditions
of stress are hemorrhagic septicemia, black leg and bacillary hemoglobinurea.
Parasitic diseases cause considerable losses, particularly in younger
animals. The most important are gastrointestinal and pulmonary worms,
liver flukes and ticks. Nutritional diseases have not been investigated.
However, claims are made that animals suffer from deficiencies of protein,
minerals and vitamins. With the exception of tuberculosis, most animal
diseases found in Dominican ranches can be prevented by modern veterinary
control measures, such as vaccination, spraying, dipping, and drenching.
Vulnerability to these diseases could also be reduced by improving the
nutritional status of animals by introducing legumes into pastures, better
management of grazing, supplementation with minerals, and storage of
surplus grass as hay or silage.
B. Livestock Services
8.        Until recently, Government services to the cattle industry were
the primary responsibility of the Veterinary Department of the Secretariat
of State for Agriculture. These services were, in the main, directed at
the surveillance of slaughter at municipal abattoirs and at the control of
livestock and veterinary imports. Shortages of equipment, facilities,
transport, operating funds and trained livestock technicians, however,
restricted field services to a bare minimum. To rectify the situation,
Government upgraded the Veterinary Department in early 1970 to the rank
of Under Secretariat and provided it with more funds for the recruitment
of staff. The Under Secretariat is composed of five divisions - animal
production, poultry production, animal health, veterinary laboratories
and nutrition laboratories.
Education
9.        Two universities and four agricultural high schools offer
courses in animal husbandry and veterinary medicine. The Autonomous
University of Santo Domingo annually graduates some 25 veterinarians and
30 agriculturalists. Seven animal husbandry courses are included in the
veterinary curriculum and four in the agricultural curriculum. The
Pedro Henriquez Urena University was established in 1966 and should
graduate the first crop of veterinarians (six) and general agriculturalists
(30) in 1971. University officials are, however, concerned about the
operating costs of the Veterinary School. They would rather phase out of
veterinary education and introduce instead a new five-year degree course
in animal production. About 20 university graduates have already received
advanced training in animal husbandry abroad and 100 others are currently
in such training. These would be returning within the next three years to
seek employment in the country and should greatly ease the present shortage
of technicians.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Researcli
10.       The main Government research center is located in San Cristobal,
20 miles southwest of Santo Domingo. It has recently been equipped under
a USAID program administered by Texas A&M but has not yet conducted any
research in livestock production or pasture management, primarily because
of shortages in qualified staff and operating funds. Associated with
thie wain center are seven reglontal sub-stations whiclh, for the same reasons,
are not presently being utfiJzed for research in animal production.
11.       The Autonomous University oF Santo Domingo has a 400-ha research
and teaching farm at Engombe, on which over 60 species of tropical grasses
and legumes are being screened in small replicated plot trials.  Staff
members wish to expand this study to more extensive grazing trials but
anticipate considerable financial restrIctions.  The University is also
receiving financial and technical assistance under a four-year UNDP/SF proj-
ect to develop its training program in animal production and veterinary
medicine.  The project has provided the University with experts in animal
breeding, animal nutrition, milk processing and soils, as well as laboratory
and milk processing facilities. The Pedro Henriquez Urena University has
recently (1970) acquired a 700-ha farm close to Santo Domingo that is to
be used for teaching and research. Development work has already been
started and a nucleus herd established.
12.       Applied demonstration-type field studies on pasture development
and livestock management are being conducted by commercial organizations
such as the La Cortina and Romana ranches, the Sosua settlement and the
State Sugar Corporation.
Extensioni
13.       The extension service of the Under Secretariat of Livestock is
lheadquartered in Santo Domingo. With a total of 36 veterinarians and 10
livestock technicians operating out of seven regional sub-stations, the
service is hard pressed and can offer only token coverage of the country.
Extension services are also provided by the veterinarians and livestock
technicians employed by the banks, particularly those of the Agricultural
Bank. These services are, however, almost exclusively restricted to
bonafide custoniers.
Veterinarv Services
14.       Veterinary services are the primary responsibility of the
Animal Health Division of the Under Secretariat of Livestock. These include
surveillance of slaughter at municipal and exporting abattoirs, control of
livestock and veterinary imports and disease prevention programs such as
vaccination against brucellosis, spraying against ectoparasites and
drenching against worms.  Limited services are also provided by the
veter4nary faculty of the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo and by
the veterinarians employed by the Agricultural Bank.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
15.       Government's veterinary, diagnostic and feed analysis laboratories
are located at the main research center in San Cristobal and are under the
jurisdiction of the Veterinary Laboratories Division of the Under Secre-
tariat of Livestock. Those of the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo
are at the Engombe Farm. Both are adequately equipped and are rendering
worthwhile services. Brucellosis vaccine (Strain B19) production was
started a few months ago at San Cristobal and plans call for stepping up
production to meet country requirements.
16.       The Under Secretariat of Livestock controls the entry of
veterinary drugs, vaccines, live animals and frozen semen into the country
by the granting of import licenses. Veterinary drugs are imported duty-
free from both Europe and North America and are available at competitive
prices. Among the better known firms represented are CIBA, Bayer, Pfizer,
American Cyanamid, Abbott, and Merck Sharp and Dohme. Vaccines, live
animals and frozen semen can also be imported duty-free but only from the
United States, Canada and Puerto Rico in order to prevent foot and mouth
disease from entering the country.
Animal Breeding
17.       Government started an artificial insemination program two years
ago but soon abandoned it. Instead, present policy is to encourage the
importation of frozen semen and breeding animals from North America. Four
importers are currently catering to this policy, each representing one
of the following U.S. cattle breeding companies - Carnation, Curtiss, Nova
and American Breeding Service.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banking System and Credit
A. Banking System
Introduction
1.        The banking system of the Dominican Republic includes the Central
Bank, three state banks, two national private banks, five foreign private
banks, two development finance companies, and a state housing institute.
The system is controlled by a Monetary Board and supervised by the Office of
the Superintendent of Banks.
Central Bank
2.        The Central Bank, an autonomous Government institution, was es-
tablished in October 1947 and has headquarters in Santo Domingo. Its prime
responsibility is to control credit and foreign exchange activities so as
to promote monetary stability and the progressive development of the country.
It has the necessary legal powers and responsibilities to perform these func-
tions and keeps a close control of the banking system.
3.        The governing body is the Monetary Board which is composed of the
Governor of the Central Bank (who presides), the Minister of Finance and
five appointed representatives of the private sector. The Governor is the
chief executive officer of the Central Bank and is responsible for the direc-
tion and supervision of its affairs. He is appointed by the Executive Branch
for a term of three years and may be reappointed. The present Governor has
been in the post for seven years.
4.        The immediate direction and internal administration of the Central
Bank are entrusted to the Manager, who is also Chief of Personnel. The
present organization of the Central Bank includes the Department of Economic
Studies (responsible for the preparation of statistics and indices), the
Department of Foreign Exchange (responsible for all foreign exchange trans-
actions and exchange controls) and the Department of International Agree-
ments (see paras 6-8).
5.        The Central Bank is an efficient organization and has good staff.
In recent years it has made reasonable profits and has built up its reserves.
Annual consolidated financial accounts are shown in Table 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Department of International Asreements
6.        Because the Central Bank did not have a proper mechanism for
handling international credits for the country's economic development, the
Mlonetary Board, in 1965, established the Department of International Agree-
ments (DIA). Its chief functions are to:
(a) administer an Economic Development Investment Fund
(FIDE). Loans are not made directly by thie Central
Bank and all funds are channeled througlh the banking
system to the ultimate borrower;
(b) prepare and justify loan applications to be submitted
to national, regional and international finance insti-
tutions to obtain funds for FIDE;
(c) review and analyze projects submitted to the Bank by
intermediatary credit institutions and, if necessary,
prepare such projects; and
(d) carry out any other study of the Republic's position
in agreement with regional and international financial
agencies.
7.        The Department of International Agreements is subordinate to the
Mtanager of the Central Bank. It has a Director, Deputy Director and three
technical divisions -- Project Analysis, Loan Administration, and Interna-
tional Financial Relations. The staff carry out studies of all projects
submitted, draw up the necessary documents and disburse funds. Final de-
cisions on loan approvals are made by a Loan Committee comprising the
Governor, Manager, Legal Counsel and the Director of the Department of
Economic Studies, with the Director of DIA as Secretary.
83.       The funds of FIDE have been obtained from loens from IDB, AID,
and the Central Bank. Participating credit institutions pay 5% interest
for two- to ten-year periods and lend to the ultimate borrower at an inter-
est rate of 9% per annum for similar periods. Details of lending operations
are given in Table 2.
A'tgricultural Bank
9.        The Agricultural Bank was founded in 1945 as an autonomous public
institution to increase production by granting low interest long-term loans
to the agricultural and agriculturally oriented industrial sectors. How-
ever, after an initial period of lending on these principles, the Bank be-
came Increasingly a source for financing various state enterprises. It
managed and administered various, often non-agricultural, enterprises. In
1961, after the death of Trujillo, the Bank was reorganized with a number of
enterprises transferred from its management, a rearrangement of Government-
relAted assets and liabilities (including liquidation of some debts) and



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the introduction of new operational procedures. During the early 1960's
the Bank undertook a large-scale lending program to small farmers and be-
came closely involved with price stabilization and marketing. Recently, as
a result of a 1968 examination of the Bank by external consultants, it has
been decided to transfer the price stabilization and marketing functions
to other Government entities. Other recent developments include the in-
stallation of a computer, which should improve efficiency. A considerable
amount of technical assistance has been and is being provided by AID and
IDB.
10.       At June 30, 1970, the total assets of the Bank were RD$118 mil-
lion. As can be seen from Table 3, much of this is in Government bonds,
inventories and other assets. Of the operating assets of cash and loan port-
folio, about 40% is tied up in old loan paper resulting mainly from the
large volume of small loans made in the early 1960's. Much of this old
paper is not considered collectable and only limited time is spent on en-
deavoring to do so. The balance of the Bank's loan portfolio is better
managed and has much lower default and arrears rates. With the introduction
of electronic data processing, it is expected that a review can be made of
many old loans and necessary action taken to write off or pursue collection.
11.       Major sources of Bank funds have been the Government (both as
original capital and as a result of various transfers of assets), AID, IDB,
the Central Bank (for short-term advances), bonds and other borrowings.
Despite delinquent loans, the Bank has adequate resources to cover liabili-
ties.
12.       The Bank loses on its agriculture lending and grain handling but
this is offset by income from Government bonds. Costs are comparatively
high, but the Bank appears to be improving its efficiency. As further
long-term funds become available profitability should steadily improve.
Table 4 shows past details.
13.       Of particular interest to this Project is the IDB Livestock Pro-
gram, which has lent RD$18 million since 1965. Repayments have been quite
good with RD$9 million having been fully repaid and most current loans up
to date with payment. Loans have been largely for cattle, both imported
and local. Technical service and a whole farm approach has not been used.
Terms to ranchers are usually 3-4 years for repayments with an interest
of 8% per annum plus a 1% service charge in the first year. Average
loan size has been about RD$2,300 and covers a broad range. Funds from IDB
have been fully drawn and a further loan is being requested by the Dominican
Government to assist small and medium ranchers. The details of this request
have not been finalized.
14.       The Agricultural Bank will participate in the IDA project for loans
above RD$ 10,000 and should be an effective participant. It has technical
staff that, with training, are capable of meeting requirements.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Commercial Banks
15.       Banco de Reservas.  This is the largest commercial bank.  It is
state-owned, autonomous and profitable. The principal offices and two
branches are in Santo Domingo and there are nine branches and 20 agencies
throughout the country. It has been an active participant in FIDE opera-
tions for which it has a special professional group, and is expected to be
an active participant in the Project.
16.       Banco Pppular.  The Banco Popular is the only privately-owned
Dominican Bank and has offices in Santo Domingo and in the Project areas.
It is also an active participant in the FIDE operations with a professional
group for this purpose, and is likely to participate in the Project.
17.       Chase Manhattan Bank.  The Chase Manhattan Bank has offices in
Santo Domingo and Santiago. It has been active in livestock lending through
an AID loan and has specialist staff for this purpose. Its original funds
from the AID loan are now exhausted and it is likely to participate strongly
in this Project.
18.       Royal Bank of Canada.  This bank has been in the Dominican Repub-
lic for nearly 60 years and has offices in the Capital and Project areas.
It is fairly active in short-term cattle lending mainly to long-established
clients.  While it has not been very active in FIDE, the Bank showed con-
siderable interest in the Project.
19.       Bank of Nova Scotia.  The Bank of Nova Scotia is mainly a commer-
cial bank with offices in Santo Domingo and Project areas. It has not had
much investment in livestock but expressed interest in this Project.
20.       Bank of America.  The Bank of America was only established in
1968 and the Manager indicated interest in expanding its limited portfolio
through this Project.
21.       The First National City Bank.  This bank has branches in Santo
Domingo and Santiago and has showed interest in the Project and is likely
to participate.
22.       In discussions the banks indicated that they would not be able to
contribute to the Project's long-term investments. They were, however, all
interested in retailing the funds of FIDE on the basis of 100% funding
by the Central Bank. They were also prepared to provide the necessary
working capital provided 50% of this could be rediscounted with the Central
Bank.  Working capital requirements are estimated to reach over RD$1,000,000
during the first four years and are an essential part of the Project. The
lilelv participation of a number of commercial banks should enhance the
pro:spects of the Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Finance Companies
23.       Financiera Dominicana.  The Financiera Dominicana is a general
finance company created in 1968 and financed by local capital and an AID
loan. To date, it has not lent to the agricultural sector but showed keen
interest in participating in the Project. It appears well organized, and is
in a sound financial position. This would be its first use of Bank Group
funds.
24.       Financiera G. & W.  This is an associate company of the G & W group
which controls the Dominican Republic's largest sugar estate and its largest
ranch at la Romona. The management showed considerable interest in the
Project.
B. Legal Framework of Banking and Credit
Laws Relating to Banking
24.       The principal laws relating to banking are:
(a) "Ley Monetaria", which governs monetary matters (Decree
No. 1528, October 8, 1947);
(b) "Ley Organica del Banco Central de la Republica Domini-
cana", which governs the Central Bank (Decree 6142 of
December 29, 1962); and
(c) "Ley General de Bancos", which governs all banks (Decree
6186 of February 12, 1963).
In addition, all state banks were formed under their own legislative decrees.
Legal Reserves
26.       All commercial banks in the Republic are required to be operative
under one of two systems of legal reserve and deposits in the Central Bank:
(a) the old system, and (b) the new system.
27.       Old System.  For all deposits at March 3, 1967, the following re-
serves are required:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(a) 50% of demand;
(b) 30% of savings and time; and
(c) 100% of foreign money.
For all incremental liabilities after March 3, 1967, the requirements are:
Savings, Time
and                    Demand
Special Deposits             Deposits
(%)                      (%)
Central Bank Reserve                             15                        25
Special Central Bank A/C (2% interest)           20                        55
Credits to Productive Lending                    45                        20
Credits to Commercial Lending                    20
There are various incentives for banks investing more than 50%, 60% or 70%
of their loans in productive enterprises, and penalties for being belowy the
required percentage of productive loans. All banks except the Bank of Amer-
ica are on the above system at present. A new system, which has varying
degrees of attractiveness to the banks, has been introduced. It is envisaged
that, in time, the banking system will switch to the new system but no bank
is obliged to conform to it.
28.       New System.  Requirements for the various types of deposits are:
Savings, Time
and                    Demand
Special Deposits             Deposits
(x)                      (Z)
Reserves at Central Bank                         15                        25
Special A/C at Central Bank (2% interest)        15                        25
Credits of more than one year to Production   10                            5
Other credits to Production                      35                        20
Credits to Commerce                              25                        25
100                       100
29.       All banks are audited by the Superintendent of Banks.  The private
banks have external auditors and there are several internationally known
firms of auditors available.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Interest and Discount Rates
30.       Under the Monetary Board regulation, maximum lending rate of in-
terest is 12Z per annum from awn resources. For external lines of credit,
the rate is determined in conjunction with the Central Bank and in the case
of FIDE funds is 9%. Credit available to ranchers in from 82 to 9% from
the Agriculture Bank and Chase Manhattan for short- and aedium-term, and
10-12% from other banks for short-term finance for steer fattening.
31.       The Central Bank has giNTen very limited discounts in the past.
The amount to the commercial banks for livestock has been very small.  The
Agricultural Bank receives ahort-term advances from the Central Bank.
C. Credit
32.       Between December 1966 and January 1970 , total bank credit to agri-
culture, excluding livestock, increased 36% from RD$46.2 million to RD$62.9
million while livestock lending increased 60% from RD$7.8 million to RD12.5
million. Despite these increases, their share of total bank credit declined
from 34% to 27% for agriculture and from over 5% to below 5% for livestock.
See Table 5 for details.
33.       The Agricultural Bank provides about 70% of livestock lending with
funds derived mainly from an IDB loan of US$6.0 million approved in 1963.
Funds are for development, but in general, loans have been to small farmers,
and for one or two specific items, particularly livestock. Loans are mainly
repayable from two to five years, occasionally seven, and have an 8% to 9%
interest and service charge. The lack of a whole farm approach and the
large number of loans make it difficult for the Agricultural Bank techni-
cians to have an impact on improving overall production coefficients. In
general, loans are adequately secured and many loans have been fully repaid.
34.       The IDB will shortly be appraising a second livestock loan to the
Dominican Republic. The Government envisages that the funds from this
second loan will be utilized mainly on small- and medium-size ranches and
would complement the IDA nro.ert, which will provide loans in excess of
RD$ 10,000.
35.       In 1966 , AID lent the Chase Manhattan Bank US$500,000 to invest
in development of the cattle industry by means of short- and medium-term
loans. In 1968, a further US$400,000 was loaned, subject to a matching sum
from Chase Manhattan. The full US$1.3 million has now been disbursed, with
stock, clearing and buildings being the major items. No further AID lending
is forecast at present so that this program is restricted to the roll-over
funds. The funds were obtained from AID at 4% and are lent to farmers at 8%
plus a technical charge in the first year of 1/2% to 1%. The Bank has em-
ployed three livestock technicians to appraise proposals and to supervise
implementation.



ANN   2
Page 8
36.       Livestock loans from the other caercial banks are nearly all
short-term with intoret of 10  to 12%; they have been a small part of such
banks' total portfolio for many years. There is a desire sonm the corner-
cial banks to lead ore for livestock, particularly if funds can be obtained
from external sourets.
37.       At present, livestock lending from finance companies is small,
but two companies expressed interest in the loan and this could reeult in
their more active participation in the sector.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BIANKING SYSTEM AND CREDIT
Central Bank of the Dominican Republic
Balance Sheet as of June 30
Year
1967     1966     1969     1970
----------RD$000 ----------
ASSETS
Gold and Foreign Currency:
Gold and Deposits                        37,637   33,928    35,53   25,682
Securities                                  500      750       750    8,354
Contributions to Intern'l Org.            8,9)43    9,293    9,993    9,993
Local Currency:
Coin                                      1,162    1,400     1,302       828
Advance and Rediscounts                  33,070   34,989    34,961   29,487
Bonds                                    75,245   84,845    93,433  109,097
Shares in State Banks                    11,980   32,016    32,016   32,016
Securities                                8,544    8,544     8,743    9,727
Contribution to Intern'l Org.            25,985   28,216    31,497   32,678
Other Assets                             28,601   11,577    21,197   27,915
Total                                 231,677  245,558   269,428  285,778
LIABILITIES
Foreign Currency:
Obligations                              44,850   34,100    30,611   22,993
Local Currency:
Currency in Circulation                  61,724   63,914    68,025   81,652
Monetary Deposits                        41,438   61,823    65,908   75,624
Special Deposits                         43,263   40,717    49,331   40,067
Other Obligations                        25,611   26,625    33,259   39,974
Other Liabilities                         5,020   10,953     3,366    2,941
FIDE                                        300      300       300       300
Reserves and Capital                           9,471    7,126    18,628   22,227
Total                                 231,677  245,558   269,428  285,778
April 6, 1971



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANKING SYSTEM AND CPEDIT
4                                      Economic Development Investment Fund (FIDE)
Loan Approvals by Intermediaries and Source May 1966 to June 1970
Approvals            Source of Funds
Intermedia-te Institution                  Number   Amount      AID                IDB          Central Bank
-__________________--- RD'OOO ---
Banco de Reservas                             136     7,301     2,423              793             4,083
Banco Popular                                  86     8,604      3, L1           2, 340            2,723
Cornoracion Fomento In.lustriel                63     1,3839    1,954            2,023               412
First National City Bank                       11     1,78h        h61             125             1,198
Chase Manhattan Bank                            4       660        360             200               100
Royal Bank of Canada                            4       656        282             374                -
Cia Financiera Dominicana                       4       666         50             266               350
Banco Agricola                                  1       290        290              -                 -
Bank of Nova Scotia                             1       147        -               147                _
Total Approvals                                 214,536    9,376            6,268             8,892           L
Leos not Disbursed                             6,436     2,423              832             3,181         CD
Repayments                                     3,158     1,320            1,159               686         M K
Outstand:ing Loans                            14,942     5,633            4,276             5,034



ANNEX 2
Table 3
DOWNICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANKING SYSTEM AND CREDIT
Agricultural Bank of the Dominican Republic
Balance Sheets 1965 to 1970
Dec. 31        Dec. 31         Dec. 31        Dec. 31         Dec. 31        June 30
ASSETS                                                    1965            1966           1967            1968           1969             1970
-- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -  D$'O0    --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cash on Hand and in Banks                                              2,117          2,563           3,876          9,480           9,637           7,107
Loans Receivable                                                      56,732         58,291          57,803         56,865          57,802          62,375
Less Reserve for Uncoliectables                                     16,000         16,000          22 002          22,956         22 993          23 0O4
40,732                                         3,291 303,9 39,371
Accounts Receivable                                                    5,243          5,864             797           1,516          3,528           4,528
Inventories (Price Stabilization)                                      7,040          8,244           1,594          7,106           7,468          6,790
Realizable Value of Property Acquired                                  2,810          2,692             599            711             773             789
Investments:
Dominican Government                                                33,059         33,059          33,059          33,059         37,793          37,793
Utility Bonds                                                        1,190          1,190           1,190           1,190          1,190           1,190
Other                                                                4 734          4 734           4 734           6 636          1,833           1 782
3b,963         30:903           T0O 3         4               40,c16         40:765
Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment                                        587            537             519            414             4o8             397
Land and Buildings                                                     1,423          1,701           1,755          1,715           1,637           1,608
Prepaid Expenses                                                         361            661           1,544            984           2,077           3,023
Deferred Interest Income - Loans and Discounts                         5,243          6,68o           7,097           7,541          7,249           8,181
- Investments                                 5,229           7,190            357             428             848          1,884
Other Assets                                                           1,509            692           1,064           1,391          2,999           2,492
TOTAL ASSETS                                                       1_,27,         118098           2s3a26        10 o680         112i249         117 06
IABILITIES
Deposits                                                                 533          1,467             520           1,058            653             553
Accounts Payable                                                      21,367         21,194           2,056           3,148          3,376           3,367
Short-Term Loans:
Central Bank                                                         4,0°°          6,392           5,125         10,930          11,010          13,941
Banco de Reservas and Other                                            500            29              515           1,300          1 050           i,4oo
4,500         7L               5,640         12,230          nt5            15,341
Long-Tern Obligations:
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB)                                 3,849          4,417           5,421          6,115           6,830           7,096
Agency for Inter. Dev. (517-L-010 Loan)                                -              -             2,o84           5,590          9,360           9,453
Price Stsbilisation-AID                                              2,175          2,025           2,267          2,564           3,620           3,829
Special Project Funds-AID                                              100          2,842             840          1,311           3,367           3,460
Other                                                                  100            -               176           1 217          1 181           1 034
6,224 ~9,284              10,7001679 24,358
Funded Debt (Bonds)                                                    9,432          7,984           6,917          6,187           4,983           4,846
Interest Earned Not Collected- Loans                                   5,243          6,68o           7,097          7,541           7,249          8,181
- Investments                             5,229           7,190            357             428             848          1,884
Othsr Liabilities                                                        987          1,479           3,426          1,546           1,611           2,643
Total Liabilities                                                   53,515         62,966          36,801         48,935          55,138         61
Capital and Reserves
Paid-in Capital                                                     50,000         50,000          50,000         50,000          50,000          50,000
Special Contribution of Dominican Government                         1,000          1,000           1,000          1,000           1,000           1,000
Reserves                                                             6 762          4 132           6,186          6 145           6 111           5 121
577 5,13b2    5 7,145,         77,              '1            11L_      56,12
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                                      iiiZs77        118t98           93,986        1o6,o80         112,249        11A806
A-ril 6, 1971



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
I-'                                                                       LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0'
H                                                                           BANKING SYSTEM AND CREDIT
'0
-.3
Agricultural Bank of the Dominican Republic
Consolidated Profit and Loss (1965 - 1969T
For Year Ending December 31
1965            1966             1967            1968             1969
--------------------------------RD$000-------------------------------
INCOME
Interest on Loans                                                                  2,544            2,533           3,135            3,355           3,505
Miscellaneous (Commissions, etc.)                                                     92              104           1,169              381              185
Income from Sale and Rental of Property                                               22               56              66               39               29
Interest on Government and Other Bonds l                                              -                -            8,794            2,281           1,619
Income from Special Agricultural Projects                                             13               11             133                9             391
TOTAL INCOME                 2,671            2,704          13,297            6,065            5,729
EXPENSES
Salaries                                                                           3,002           2,770            2,882            2,838           2,979
General Expenses                                                                     913           1,071            1,073              911             995
Expenses of Special Projects                                                         135              278             444              263               -
Financial Expenses:
Interest on Outstanding Bonds                                                      465              410             404              326             247
Interest on Short Term Loans                                                        57              217             249              283             346
Interest on IDB Loan                                                               129              159             198              218             323
Interest on AID Loan                                                                16               16              36              107             211
Other                                                                                6                5              11               20                5
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL EXPENSES                  4,723            4,92_            5,297                            5,106
PROFIT AND (LOSS)
Banking Operations Department                                                     (2,052)          (2,222)          8,ooo            1,098             623
Agricultural Commodity Stores Department                                             684           (  242)         (   65)          (    1)          ( 480)
Aviculture Operations Department                                                                       -           (  257)          ( 111)           (  70)
Agricultural Projects Department                                                      -                -                -           (27)                 -
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                 (1,368)         (2,464)           7,678              959              73
G m d y e s y I i s-                                                 - i  o
Government did not pay interest for several years.  In 1967, interest plus arrears was paid.   This is reflected in the results of 1965 to 1967.            



q
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
H                                                  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Fi
BANKING SYSTEM AND CRtEDIT
Loan Portfolio by Sector of the Banking System June 30~, 1270
Commercial Banks       Agriculture Bank        Finance Companies       Entire Banking System
Sector                      Amount                  AmounL        %        Amount          %        Amount              %
Agriculture                   9.3         5.4        53.6        85.9         _            -         62.9              23.6
Livestock                      3.7        2.2         808        11.l         -            -         12.5               .7
Indut ,,ry                   56.3        32.8         -           -           4.6          -         60.9              22.8
Building                      9           5                                  28.1          -          37.6             14.1
Other Productive Ioan;         '.8         3.)-                               -            -          5.8               2.2
Commercial                  )h1.9        21h.4              -                 -            - _4l.9                     15.7
Various                      17.h        1(.1         _     -                 -            -         17.4               6.5
Govornmont                    9.7         5.6         -           -           -            -          9.7               3.6
Other Public lihtities       18.2        10.6         -           -           -            -         18.2               6.8
171138     100).0       62.)1      100.0        32.7        100.0       266.9            100.0






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
>LIVESTCCE DFEVELOPMENT PRU ECT
Develo2pLentof                                      ,
On-Ranch Investment Prolectionsl/
Development Phasing             Total Cost
Average Units    Average Unit    Average Cost                  years                    for 100
unit         Per Ranch          Cost            Per Ranch         1          2         3            Ranches
Category
Pasture Develapment
Land Clearing                       ha               20               130            2,600            -          -       2,600             260
Land Preparation                    "                60                60           3,600           1,200     1,200      1,200            360
gstabli&&sent of Pasture                             60                 20           1,200            h00       1hOD       400             120
Renovation of Pasture               "                80                45_          3,600           1,800     1,800        -              360
Sub-total                                                                           11,000          3,hoO     3,hOO      L,200          1,100
Installations
Well (Bore and Casing)              No                0.33          3,000            1,0o0          1,000        -         -               100
Water Troughs                        "                5               130              650            425        225       -                65
Construction of Nes Fences          Em,              10               000            4,000          2,000      1,200       800             400
Repair of Emisting Fences                            15                80            1,200            800        400       -              120
Corrals                             No                0.33          3,150            1,050            -       1,050        -              105
Dipping Bath                                             _           12060                            60                                    6
Sub-total                            -                - _                            8,608 54825               2,87_       0o0 8o0
Machinery and Equipment
Cattle Scales                       No                0.33          1,050              350            350                  -                35
Tractor (65 hp), Plough, and
Harrow                            "                 0.20          8,000           1,600           1,600        -         -              160
Trailer                                               0.20          1,600              320            320        -         -               32
Rotary Forage Cutter                                  0.20          1,250              250            250        -         -                25
Fertilizer Spreader                  "                0.20            900              180            180        -         -               18
Pump and Piping                                        .33          200O       O       800                       -         - a0
Sub-total                            _-                                 -            3,500          3,5  O-                               350
Cattle
Helfers in-calf 2-3 years                            30               180            5,hO           5,4oo        -         -50
Bulls                                                 8               575            4,600          2,876      1,726       -               L 60
Sub-total                            _                -                 _           10,000          8,275      1,725       -             1,000
Grand Total                          -                -      _                      33,000         20,000      8,000     5,000           3,300
I/  Figures have been roanded.
2/ Includes a contingency allowance of abust 10 percent.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEV3LCPMENT PROJECT
r                                                             D:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uvelopment of 4(5) hs Eoef Broedioo/Faitenlng Bsnch, tAstoro Region
-Ierd Developeent Projections
Unit Irrie                   Before                                         End of Year
Unit        U-S yr-         6 yronnardo         Dev-lo.o-ent      1          2           3           4          5           6           7           8_i2
HERD COMPOSITION
Breeding Cooo                               No.           160                220                111          i29       168         174         181         t85        115         165           lb5
Veifers 2-3 yrs_                                          155                I9g                 34           64        34          41          39          35         35          35            35
Total Breeding FemAle:                                  -                  -                 145          193       202         215        220         220         220         220           220
RoES.                                                     450                500                  5            8         B           a           B           8          8           8             8
Cslveg                                       "             55                 65                (721)        (87)     (125)       (131)       (150)       (165)      (165)       (165)         (165)
Heifer-  1-2 yro.                                         110                140                 35           35        42          61          64          74         80          80            80
Ste-re  1-2 yr.                                           100                110                 35           35        43          62          65          74         81          81            81
SteerA 2-3 yro.                                           155                170                 34           34        34          42          61          64         73          79            79
FTtteoing CTll Co,-                                       120                130                 28           12        19          24          30          31         31          31            31
rotal Noeber-                                           -                  -                 354          404       473         543         598        636         658         664           664
S0b-Tot   Aniom   UelitA                A.U.J.          -                  -                 282          317       348         412         448        471         493         499           499
Tur-hased Steer:                         No.                              -                  40           85        90          70          70          90         80          75            75
Total Arieal U,neto                    A0U.             -                  -                 322          402       438         482         518        561         573         574           574
MORTALITY
Bree-ding Femsie                            No.                                                   6            4         6           4           4           4          4           4             4
Calve                                                                                             2            2         2           2           2           2          4           4             4
Heifers 1-2 yrs.                                                                                  1              1           1       1           1           1          1           2             2
Stoe r: l_2yro.                                                                                   I            1         1           1           1           1          1           2             2
SBb-Tot.1                                                                                     10            8        10           8           8           8         10          12            12
P rchse4i Steers                                                                               2            3         3           1           1           2          2           1             1
Total                                                                                         12           11        13           9           9          10         12          13            13
PUIDCHASES
lleiferA 2-3 yrs.                                         180                 -                  -            30
00al                                         ,,           450                500                  1            5          3         -            2           2          2           2             2
Sob-otalt                                                                                      1           35         3          -            2           2          2           2             2
St-rs                                                   g0                100                 40           85        90          70          70          90         80          75            75
Total                                                                                         14          120        93          70          72          92         82          77            77
SALES
C,ll C...g I/120                                                             130                 28           28        12          19          24          30          31         31            31
Co0l1C?e                                     .            450                50                   U1           2          3         -            2           2          2           2             2
HZ ifrs 1-2 yro.                                          110                140                 -            -          -          -           21          28          38         43            43
Steera 2-3 yr-. /                                         155                170                 34           34        34          34          42          61         64          73            79
Sob-Total                                               -                  -                  63           64        49          53          89         121        135         149           155
P-rcha-ed Ste r                                       145                 195                 38           82        87          69          69          88         78          74            74
Total                                                   -                  -                 001          146       136         122         158        209         213         223           229
TECUNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Effectiv  Calving Rate                        .            -                  -                  50           60        65          65          70          75          75         75            75
Mortalit Pste R                                            _                  _                   4            3          3          2           2           V           2           2            2
CTO  Cllling Hate                            e             -                  -                  2S            8        10          12          14          14         14          14            14        m
Extraction Rate                              .             -                  -                17.0         15.8      00.4         9.8        14.9        19.0       20.5        22.4          23.3        , I
Stocking Rate                              A.U./ho         -                  -                 0.0          3.0       1.1         1.2         1.3         1.4        1.4          1.4           1.4
Milk P-od-cti.On/                          1it./yr.        -                  -                 390          390       391         390         390         390         390         390          390
2/ Ab.t 0.33 peso/Ag live veight.
2  Av rage pr-ce tolodiag  -a  br .ding boll.
88Abt 0.41 P0000/kg live weight.
0.29 p so /lit.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
-t                                                                                    LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 400 ha Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, Eastern Region
Projection of Sales. 0peratlEgrErpenses, and Operating Income
Before                                                         During Year
Development        1          2          3          4          5          6          7           8          9         10       I1-12
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~----------------------------   = ~~~------ -------- P    e    s   o  s ---------------------------------------------------------
Category
SALES
Cull Cows                                3,360          3,360      1,440      2,280      2,880      3,600       4,030      4,030      4,030      4,030      4,030      4,030
Bulls                                      450            900      1,350        -          900        900      1,000       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
Heifers 1-2 yrs.                           -              -          -          -        2,310      3,080      5,320       6,020      6,020      6,020      6,020      6,020
Steers 2-3 yrs.                          5,270          5,270      5,270      5,270      6,510      9,455      10,880     12,410     13,430     13,430     13,430     13,430
Purchased Feeder Steers                  5,510         11,890     12,615     10,005     10,005,   12,760      13,260     12,580      12,580     12,580     12,58o    12,580
Total Cattle Sales                    14,590         21,420     20,675     17.555     22,605     29,795     34,490     36,040      37,060     37,060     37,060     37,060
Milk                                   5,075          5,075      6,755      7,070      7,525      7,700       7,700      7,700      7,700      7,700      7,700      7.700
Total Sales                           19,665         26,495     27,430     24,625     30,130     37,495     42,190      43,740     44,760     44,760     44,760     44,760
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages 1/                                 1,800          2,700      2,700      3,300      3,300      3,300      3,300       3,300      3,300      3,300      3,300      3,300
Brush Clearing 2/                        2,o80          1,920      1,760      1,600      1,280        960        640        320         -          -          -          -
Fertilizers 3/               -                            800        800        800      1,600      1,600      1,600       1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600
Maintenance of Fences V/                   300            400        460        500        500        500        500         500        500        500        500        500
Animal Health i/                           650          1,400      1,500      1,700      1,800      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000
Mineralized Salt and Molasses 6/           600          1,900      2,100      2,300      2,500      2,700       2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700
Fuel and Lubricants 7/                     160            200        240        240        240        240        240         240        240        240        240        240
Maintenance of MachiZery 8/                100            350        350        350        350        350        350         350        350        350        350         350
Maintenance of Installations 9/             50            100        150        170        170        170         170        170        170        170        170         170
Replacement of bulls 12/                   575            -          -          -        1,150      1,150      1,150       1,150      1,150      1,150      1,150      1,150
Sub-total                              6,315          9,770     10,010     10,960     12,890     12,970      12,650     12,330     12,010     12,010     12,010      12,010
Feeder Steers 11/                      3,600          7,650      8,100      6,300      6,300      8,100       8,000      7,500      7,500      7,500      7,500      7.500
Total Operating Expenses               9,915         17,420     18,110     17,260     19,190     21,070     20,650      19,830     19,510     19,510     19,510     19,510
OPERATING INCOME
Gross Operating Income 12/               9,750          9,075      9,320      7,365     10,940    16,425       21,540     23,910     25,250     25,250     25,250      25,250
Interest 13/                               496          1,591      2,633      3,059      3,336      2,271      1,836       1,530      1,195        831        433        -
Net Operating Income                   9,254          7,484      6,687      4,306      9,604     14,154      19,704.    22,380     24,o55     24,419     24,817      25,250
1/ Cowboy at 600 pesos p.a. and foreman at 900 pesos. Before development 3 cowboys, Additional foreman in year 1 and cowboy in year 3.
7/ At 8 pesos per ha of developed pasture.
3/ Mixed fertilizer (15, 15, 15) at rate of 400 lbs/ha or 16 pesos/ha. First 3 years 50 ha annually and thereafter 100 ha annually.
At rate of 5% of value annually.
At rate of 2.00 pesos per animal unit annually before development and at rate of 3.50 pesos per animal unit freiyear 1 onwards.
6/ At rate of 1.75 pesos per animal unit annually before development and at rate of 4.75 pesos per animal unit from year 1 onwards.
At rate 0.20 pesos per hr. Operated 800 hours per year before development, 1,000 hr. in year 1 and 1,200 hours/year from year 2 onwards.
o/ At rate of lO, of value annually.
2/ At rate of 5% of value annually.                                                                                                                                                            CD
10/At rate of 575 pesos each.                                                                                                                                                                 W w
1T/ At rate of 90 pesos each during first five years and 100 pesos each for year 6 orwards.
! / Total sales minus operating expenses.
U/ Interest payments on both long- and short-term debt (Annex 3 , Table 4 ).



DOINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJICT
Development of 400 ha Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, Eastern Region
Financial Proj ectionrs /
Category                      Before                                                          Duing  Year
Development      1            2           3          4          D g          6           7           0            9           10         11-12
(--- - ------ - ---------------- - ------------------------- - -------_-Pesos_--------------------------- -----------------------------------------------)
I. Cash Inflow
a) Sales
1. Cattle                      14,590        21,420      20,675      17,555      22,605      29,795      34,490      36,040       37,060       37,060      37,060      37,O6O
2. Milk                         5,075         5,075       6,755       7,070       7,525       7,700       7,700       7,700        7,700        7,700       7,700       7,700
b) Loan :
Long Term                     -          16,000       6,1400      4,000         -           -           -           -            -            -           -           -
c) Total Cash Inflow                19,665        42,495      33,830      28,625      30,130      37,495      42,190      43,740       44,760       44,760      44,760      44,760
II. Cash Outflow
a)  Investment                         -          20,000       8,000       5,000         -           -           -            -           -            -           -           -
b)  Operating Expenses               9,915        17,420      18,110      17,260      19,190      21,070      20,650      19.830       19,510       19,510      19,510      19,510
c) Total Cash Outflow                9,915        37,420      26,110      22,260      19,190      21,070      20,650      19,830       19,510       19,510      19,510      19,510
III. Annual Cash Balance before
Service Charges                      9,750         5,075       7,720       6,365      10,940      16,425      21,540      23,910       25,250       25,250      25,250      25,250
IV. Service Charges
a) Development Loan
1.  Interest                       _             720       1,728       2,196       2,376       2,118       1,836       1,530        1,195          831         433
2. Amortization                    -             -           -           -         2,869       3,127       3,409       3,715        4,050        4,414       4,812
b) Working Capital Interest            496           871         905         863         960       1,053         -            -           -            -           -
c) Total Debt Service                  496         1,591       2,633       3,059       6,205       6,298       5,245       5,245        5,245        5,245       5,245         -
V. Annual Cash Balance after
Service Charges                      9,254         3,484       5,087       3,306       4,735      10,127      16,295      18,665       20,005       20,005      20,005      25,250
VI. Incremental Cash Balance after
Service Charges                        -          (5,770)     (4,167)     (5,948)      (4,519)        873      7,041        9,411      10,751       10,751      10,751      15,996
/ Negative figures between parenthesis.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
*1                                                                                 LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENZNT PROJECT
-                                                          Development of 100 ha Dairy/Beef Fattening Ranch, Northern Region and Cibao
On-Ranch Investment FPzmjections /
Development Phasing
Average               Average          Average Cost                   Year                      Total Cost
Unit          Units Per Ranch         Unit Cost            Per Ranch          1          2           3          for 120 Ranches
Category                                                                                                                   Pesos----                                      US$'ooo
Pasture Development
Land Clearing                                         ha                             -                             -               -           -          -                -
Land Preparation                                                        20                     60                1,200            600         300        300              1414
Establishment of Pasture                                                20                     20                   400           200         100        100              148
Renovation of Pasture                                                   50                     45                2,250          1,200         550        50O             270
Sub-Total                                             _-                                        -                3,850          2,000         950        goo             462
Installations
Well (Bore and Casing)                                No.             0.33                  2,700                   goo           900          -          -              108
Water Troughs                                         116                                     125                   750           500         250         -                90
Construction of New Fences                            Xm.                5                    1400                2,000         1,200         800         -              24o
Repair of Existing Fences                              "                 7                     80                   550           550          -          -                66
Farm Buildings 2/                                               -                           3,500                 3,500         3,500          -          -               420
Sub-Total                                              _                                        -                7,700          6,650      1,050          -              924
Machinery and Equipment
Tractor (45 hp) Plough and Harrow                     No.             0.25                  6,ooo                 1,500         1,500          -          -               180
Trailer                                                               0.25                  1,600                   400           400          -          -                48
Rotary Forage Cutter                                                  0.25                  1,200                   300           300          -          -                36
Fertilizer Spreader                                                   0.33                    900                   300           300          -          -                36
Cattle Spraying Equipment                                             0.50                    500                   250           250          -          -                30
Pump and Piping                                                       0.33                  2,1400                  800           800          -          -               96
Milk Cooling Tank                                                     0.25                  2,800                   700           700          -          -                84
Sub-Total                                                               -                     -                   4,250         4,250          -          -               510
Cattle
Heifers ih-calf 2-3 years                                                20                   400                 8,000         6,ooo       2,000         -               960
N3ulls                                                                    2                   600                 1,200           600          -         600              144
Sub-Total                                                                 -                     -                 9,200         6,600       2,000        600            1,104
Grand Total                                                               -                     -                25,000        19,500       4,ooo      1,500            3,000
F/ igures have been rasuded.
includes a contingency allowance of about 10 percent.
2/ Cattle shed, yards and trench silo.



DOMIUNICAN BXPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNT PROJUtT
De"e1neet of 100 Ob DNry/BeCf Fattening  R-nch, Northern Rnginn Ind CiUb4
Berd LevenloFent Pmi-ctionn
Unit Pric-                     Before                                          End of Ye-
Unlt        0-Tons.          6 y o       d        Deoe1o-e- t       1          2           3           4          .er_         6           7           8.12
____  -__e_m------_
category
HKRZ COMPOSITI05
Breeding Coon                              No.           220                 330                 40           43         58          61          61          64          64          64            64
Heifer-  2-3 yrs.                            "           180                 300                 10           25         15          12          17          16          16          16            16
Total  reeding FO lnl                                  -                   -                  50           68        73           73          78         80          80           80            80
Onils                                       "            450                 750                  2            2          2 2         2                       2           2           2             2
Celves                                       "            65                 100                (25)         (28)       (41)        (53)        (55)        (62)        (64)        (64)          (64)
Heifern 1-2 ys."                                          130                200                 11           11         13          19          25          26          30          31            31
Steers 1-2  -rs.                                           95                110                 12           12         14          20          25          27          31          32            32
Steero 2-3 yrs.                                          135                 145                 11           11         11          13          19          24          26          30            31
Fettening CoIl 7o-.,                                      110                120                  7            4          7           9          10          12          14          14            14
TOotL Nmber-                                           -                   - _118                         136       161         189         214          233        247         253            254
Sbi-7ootl Ainiml Units                  A.U.           -                   _                 93          1Z8        120         136         159         171         183         189            190
F r -nd St-Seers                        32             -                   -                  10           10        20          25           10          10          -           -             -
Total Ar.inl IUJit                      A.7.           -                   _                103          1n8        140         161         169          181        183         189            190
MORTALITY
-reeding lenoLes                           No.                                                    3            3          3           3           2           2           2           2             2
07.oea                                                                                            2           2           1           2           3           2           1           1             1
Heif-rs 1-2 ys.                                                                                  1           1          1                                               1 3  0  1   1
6te-r_ 1-2 y-s.                                                                                   1           1           1           1           1           1           1           1            0
200-Corol                                                                                     7            7          6            7           7          6           5            5             5
OoonnSte.r.                                                                             1I                                                          --. 
Iotal                                                                                          0           8          7            0           7          6           9           5              5
0URCHASES
Heifers 2-3 yro.                                                                                 -            15          5
311On                                                                                            -            I          -           3           1          -           -           i
2nl_ToOn1                                                                                    - _          16          5            1           0          -           _          1
6teers                                                 80                  90                10           10         20          25          10          10
3.Rl  10     26        25           26          11          10          _            1             1
col*- zors lj                                '           2110                120                  7            7                                  9          10          12          14            14
Bolin                         "           ~~~~~~~~~                                      ~     ~~200  22-1
fnifer-  1-2  Ir5.                                       130                 200                                                                  1          -           -            I             I
Steers 2-3 yrs. 2/                                       135                165                33           11         11           1          13           19          249         26            3
OU..b'otnl                                             _0 18                                              19         15          19          24,         37          45          54            5Y
IO,-oinoooSteerg                         "            130                 140                 9            9         19          24          10          10           -           ,
nolo                                     0                                                   27           28         34          43          34          47          45          54            59
TECHNICAI COBEFFCIRNTS
Yiforte velnlviog  Ondt i                                                                        50           55        60           70          75          80          80          80            80
rorin      nO R6                                                                                               6          5           4           3           2           2           2             2
20 tlti-g Rnte                                                                                 a10                     I           12           16          16         18           10            10
Ont-koivo OnSo                                                                                15.2         16.0         9.3       10.2        11.2         15.9       18.2        21.3           73.0
0000618g Onto  A.0'./1n                                             1.0          ~~~~      ~~~~       ~ ~~ ~           ~~~1.2  3.4  .  1.7  1.0  1.0    1.2           1.8
0010 yrodooiucnno                          L;t./yr.                                          1,11500      1,200      1,9l0       1,407        1,500       1,600      1,700        1,700         1,700
A/ Ob-at 0.33 pe-e-./g live Wight.
L/ Ahb.t 0.41 peeneAg Uie teeight.
2/ 0.09 pe..e/lit.
Anril 6, 1971



0                                                                                            DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 100 ha Dairy/Beef Fattening Ranch. Northern Region and Cibao
Projection of Sales, Operating Expenses, and Operating Income
Before                                                                 Dur7ng Ye1r
Development          1          2           3          4                        Yr       7           8          9          10           11-1
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -
Category                                                                                                                  SALES
Cull Cows                                         770             770         440        770        990        1,100      1,320       1,680      1,680      1,680        1,680        1,680
Bulls                                              -              200          _         200        200          -          -           220        220        220          220          220
Heifere 1-2 yr-.                                   -                -          -          -         130        1,040      1,170       2,600      2,800      2,800        2,800        2,800
Steers 2-3 yrs.                                 1,485           1,485       1,485      1,485      1,755       2,565       3,480       3,770      4,350      4,350        4,350        4,350
Purchased Feeder Steers                         1,170           1,170       2,470      3,120      1,300        1,300        -           -          -          -            -            -
Total Cattle Sales                           3,425           3,625       4,395      5,575      4,375       6,oo5       5,970       8,270      9,050      9,050        9,050        9,050
Milk                                         4,950           5,400       7,956      9,198      9,855      10,512      12,240      12,240     12,240     12,240       12,240       12,240
Total Sales                                  8,375           9,025      12,351     14,773     14,230      16,517      18,210     20,510      21,290     21,290      21,290        21,290
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages 1/                                        2,000           2,000       2,000      2,550      2,550        2,550      2,550       2,550      2,550      2,550        2,550        2,550
Brush Clearing  /                                 40°             320         160         80        -            -          -           -          -          -            -            -
Fertilizers 3/                                     -              320         320        320        640          640        640         640        640        640          640          640
Maintenance of Fences 4/                          140             200         240        p4o        240          240        240         240        240        240          240          240
Animal Health 2/                                  230             530         630        725        765          815        825         855        855        855          855          855
Mineralized Salt and Molasses  /                  206             590         700        805        845          905        915         945        950        950          950          950
Fuel and Lubricants I/                             85             100         120        120        120          120        120         120        120        120          120          120
Maintenance of Machinery 8/                       100             425         425        425         425         425        425         425        425        425          425          425
Maintenance of Installations 9/                    50             170         185        185        185          185        185         185        185        185          185          185
Replacement of Bulls                               -                -          -          -         600          -          -           600        600        600          600          600
Sub-Total                                    3,211           4,655      4,780       5,450      6,370       5,880       5,900      6,560       6,565      6,565       6,565         6,565
Feeder Steers L/                               800             800       1,600      2,000        800          800              -                -          -            -            -
Total Operating Expenses                     4,011           5,455       6,380      7,450      7,170        6,680      5,900      6,560       6,565      6,565        6,565        6,565
OPERATING INCOME
Gross Operating Income L/                       4,364           3,570       5,971      7,323      7,060        9,837     12, 310     13,950     14,725     14,725       14,725       14,725
Interest 1                                        2 0             975       1,863      2,118      2,158        1,938      1,390       1,157        903        806          340
Net Operating Income                            4,159            2,59.      4,10o      5,5         4,902       7,99                  12,793     13,022     13,919       14,305       14,725
1/  General hand at 550 pesos p.a. and forman at 900 pesos.
2/ At 8 pesos per ha.
Mixed fertilizer (15, 15, 15) at rate of 400 lbs./ha or 16 pesos. First three years 20 ha annually and 40 ha annually thereafter.
At about 51 of value annually.
5/ At rate of 2.25 pesos per animal unit before development and 4.50 pesos per animal unit from year 1 onwards.
6/ At rate of 2.00 pesos per animal unit before development and 5.00 pesos per animal unit from year 1 onwards.
:/  At rate of 0.17 pesos per hour.  Operated 500 hr before development, 600 hr during year L and 700 hr from year 2 onwards.
At rate of 10  of value annually
9/ At rate of 5, of value annually                                                                                                                                                              - w
/  At rate of 80 pesos per animal.
/ Total sales minus operating expenses.
Interest payments on both long- and short-term  debt (Annex 3, Table 8)



DOMINICAN REP[IBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 100 hAi Dairy/Beef Fattening Ranch, Northern Region and Cibao
Financial Projections j/
Before                                                             Year
Develop-       1             2             3          4           5           6            7             8           9          10         11-12
ment
(----------------------------------------------------------------- (Pesos) -------------------------------------------------------------------------
I.    Cash Inflow
a).  Sales
1.  Cattle Sales                 3,425          3,625       4,395       5,575       4,375       6,005        5,970       8,270        9,050        9,050        9,050        9,050
2. Milk Sales                    4,950          5,400       7,956       9,198        9,855     10,512       12,240       12,240      12,240       12,240       12,240       12,240
b). Loan :
Long Term                      -          15,600        3,200       1,200          -          -            -            -           -                   -           -
c).  Total Cash Inflow                8,375        24,625       15,551      15,973       14,230     16,517       18,210       20,510      21,290       21,290       21,290       21,290
II.   Cash Outflow
a).  Investment                         -           19,500       4,ooo       1,500          -          -            -            -           -                   -            -
b).  Operating Expenses               4,011          5,455       6,380        7,450       7,170      6,680        5,900        6,560       6,560         6,560       6,560        6,560
c).  Total Cash Outflow               4,011         24,955      10,380       8,950        7,170      6,680        5,900        6,560       6,560        6,560        6,560        6,560
III.  Annual Cash Balance before
Service Charges                       4,364           (330)      5,171       7,023        7,o60      9,837       12,310       13,950      14,730       14,730       14,730       14,730
IV.   Service Charges
a).  Development Loan
1.  Interest                       _              702       1,548       1,746        1,800      1,604        1,390        1,157         903          806          340
2. Amortization                    -              -           -           -          2,180      2,376        2,590        2,823       3,077        3,174        3,640
b).  Working Capital
Interest                       200           273          319         372          358        334          -            -           -            -            -
c).  Total Debt Service                 200            975       1,867       2,118        4,338      4,314        3,980        3,980       3,980        3,980        3,980
V.   Annual Cash Balance after
Service Charges                       4,164          (10305)     3,30h        4,905       2,722      5,523        8,330        9,970      10,750        10,750      10,750       14,730
VI.   Incremental Cash Balance
after Service Charges                    -           (5,469)      (860)        741       (1,442)     1,359        4,166        5,806       6,586         6,586       6,586       10,566
N/ Negative figures appear between parenthesis.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 250 ha Beef/Dairy Ranch, Northern Region
-                                                                                  On-Ranch Investment Projections!/
Development Phasing
Average                Average             Average Cost                   Year                    Total Cost
Unit          Units Per Ranch           Unit Costg/            Per Ranch      s               2         3          for          s
----------------Pesos -------------   - 
Category
Pasture Development
Land Clearing                                          ha                10                      130                  1,300              -         350       950             52.0
Land Preparation                                       "                 50                       60                  3,000            1,500      750        750            120.0
Establishment of Pasture                                                 50                       20                  1,000              500      250        250             40.0
Renovation of Pasture                                  "                 50                       45                  2,250            1,120    1,130         -              90.0
Sub-Total                                              -I                                         -                   7,550            3,120    2,480      1,950            302.0
Installations
Well (Bore and Casing)                                 No.             0.33                    2,400                    800              800        -         -              32.0
Water Troughs                                                             5                      500                  2, >00           1,500    1,000         -             100.0
Construction of New Fences                             km                 5                      400                  2,000            1,200       400       4oo             80.0
Repair of Existing Fences                              "                 12                       80                    960              640       320        -              38.4
Corrals                                                No.             0.33                    2,700                    900               -        900        -              36.o
Dipping Bath                                                           0.5                     1,200                    600              600        -         -              24.0
Sub-Total-                                                               -                        -                   7,760            4,740    2,620        400            310.4
Machinery and Eqguipment
Cattle Scales                                          No.             0.33                    1,050                    350              350        -         -              14.0
Tractor (65 hp) Plough and liarrow                                     0.20                    8,575                  1,715            1,715                  -              68.6
Trailer                                                                0.20                    1,000                    320              320        -         -              12.8
Rotary Forage Cutter                                                   0.20                    1,250                    250              250        -         -              10.0
Fertilizer Spreader                                                    0.20                      900                    180              180        -         -               7.2
Pump and Piping                                                        0.33                    2,400                    800              800        -         -              32.0
Sub-Total                                                               -                                             3,615            3,615        _         -             1144.6
Cattle
Heifers imcalf 2-3 years                                                  30                      190                 5,700            3,800    1,900         -             228.0
Bulls                                                                      5                      575                 2,875            1,725        -      1,150            115.0
Sub-Total                                                                 -                        -                  8,575            5,525    1,900      1,150            343.0
Grand Total                                                                                                          27,500           17,000    7,000      3,500           1100.0
/ Figares have been rounded.
g/ Includes a contingency allowance of about 10 percent.



||ES~~~~~~~~~~~~C   CCC   CSC   CC    0                          0  k D Co    CC                CC( N OCCCC   -  H  u                 Ct  _-Ct  CC          *         el EI1' Cu NCCC Cn C1  1CN  \
E~~~~~~~~~C  | C  H                                                                                                                                       C   LNmtlt>      0I   N  |O O- .. 
F~~~~   DOOOt     C-u                     
E~~~~C U    COCCCCC-  CC               0   N       u         -COOC    CC t         CC       CD CO  -           C- 01    -CCC-t  Cu            0   I      CC C>CCNCO 2          sS.   
3   C-              |k  I    R C °CCCCCCN O>CC N  CF  0  I H                                                                CC (CCC> H  N C 0 u CC -C>N P O
E~~~~~~~~                                  C> Ot             -C                                                                             H     lA X9 N N O < S         |°IC X g >|01< r        0X0C
|4~ ~  ~ ~       ~ ~~-C                                                                                                                                                         H  h| 0 0 u                 FNHH0 N  HOea O 00NH t 0              l~C
r~ ~ ~~    ~ ~~~~~~C                CHCCC CC®  CC   CCC    0 |C °O   -1                                                                Cu  Cu-  CC   CuHN  f         NHH0 H mII I    1 0  Cu  2 0 H*   C°
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H
HCf  CC      C> C>-DuC                   CC                                                         -CC                            C          -  CC -
CC  rC  0    C>CCC-CC   CC        H          CC        -OO, C          C                C.C              >         CC  C    C      C- CC           C$CC



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVERTOCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
v                                                                        lbevelopment of 250 ha Beef/Dairy Ranch, Ncrthern Region
Projection of Sales, Operating Expenses and, Doerating Income
H
Before                                                     During Year
Devepment        1          2           3 __                  5          6           7          8           9          10       11-12
Category
SALES
Cull Cows                                1,980         1,980        880      1,430      1,870       2,420      2,640       3,240      3X240      3,240       3,240      3,240
Bulls                                      -             400        -          200         200        200        200         220        220        220         220        220
Heifers 1-2 years                           110          110        110        220         220        440      2,530       4,4Bo      5,440       5,440      5,440      5,440
Steers 2-3 years                          3,450        3,450      3,450      3,450       4,200      6,ooo      7,350       8,640      9,440       9,440      9,440      9,440
Purchased Feeder Steers                  14,o60        8,120     10,920     12,180       9,660      4,o60      1,400         -          -          -           -          -
Total Cattle Sales                      9,600       14,060     15,360     17,480     16,150      13,120     14,120     16,580      18,340     18,340      18,340     18,340
Milk                                    7,695        7,695      9,945     11,092     11,475      12,393     13,770      15,390     15,390     15,390      15,390     15,390
Total Sales                           17,295        21,755     25,305     28,572     27,625      25,513     27,890     31,970      33,730     33,730      33,730     33,730
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages 1/                                  1,200        2,100      2,100      2,700       2,700      2,700      2,700       2,700      2,700       2,700      2,700      2,700
Brush Clearing 2/                         1,120          960        800        640         480        320        160         -          -           -          -          -
Fertilizers I/                              -            480        48o         480        960        960         960        960        960         960        960        960
Maintenance of Fences 4/                    240          300        320         340        340        340         340        340        340         340        340        340
Animal Health 5/                            444          955      1,130      1,300       1,1400     1,400      1,400       1,400      1,400       1,400      1,400      1,400
Mineralized Salt and Molasses 6/            400        1,300      1,500      1,800       1,900      1,900      1,900       1,900      1,900       1,900      1,900      1,900
Fuel and Lubricants 7/                      100          120        150        180         180        180        180         180        180         180        180        180
Maintenance of Machinery 8/                 100          350        350         350        350        350        350         350        350         350        350        350
Maintenance of Installations 9/              50          150        240         240        240        240         240        240        240         240        240         240
Replacement of Bulls 1-0/                   -            -          -          -           575      1,150        575         575        575        575         575        575
Sub-total                               3,645        6,715      7,070      8,030       9,125      9,540      8,805       8,645      8,645       8,645      8,645      8,645
Feeder Steers 11/                       2,700        5,400      7,200      8,100       6,300      2,700        900         -          -          -           -          -
Total Operating Expenses               6,299        12,115     14,270     16,130     15,425      12,240      9,705       8,645      8,645      8,645       8,645      8,645
OPERATING INCOME
Gross Operating Income 12/              10,996         9,640     11,035      12,442    12,200      13,273     18,185      23,325     25,085      25,085     25,085     25,085
Interest 13/                                315        1,218      2,189      2,661       2,751      2,376      1,529       1,273        993        688         356        -
Net Operating Income                  10,681         8,422      8,8L6      9,781      9,449      10,897     16,656     22,052      24,092     24,397      24,729     25,085
1/ Cowboy at 600 pesos p.a. and foreman at 900 pesos. Before development two cowboys. Additional foremen in year 1 and cowboy in year 3.
7/ At 8.00 pesos/ha of developed pasture.
;/ Mixed fertilizer (15, 15, 15) at rate of 400 lbs/ha or 16 pesos/ha. First 3 years 30 ha annually and 60 ha annually thereafter.
i At rate of 5% of value annually.
At rate of 2.00 pesos/animal unit before development and at rate of 3.50 pesos per animal unit from year 1 orwards.
/ At rate of 1.75 pesos/animal unit before development and at rate of 4.75 pesos per animal unit frcm year 1 orwards.
7/ At rate of 0.20 pesos/hour.  Operated 600 hour per year before development, 750 hour during year 1 and 900 hour from year 2a onwards.
'9/ At rate of 10,; of value annually.                                                                                                                                                1> 
7/ At rate of 5l% of value annually.
10/At rate 575 pesos each.
11/At 90.00 pesos each.
17/Total sales misnus operating expenses.
II/Interest payments on both long- and short-term debt (Annex 3, Tablel;2).



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
411                                                                                   LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of 250 ha Beef/Dairy Ranch, Northern Region
Financial Projections L/
Before                                                          During Year
Develop-        1             2             3          4             5            6            7            8           9           10          11-12
ment
(s-------------------------------------------------------- (Pesos) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------( )
I.   Cash Inflow
a.  Sales:
1.  Cattle Sales                 9,600         14,060         15,360      17,480      16,150        13,120      14,120       16,580       18,340       18,340       18,340       18,340
2.  Milk Sales                   7,695          7,695          9,945       11,092     11,475        12,393       13,770      15,390       15,390       15,390       15,390       15,390
b. Loan
Long-tensb                     -           13,600          5,600       2,800         -             -            -           -            -
c. Total Cash Inflow                17,295         35,355         30,905       31,372     27,625        25,513       27,890      31,970       33,730       33,730       33,730       33,730
II.  Cash Outflow
a.  Investment                          -          17,000          7,000        3,500               -            -            -            -            -            -                  -
b.  Operating Expenses               6,299         12,115         14,270       16,130     15,425        12,240        9,705        8,645       8,645        8,645        8,645        8,645
c.  Tot       Cash Outflow           6,299         29,115         21,270      19,630      15,425        12,240        9,705       8,645        8,645        8,645        8,645        8,645
III. Annual Cash Balance before
Service Charges                     10,996          6,240          9,635       11,742     12,200        13,273       18,185      23,325       25,085       25,085       25,085       25,085
IV.  Service Charges
a. Development Loan
1.  Interest                        -             612          1,476        1,854      1,980         1,764        1,529       1,273          993          688          356          -
2. Asartization                     -             -              -            -        2,398         2,614        2,849       3,105        3,385        3,690        4,022
b. Working Capital
Interest                       315            606            713         807         771           612          -           -            -            -            -
c.  Total Debt Service                  315         1,218          2,189        2,661      5,149         4,990        4,378        4,378       4,378        4,378        4,378          -
V.   Annual Cash Balance after
Service Charges                       10,681        5,022          7,446        9,081      7,051         8,283       13,807       18,947      20,707       20,707       20,707       25,085
VI. Incremental Cash Balance
after Service Charges                   -          (5,659)        (3,235)      (1,600)    (3,630)       (2,398)       3,126        8,266       lO,O26      10,026       10,026       14,404
N Negative figures are between parenthesis.                                                                                                                                                              r ,



ANNE 4
DOlINICAN REPUBLIC
UIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                      1/ 2/
Project Cost By Major Investment Categories And Foreign Exchange Component - -
CATEGORY               Local      Foreign      Total     % of Total    % or Foreign
(---  ---       '0o0o0-----         Cost           Exchange
ON-TbiqCH INVESVMENT
Pasture Development
Land Clearing              203        109         312          3               35
Land Preparation           393        231         624          7               37
Establishment of
Pasture                    94         114        208                          55
Renovation of Pasture      360        360         720           8              50
Sub-Total             1,050        814       1,864         21               44
Installations
Wiell (bore and casing)    144         96         240           3              40
'dater troughs             229          26        255           3               10
Construction oi new        504         216        720           8               0
fences
Repair of Existing         168         56         224           2              z5
fences
Corrals                    113          28        141           a              z0
Dipping Bath                67          1T         84           1               z0
Farm Buildings             344         76         420           5                8
Sub-Total            1,569        51b       2,084         2.               25
Machinery and Eauipment
Cattle Scales               15         34          49           1               70
Tractor and Attachments   12.         286         409           5              70
Trailer                     32         61          9,5          1              66
Rotary Forage Cutter        21         50          71                          70
Fertilizer Spreader         18         4           61           1              70
Cattle Spraying Equip-       9          21         30           -              70
ment
Pump and Piping             62         146        208           2               70
Milk Cooling Tank           25          59         84           1               70
Sub-Total             305         700       1,005         11               70
Cattle
Heifers in Calf 2-3
years                  1,557         171      1,728          19               10
Bulls                      719           -        709           8                -
gub-Total            2,Z76        17i       2,447         27                7
Total On-Ranch Investment   5,200        2,200      74±00          82               30
TECHNICAL SItVICES                  250        200        450           5               44
PROJECT C0ST                 5,450       2,400      7,850          87               31
Nv0RKING CAPITAL                 1,150          -       1,150          1                 -
TOTAL                    6,600      2,400       9,000         100               27
1/ The Peso, Dominican Republic's currenuy is at par with the US dollar.
2/ Figures are rounded and do not include IDA's service charges during the development period.
3/ See Annex 5.
4/ Estimated average annual incremental working capital requirement of the Project during the
disbursement period.
April 6, 1971






ANNEX 5
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Management and Technical Services
Cost Projections
Project Year
Expenditure Items                 1         2        3        4__                Tutal
-   -----------Pesos  '000-------------
Vehicles                          7         3        3                  -           13
Researchi/                        5        15       20        -         _          40
Other Investments?/               6         -        -         -        -            6
Contingency                       2         2        2        -         -           6
Sub-Total                20       20        25        -         -          65
Operating Expenses
Project Director%"               35       35        35        -         -         105
Project Coordinator              10        10       10        14       14           58
Professional Staff                8        14       21       21        21           85
Secretary                         3         3        3        3         3           15
Bonuses4                          2         2        3        4         4          15
Consultants Fees_/                -        25        -        -         -          25
Per Diems                         3         5        6         7        7           28
Gasoline and Other Expenses       2         3        4        4         4          17
Training Fellowships              4         5        4         -        -           13
General Overhead                  2         4        6        6         6           24
Sub-Total                69      1o6        92       59       59          385
Total                    89      126       117       59        59         450
1/ Provisions for field trials on pasture implantation and management.
2/ Office furniture and equipment.
3/ Cost estimates on the basis of a foreign Project Director for three years and
includes salary, gratuity, international travel, and family housing allowance.
Thereafter, the Project Coordinator would assume these responsibilities.
4/ Christmas bonus; about 10% of local salaries.
I/ About 5 man-months for milk marketing survey.
April 6, 1971






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION  CHART
CENTRAL  BANK
I
L   DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS (DIA)
LIVESTOCK ASSISTANT TO                      ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT FUND (FIDE)
LIVESTOCK PROJECT DIVISION
PROJECT DIRECTOR
REGIONAL TECNCA                                                    |REGIONAL TECHNICIANS
(EAST)                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(NORTH COAST AND CIBAO) 
TECHNICAL STAFF PARTICIPATING BANKS
PARTICIPATING RANCHERS AND FARMERS                                                                > >
I-1 x
IBRD - 5319(3R)






ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Duties, Responsibilities and Authority of the Project Director
1.        The Project Director would be responsible for:
(i) handling the technical aspects of ranch development under
the Project in accordance with the recommendations of the
Livestock Assistant to DIA Director, inter alia ensuring
that DIA and Participating Banks' technicians visit Project
Ranchers at regular intervals to extend technical assistance;
(ii)  presenting Investment Plans and loan applications approved
by the Livestock Assistant to DIA Director to the appropri-
ate authorities within the Banco Central;
(iii)  carrying out a program for the local and overseas training
of technicians employed by DIA and participating banks in
accordance to the recommendations of the Livestock Assistant
to DIA Director;
(iv)  carrying out the pasture field trials of the Project in ac-
cordance with the recommendations of the Livestock Assistant
to DIA Director;
(v) technically cooperating with the Directorate General of
Livestock of the Borrower's Secretariat of Agriculture to
ensure that all cattle under the Project are dipped or
sprayed as required against external parasites, drenched
against external worms and vaccinated against brucellosis,
black leg, hemorrhagic septicemia and hemoglobinuria;
(vi)  preparing jointly with the Livestock Assistant to DIA Direc-
tor quarterly and annual progress reports for submission to
the Association and DIA;
(vii)  assuring the Project ranchers will keep a system of records
in accordance with the recommendations of the Livestock As-
sistant to DIA Director;
(viii)  establishing and maintaining records of sample ranches as
needed for Project evaluation in accordance with the recom-
mendations of the Livestock Assistant to DIA Director; and
(ix)  three years after the Effective Date, taking over the author-
ity and responsibilities of the Livestock Assistant to DIA
Director.






ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Duties, Responsibilities and Authority
of the Livestock Assistant to DIA Director
1.        The Livestock Assistant to DIA Director would have the necessary
authority, and would be responsible for:
(i) recommending field technicians to be employed in the Project
by DIA, and their duty stations;
(ii)  evaluating the qualifications of field technicians employed
in the Project by Participating Banks, recommending their
replacement when necessary and the appointment of new ones;
(iii) recommending a program for the local and overseas training
of technicians employed by DIA and Participating Banks. This
would include periodically accompanying all technicians on
appraisal or supervision visits to ranches; and approving all
training fellowships under the Project;
(iv)  recommending on the performance of field technicians employed
in the Project by DIA and Participating Banks and on their
acceptability for such employment;
(v) approving the technical feasibility and financial viability
of all Investment Plans before presentation thereof to DIA's
appropriate authorities within the Banco Central;
(vi)  visiting Project-financed ranches at intervals to determine
progress;
(vii) developing a simple and adequate system for the keeping of
records on Project-financed ranches;
(viii) notifying DIA and Participating Banks of problems in connec-
tion with Project's Ranch Development Loans and suggesting
remedial action;
(ix)  proposing pasture field trials under the Project and approving
the carrying out of such trials before any funds are allocated
therefor;
(x) cooperating with the Project Director in the preparation of
quarterly and annual progress reports for submission to the
Association and DIA, and co-signing them with him;



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
(xi) recommending the establishment and maintenance of records
of sample ranches as needed for Project performance evalua-
tion; and
(xii)  guiding DIA staff in preparation of a second livestock devel-
opment project.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Sources and Application of Funds - FIDE's Development Credit Account
1         2         3         4         5          6         7         8          9         10          11         12          13         14          15
------------------------------------------------------------- RD$ '000 -----------------------------------------------------------------
INFLOW
1. Original Contributions from IDA Credit for:
a)  On Ranch Development-/                        867     1,629     1,562       522        120      -
b)  Technical Services'2/                          60        55        59        24         24      -
c)  Research and Studies.3/                         9        45        24
2.  Loan from Central Bank-±/                         217       407       390        130        75      -         -          -         -          -           -           -          -           _
3. Participating Banks Repayment:
a)  Interest during grace periods (5%)             27       105       205       215         91      -         -         -          -          -           -          -           _          _
b)  Tnterest thereafter at 5% p.a.                                               81        196       266       233        199       163        126          84          44         12       -
c)  Principal5/                                                                 168       441        650       683       717        753        790         832        622         268       -
Total                      1,180     2,241     2,240      1,140       947       916        916       916       916         916        916         666         280       -
OUTFLOW
1. Investment:
a) Participating Banks for On-Ranch
Investment                         1,084     2,036     1,952        652       195
b)  Research and Studies                            9        45        24
2.  Technical Services                                 80        81         93        59        59        42         24        16        12           8           6          4          2
3. Payments to Government:
a)  Interest 37(6                                  16        63       122       157        172       175       175        175       175        175         174        173         171        169         167
b)  Principal (1% p.a. years ll-15)6/           -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -          -             50         50          50         50          50
Total                      1,189     2,225     2,191        868       426       217        199       191       187         183        230         227        223         219        217
Annual Cash Surplus or (Deficit)                       (9)        16        49       272       521       699        717       725       729         733        686         439         57        (219)      (217)
Cumulative Surplus7/                                   (9)         7        56       328       849     1,548     2,265      2,990    3,719       4,452       5,138       5,577      5,634       5,415      5,198
1/ 80% of Subloans to Ranchers.
2/  100% of costs Livestock Assistant to DIA Director, 80% of costs of the Project Director, 100% of foreign exchange costs of vehicles and equipment and 30% of costs
of other local technicians and related expenses.
3/ 100% costs of pasture research, review of milk processing industry and scholarships.
4/  20% of Subloans to Ranchers.
5/  Average term of 10 years, including 3 years of grace.   Equal annuity payment years 4-11.                                                                                                                       x
6/  The funds from the IDA Credit on lent to the Central Bank would be repaid over 50 years on the same basis as Government repayments to IDA.
7/  If surpluses were reinvested in agriculture at 3½% interest, net of expenses, the sum at year 15 would amount to RD$6,700,000.   This would equal the Central Bank's
original investment of RD$1,219,000, the remaining debt of RD$4,750,000 from the proceeds of the IDA Credit (to be repaid from years 16 to 50) and a surplus of about
RD$750,000 to cover risk and profit.






ANNEX 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements of a US$5.0 Million Credit
_________________---------- Us$1000.----------------------------------.
Quarter      Disbursed       Balance            Quarter       Disbursed       Balance
Ending                                          Ending
1972                                            1975
March 31         150           4,850            March 31         200            550
June 30          200           4,650            June 30          150            400
Sept 30          250           4,400            Sept 30          100            300
Dec 31           300           4,100            Dec 31           100            200
1973                                            1976
March 31         350           3,7 50           March 31         100            100
June 30          400           3,350            June 30           50             50
Sept 30          450           2,900            Sept 30           50
Dec 31           500           2,400
1974
March 31         500           1,900
June 30          450           1,450
Sept 30          400          1,050
Dec 31           300             750
April 6, 1971






ANNEX 8
Page
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Prospects in the World Beef and Veal Economy l
1.        In 1969, total world meat production (excluding the centrally
planned countries) amounted to 63.3 million tonA, with beef and veal ac-
counting for about 47% of the total.  The developing countries supply about
25% of world meat production, with beef and veal representing over 60% of
the total.
2.        World beef and veal production has been growing by 2.7% yearly
since the early 1960's (Table 1) and reached 29.7 million tons in 1969
(excluding the centrally planned countries). Roughly 3.0% of this total is
veal production. Production in the developed countries expanded slightly
more rapidly (2.8% per year) than in the developing countries (2.6% per
year). One of the major reasons for the difference in growth rates is that
more intensive and advanced production methods, e.g., feed lots, intensive
grassland management, and such, are applied in developed countries.
3.        The growth of meat consumption has reflected a rising demand that
has been responsive to rising incomes. World per capita meat consumption
has been increasing by about 1.1% yearly since the mid-1950's, largely be-
cause of a strong expansion in developed countries. Beef is the preferred
meat, and consumption is expected to continue to increase with rising in-
come, particularly in the major importing areas.
4.        World trade in beef and veal accounts for only about 6.0% of total
beef production and has expanded at 6.0% yearly since the mid-1950's (Table
2). The value of these exports, which has been growing faster (10%) as a
result of price increases (Table 3), amounted to $1.3 billion in 1968.
Developed countries accounted for over 60% of world exports In 1965-67, com-
pared with 56% in the mid-1950's. Major exporters in this group are Australia
and New Zealand, which together account for about 30% of world beef and veal
exports (excluding live cattle). Argentina is by far the major exporter
among the developing countries, accounting for about 25% of world exports.
The share of the developing countries in world exports decreased by 4.0% from
1955-57 to the mid-1960's. Major factors accounting for this decline were
inability to provide sufficient supplies to the world market and sanitary
regulations that impeded free access to import markets.
5.        Exporters also face trade barriers, such as the U.S. Meat Import
Act, which limits import growth to growth in domestic production, and the
1/   This is a summary of a paper entitled "Survey of International Trade
in Beef and Vaal", SecM70-106, March 16, 1970.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
EEC policy for beef and veal, which encourages domestic production expansion
and introduces some instability into tlle world trades system for these items.
6.        Nevertheless, the trade outlook for beef and veml, in contrast to
many other agricultural commodities, ie encouraging in the medium term, al-
tliough domestic supplies are expected to continue to meet, as in the past,
the larger part of demand in moat countries.  Import demand in the devel-
oped countries is expected to increase by about 3.0% yearly in the 1970's.
If the centrally planned countries continue to expand their imports as they
have in the past, the growth rate for total world imports would be higher.
In additioni to the commercial demand in the developed countries, there is
an increasing demand In developing cotntries.  Uowever, this demand, which
represents an import value of over $700 million, may not become effective
because of scarcity of foreign exchange.
7.        Even without considering demand in the developing countries, indi-
cations are that exporters may not be able to satisfy the commercial import
demand in the medium term. Consequently, prices are likely to continue
rising moderately, encouraging domestic production in some importing coun-
tries as well as substitution of beef and veal by other meats.
8.        of particular concern for beef and veal exports from the Dominican
Republic is the U.S. market, which is expected to take most of the former
country's exports. Imports into the United States have been rising in re-
cent years and the country now accounts for about 20% of world beef and
veal imports. Total U.S. beef and veal consumption increased by 3.8%
yearly from 1957-59 to 1967-69, while production increased slightly less.
The consumption expansion would have been even stronger had it not been
slowed down by rising retail. prices (absolute and relative to other meats).
The supply situation, on the other lhand, could have been improved through
higher imports and thus counteract the rise in prices. But the U.S. Meat
Import Act militated against imports taking an increasing share of the im-
portant U.S. market for fresh meats. Processed meats, suclh as canned and
salted, are not subject to the Act.  However, the demand for these types of
meat is not increasing significantly.
9.        Fresh meat imports under the law are only allowed from countries
that are free of diseases such as foot-and-mouth and Rinderpest. This
restricts the number of exporters to Oceania, the Central American countries
north of the Panaia Canal, a few countries in the Caribbean and some other
developed countries, as shown in Appendix 4. The Appendix indicates that
imports are dominated by supplies from Australia and New Zealand, which
provide about 50% and 20%, respectively, of U.S. import supplies subject to
the Act. Imports from the Dominican Republic accounted for 1% of these
imports.
10.       The Mfeat Import Act (enacted in August 1964) provides that, if
yearly imports of certain meats -- primarily beef and mutton -- are esti-
mated to equal or exceed 110% of an adjusted base quota, limitations on fur-
ther i,mports of these meats can be applied.  For 1970, the adjusted base



ANNEX 8
Page 3
quota is 998.8 million pounds and 110% of this (also called the trigger
point) is 1,098.7 million pounds. The President may suspend or increase
the quota levels if he determines that: (a) such action is required by the
underlying economic or national interests of the United States; (b) supply
of these meats will be inadequate to meet domestic demand at reasonable
prices; or (c) trade agreements with supplier countries will ensure that
quota limits will be adhered to. In 1970, quota restrictions were suspended
for the first time and imports will be allowed to increase to 1,140 million
pounds, compared with an original import allowance for the year of 1,098.7
million pounds. But officials point out that this action does not establish
a precedent for subsequent years.
11.       The base quota level is adjusted in accordance with the increase
in U.S. meat production. Domestic production, in this case, is practically
synonymous with domestic demand. Since U.S. beef and veal production is
expected to continue to increase between 2.5% and 3.0% yearly during the
1970's, imports should increase at the same rate.






ANNEX 8
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBIIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Prospects In The world Beef And Veal Econorrtv
Beef And Veal Production By Economic Regions
1961 To 1969
(million metric tons)
Average
19-61-63 1964-66    1967      1968     1969
Developed Countries             16.01    17.82    18.69    19.24    19.40
Developing Countries             8.57     8.66     5.97     6.41      6.45
Centrally Planned Countries      4.03     4.74     5.97      6.41     6.45
World Total                   28.61    31.22    34.41    35.64    36.10
World Total 2/                24.58    26.48    28.44    29.23    29.65
1/  Excluding Asian Centrally Planned Countries.
2/  Excluding all Centrally Planned Countries.
Source:  FAO, Second ad hoc Consultations on Meat and Poultry
doc. CCP:Mah 70/4, April 24, 1970.
April 6, 1971



AINEX 8
Taole s
DOMNICAN REPUBLIC
IIVESTOCK DEVELGFMEINT PROJECT
Market Prospects In The world Beef And Veal Economy
Wdorld Gross Exports Of Beef And Veal And Live Cattle By Regions And
Principal Countries, Averages 1955-57, 1965-67 And 1968
Yearly Rates
Beef and Veal                Live Cattle          of Cbange
(carcass weight)                                   1955-57 to
1965-67
1955-57 1965-67  1968       1955-57 1965-67 1968   Beef &  Live
Veal Cattle
(... 1,000 metric tons..)  (.... 1,000 heads..    (..Percent..)
Developed Countries
Westerm Europe 
EEC 7                    51.6    166.5    296.4       93      481   1,034   12.4   17.9
Denmark                  56.9     84.9      98.6    277       184     156    4.1  - 4.o
Ireland                  20.2     91.0    117.1    708        631     625   16.2  - 1.2
United Kingdom            5.8       8.5      3.0       3      259      161    3.9   55.0
Yugoslavia               10.8      73.5     82.9      87       64      170   21.0  - 3.0
Others                    6.1      27.4      21.1     48      118    196   16.2         8
Total W. Europe      15.       I7-1      619.1  1,216   1,737   2          11 6
North America
Canada                  10.4      25.3      22.7    171       471     354    9.3   10.7
United States           22.7      11.2       8.0      39       48      36  - 6.8    2.1
Total N. America       33.1     36.5      30.7    210    *519*    390    1.0   W97?
Other Developed
Australia               145.2    287.3    255.9       20        7        4    7.1  - 9.9
New Zealand             110.8    110.0    120.1       -         1        4- 0.1    -
South Africa              8.6     19.3      17.8       6        1        1    8.4    -
Japan                     _                            5                 1    -       _
Total Other                                                       -
Developed          264.6    416.6    393.8   __1l           9      10    4.6 -1.7
Total Developed   449.1    904.9  1,043.6  1,457   2,265   2,742    7.2    4.5
Developing Countries
Latin America
Argentina               303.3    376.7    254.9       98      143      163    2.2    3.9
Brazil                   12.0     22.7      39.2       1        5        2    6.6    -
Mexico                    7.1      23.7     32.6    235       557      712   12.8    9.0
Uruguay                  20.7     58.4      95.6       3        6        9   10.9    7.2
Others                    1.1     21.6      57.2  _10         105    -          0  -6  .4
Total Lat. Am.      I32    5303.1   -479.6  --11j           816 i  -        3.9  - 6.2
Africa                      8.4      31.2      34.7    287      356      343   14.0    2.2
Asia                        o.6       1.5       3.4    125      220      222    9.6    5.8
Total Developing  353.2    53.8    517.7    858   1.392   1.515    4.3   _5.
World (exel. Centrally
Planned)                802.3  1,440.7  1,561.3  2,315   3,657   4,257    6.0    5.0
Centrally Planned
Eastern Europe           10.6     56.o      80.9      71      458      535   18.0   21.0
USSR                     38.7       -        -        -        -        -     -       -
China (Mainland)          0.4      -         _        89/2    71/2   112/2  -    - 2.2
Mongolia                  -         -       _        1o772        2    97        - - 1.2
Total Centrally    -
Planned            49.7      56.       80.9    267      624      74      1.2    8.9
World (incl. Centrally
Planned)                852.0  1,496.7  1,642.2  2,582   4,281   4,998    5.8    5.2
1/ Including intra-trade.
2/ Estimated.
Source: FAO, Trade Yearbook 1958, 1968 and 1969 issues.
April 6, 1971



ANMiEX 8
Table 3
DOMINICAN R6PUBIIC
IIVESTOCK DEVELORENT PROJECT
Market Prospects In The riorld Beef And Veal Economy
Beef: Selected Indicators Of Market Prices, 1955-1969
(U.S.$ per metric ton)
United
Kingdom        Australia       Argentina
1/             v 2/
1955                  441.9           365.2           428.6
1956                  367.2           330.0           452.4
1957                  378.7           299.0           452.4
1958                  451.8           315.8           435.7
1959                  512.7           421.8           516.7
1960                  525.3           475.3           507.1
1961                  486.2           475.3           452.5
1962                  491.4           439.5           442.5
1963                  457.0           459.3           450.0
1964                  620.7           467.4           647.5
1965                  661.6           486.4           682.5
1966                  66c.A           535.3           612.5
1967                  633.4           5T0.h           550.0
1968                  637.8           591.5           523.0
1969                  638.0 /         628.0           518.1  j/
1/ U.K. weighted average of import unit values for boneless
beef and chilled and frozen quarter beef.
2/ Average Australian export unit value (carcass weight
basis).
3/ Average import price (c.i.f.), Germany, F.R., for
Argentine frozen quarter beef.
4/ January-November average.
5/ January-October average.
Source: 1955-1967 - FAO, Review of Characteristics, Trends
and Major Problems of the World Meat
Econo y, doc. CCP:Mah 69/3, May 27, 1969;
1968-1969 - Official national trade statistics.
April 6, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Prospects In The world Beef And Veal Economy
-U.S. Imports Of Meat Subject To PL 88-48L (Meat Import Act), By
Country Of Origin Average 1959-6j, Annual 1967-69
(million pounds product weight 1)
Average
Country of Origin             1959-63    1967      1968     1969
Canada                          21.9     25.6      45.3     43.3
Mexico                          54.6     47.8      65.6     66.5
Guaterala                        5.8     18.6      21.6     23.8
Honduras                         5.8     12.7      14.0     20.8
Nicaragua                       14.1     28.3      36.9     39.7
GOBtaU Ricca                    11. 4    24.8      33.9     35.7
-L_i3  3.0     14.2       3.4
2.2      1.14     -
Dom.zi1can Republic              3.1      0.7       9.5     11.4
United igdomi                   3 1.5             3.1      5.2
Ireland                         58.0     8o.6      56.7     66.0
Australi                      358.1    477.9    505.4    543.0
New Zealand                    183.4    171.1    203.5    224.0
Others                           0.9                     -   1.3
Total                722.0    89b.9  1,001.0  1,084.1
1/  Product weight accounts for approximately 75 percent of
carcass weight.
Source:  U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Foreign
Agricultural Trade by Countries, Calendar Year
1969 May 1970.
April 6, 1971



nOICNICAN REPUBLIC
-                                                                                     LIVFSTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'a                                                                                   Financial and Econmaic Returns
Financial Rates of Return
Financial Rate
Before      -----                                   End of llear                                                           of Return
Development     1           2          3          4           5          6           7         o-ll         12               of Rearn
CategOrY   ~ ~~~~~~~(--------------------------------------- p e s o s ------ -----_  --  ------------ -------------                                        pret
Category
400 ha Beef Breeding/Fattening
Ranch, Eastern Region
Sales:
a. cattle sales                       14,590      21,420     20,675      17,555     22,605      29,795     34,490     36,o40      37,o60      37,o60
b. milk                                5,075       5,075      6,755       7,070      7,525       7,70u      7,700       .7,00      1,700       7,700
Total Sales                             19,665      26,495     27,430      24,625     30,130      37,495     42,190      43,740     44.760      44,76C               21.3
On Ranch Investment                       -        (20,000)    (8,000)    (5,0c0)       -           -          -           -
Operating Expenses                      (9,915)    (17 420)   (18,110)   (17,260)   (19,190)   (21,070)   (20,650)   (19,830)   (19,510)   (19,510)
Interest on Working Capital (10%)         (496)       (871)       (9079)     (863)      (960)    (1,053)                              v -
Incremental Value of Herd                 -                 -          -                                                              -     5 3,870
Balance                                  9,254     (11,796)        415     l1,0       _9,980     15,372      21,540      23,910     25,250    79,12(3
Incremental Balance'/                     -        (21,050)    (8,839)    (7,752)        726      6,118      12,286     l4,656      15,996     69,866
250 ha Beef/Dairy Ranch,
Narthern Regon
Sales:
a. cattle sales                       9,600      14,060     15,360      17,480     16,150     13,120      14,120      16,580     18,340     18,340
b' ilk sales7 7,69                                7,69        9,945     11,092     .1,75       12,393     13,770     15,390      15,390     15,390
Total Sales                             17,295      21,755      25,305     28,572     27,625      25,513     27,890      31,970     33,730      33,730               22.6
On Ranch Investment                       -        (17,000)    (7,000)    (3,90)        -           -          -           -          -           -
Operating Expenses                      (6,299)    (12,115)   (14,270)   (16,130)   (15,425)   (12,240)    (9,705)    (8,645)    (8,645)    (8,645)
Interest on Working Capital               (1)         (606)       (713)      (807)      (771)       (612)
Incremental Value of Herd                       -           -          -           -    _     -          -           -                -        61,985
Balance                                10,681       (7,966)      3.322      8,139     11,429      12.661     18,185      23,325     25,085      87,070
Incremental Balancel/                    -         (18,647)    (7,359)    (2,546)        748       1,980      7,504     12,644      14,404     76,389
100 ha Dairy/Beef Fattening
Ranch. Northern Region and Cibao
Sales:
a. dattle sales                       3,425        3,625       4,395      5,575      4,375       6,005      5,970       8,270      9,050       9,050
b. milk sales                         4,950        5,400       7,956      9,198      9,855      10,512     12,240      12,240     12,240      12,240
Total sales                             8,375        90o25      12,351     14,773     14,230      16,517     18,210      20,510     21,290      21,290               22.7
On Ranch Investment                      -         (19,500)    (4,O0O)    (1,500)       -           -          -           -          -           -
Operating Expenses                      (4,011)     (5,455)    (6,380)    (7,450)    (7,170)    (6,680)    (5,900)    (6,560)    (6,565)    (6,565)
Interest on Working Capital               (203)       (273)       (319)      (372)       (358)      (334)
Incremental Value of Herd                                         ---  -  -   -                    -           -          -           -         31,365
Balance                                  4,164     (16,203)      1,652      5.451      6,702       9,503     12,310      13,950     14,725      46,090
Incremental Balance                       -        (20,36,7)   (2,512)      1,287      2,53         5,3Z9     8.146       9,786     10,561      41,926
1/ Relative to "-Before Development" situation.
Negative figuif appear between parenthesis.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
i-,
0.
-4
r                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Financial and Economic Returns
Economic Rate of Return
Year
1          2         3          4        5        6          7         o          9         13          11         12          13         14
------------------------------------------------------------000' Pesos------------------------------------------------------------------)
Aggregate of Ranchers
Incremental Cash Balances
I.  l00-100ha ranches M/             (631)     (1,107)   (1,219)    (555)      (21)      636      1,115      1,435     1,560       1,600      1,600      3,216       3,275      2,096
2.  4o-25O ha ranches E               (186)        (447)     (358)    (118)       10      122        296        472       558         576        576       1,196      1,672         764
3.  120-100 ha ranches 3/             (611)     (1,0931      (901)      41      339       614        916      1,133     1,237       1,268      1,268      2,209       2,520      1,677
Technical Services                        (89)        (126)     (117)     (59)      (59)      -          -         -         -           -          -           -          - _
Balance                          (1,517)     (2,771)   (2,595)    (691)      269    1,372       2,327      3,o40     3,355       3,444      3,444      6,621       7,467       4,537
The Economic Rate of Return is about 21 perceat
1/  Aggregation of individual rancher's incremental balances (Annex  9, Table 1), assuming that 30 ranchers would start investment in the first year of the Project, 40 in the second
and 30 in the third.
2/  Aggregation of individual rancher's incremental balances (Annex  9, Table l), assuming that 10 rancners would start investment in the first year of the Project, 20 in the second
and 10 in the third,
3/ Aggregation of individual rancher's incremental balances (Annex  9, Table 1 ), assuming that 30 ranchers would start investment in the first year of the Project, 50 in the
second and 40 in the third.
I  See Annex 4..



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate of Return Calculation
The computation of the Economic Rate of Return (Table 2) rests on
the following assumptions:
(1) Each of the ranch models described in Annex 3 is an
average ranch type to be financed under the Project.
(2) Participation of ranches in the Project would be
phased as follows:
Project Year
Ranch Model                  1    2    3    Total
--Number of Ranches--
400-ha Beef Breeding/Fattening  30   40   30    100
100-ha Dairy/Beef Fattening       30   50   40    120
250-ha Beef/Dairy                 10   20   10      40
Total                  70  110   80    260
(3) Except for cattle, which reproduce indefinitely, invest-
ments financed under the Project have an assumed useful
life of 12 years. Therefore, participating ranchers'
expected cash flows have been computed over 12 years and,
in each case, the incremental value of the herd has been
inputed as a cash inflow in year 12.
(4) Ranchers would sell fat steers at 0.41 RD$/kg, the legal
price ceiling, about 10% lower than the on-going price
(September 1970). The milk selling price would be 0.09
RD$ per liter, the average price received by ranchers in
the Project areas.
(5) Market input prices reflect reasonably well the economic
value of inputs.
(6) The Project cash flow consists of the aggregation of the
individual cash flows of 260 ranches, phased as in 2 above,
plus the cost of operating the Project-related technical
services of the Central Bank during the disbursement period.
(7) Transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies are negligible
and can be disregarded.






'SCRISTI -<
_                                                        -q r- e}= X = =  <DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
1X~ - ~o                        _--_A  <LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VERDE            t>
-       SDAJABON                     MAO                                                          /                                                             PROJECT   AREAS
0' SARANETA:                                    
( RS\        1SANTIAGO                             A    s                            TRU4IDAD
u  4>e \ RODRIGUEZ    C                  1AGO                                  S
01>                               >                ]          f W  t                    3  ) dS bE MACOR*S   '--    '  > __ m - NC ,        0
LA    ~        ~       ~       --                   SAMANA                                4
LAVEGA       -,                                         OSD U  A  R T  E "Sonchs  055MAN
%            -~~~~~~~~~~       D U~~~~~~~~                                 A- RIt-"(S
(                                 'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Jk-e   1a~~    '~E              ,_~/  A  Vu IC__ G A
_r   <                                                                         3-Q 0 50  L A     E?                                       C7 _SjgHxfk'~\- - g
NsE~                        SANP                             tX   j                                  0      j-S A N    C RI T 5AT O   - A  EL   SEI
Z                                 © )  B A R A H O JUAN A                                                                                                 EN
S  0 ' -'     1('~                            LA
le                                             ZU                                            IS  ITOA                                     0Y 
\<,tPEDERNALEs    ,j   K                                         F~~~~~~~~~INA
-1   0R  -                        U                                                                    _ _,  E
)       BEDR A OLUS -,                                    I                                                 '-             ANE       'MN
,,SAN                                              E MA5
J'kRISMBAL~ /N                                            N DDOMINGO                             (               pN
IN'DEPt                                                            fe~ ~ ~ C~C                                        ~1 
7'                ~~~~~~BAN©                                                                                     /
--_             DARClbAOREGION                                                                                              aAR-B
N               B~~~~~~ARAHON  /A 
/PE)ERNALES    C                                                                         0
)PEDERNALE'S           'Glfo Mx
\K>                                                                        j                                  __0_ EASTERN REGION ;   1                CIii Rl                     _EE
L ~~~~~~~~~~~NRHR EINDOMINCAN
~~~~jJ                       N~~~~~~~~CRORHN REGION                                    tPEI
0   I()  50   30   40   5                                                                    
NOVEMBER 1970                                       Cr                                                    ;r °ociEcOceon I0 f                                                                                I D  CRD 3201R
NOVEMBER 1970



