CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 245 DO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
0
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 19, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 245 DO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 19, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1971, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by granting
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Project will be carried out by the Banco Central de la
Repu'blica Dominicana (hereinafter called the Banco Central), with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will relend to the Banco
Central the proceeds of the Credit as provided herein and in a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and the Banco Central; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Banco Central;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applic, . to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   the words "the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
(c)   the words "or under the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02; and


﻿4
(d)   the following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   the term "Banco Central" means the Banco Central de la Repu'blica
Doninicana regulated by Organic Law No. 6.142 of December 29, 1962, as
amended from time to time, and includes any successor thereto;
(b)   the term "Participating Bank" means any bank or development finance
company which has entered into a Project Administration Agreement;
(c)   the term  "Project Administration Agreement" means any of the
Agreements referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement and includes
any amendment to any such Agreement with the concurrence of the Association;
(d)   the term "Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement (Livestock
Development Project) between the Association and the Banco Central of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules thereto;
(e)   the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes the schedule thereto;
(f)   the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the relending provided for in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)   the term  "Part A Loan" means any loan included in Part A of the
Project;
(h)   the term  "Part B Loan" means any loan included in Part B of the
Project;
(i)   the term  "Development Credit Account" means the Development
Credit Account referred to in Section 2.03 of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿5
(j) the term "DIA" means the Department of International Agreements
of the Banco Central;
(k)   the term "LPD" means the Livestock P-ioject Division referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement;
(1)   the term  "Project Director" means the Project Director referred to
in Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(m)   the term "Livestock Assistant to DIA Director" means the Livestock
Assistant to DIA Director referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement;
and
(n)   the term "Investment Plan" means any of the Investment Plans referred
to in paragraph (i) of Schedule I to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
*        and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods proOuced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
7


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1981 and ending November 15, 2020, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1990, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall cause the Banco Central to use the proceeds
of payments which it receives from the Participating Banks under any Project
Administration Agreement and which are not curently required to service the
Subsidiary Loan, for further lending for either agricultural development or such
other purpose as the Borrower and the Association shall agree. The Borrower and
the Association shall consult from time to time as to the procedure for ensuring
effective use of such proceeds.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Banco Central is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and economic practices, and in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and shall provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Banco
Central under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the


﻿7
Borrower and the Banco Central under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on the part of each of them to enable the Banco
Central to perform all of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall at all times supply, or make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for the supply of, ranchers with all such imported
or locally produced brucellosis vaccine and other veterinary products, at competitive
prices, as shall be required for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Banco Central of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the Banco Central
and of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,


﻿8
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial conditiot, in respect of the Project, of
the Banco Central and of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which .terferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
or the performance by the Banco Central of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance


﻿9
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additiolal events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of the Banco Central under the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and such default shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the
Banco Central.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Banco Central or
for the suspension of its operations.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Banco Central can perform its obligations inder the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Banco Central have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Banco Central, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action and a
certified translation thereof into English has been furnished to the Association by
the Borrower.


﻿10
(c)  The execution and delivery of a Project Administration Agreement on
behalf of the Banco Central and a Participating Bank, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action and a
certified translation thereof into English has been furnished to the Association by
the Borrower.
(d)   LPD has been instituted and provided with the Project Director and
with all such experts, supporting staff, facilities and other resources as are necessary
for its initial operation.
(e)   The Livestock Assistant to DIA Director has been appointed.
(f)  The Development Credit Account has been provided with not less than
the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) for the purposes of
making the first Part A Loans.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Banco Central, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of the Banco Central in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Banco
Central, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and the Banco Central in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the Project Administration Agreement referred to in Section 7.01
(c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Banco Central and the Participating Bank, respectively,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Banco Central and the
Participating Bank in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date August 17, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and terminate and the provisions of Section 6.02 (a) shall
lapse on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿*                                11
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Governor of the Banco Central and, in his absence, the
person then fulfilling the functions of Governor of the Banco Central is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco Central de la Rep'blica Dominicana
Calle Pedro Henriques Urefia
Santo Domingo, D.N.
Dominican Republic
Cable address:
Bancentral
Santo Domingo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Marcos de Pefia
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿*                                13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.    Disbursements made            4,500,000            80% of such dis-
by the Banco Central                               bursements
under Part A Loans
II.   Technical Services:
(a)   Remuneration of            183,000           100% of total
the Livestock                                expenditures
Assistant to DIA
Director, fel-
lowships and
training, research
grants, and dairy-
marketing consul-
tants' fees
(b)   Project Director's          50,000           80% of total
remuneration                                 expenditures
(c)   Vehicles and                15,000           100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures
(d)   Remuneration of             52,000           30% of total ex-
other profession-                            penditures
al and secretar-
ial staff and
gasoline in
respect of LPD
III.  Unallocated                     200,000
TOTAL              5,000,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency of any
member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or Switzerland; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures before the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount ol the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category 11 (b)


﻿15
or II (d) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first stage of the Borrower's livestock development program
and consists of:
Part A:     Provision to ranchers of: (a) long-term loans (from seven to ten years)
through Participating Banks and (b) technical assistance through DIA     and
Participating Banks for the development of:
(i)         about 100 beef breeding and fattening ranches in the Eastern
region;
(ii)        about 120 dairy and beef ranches in the Northern region and
in the Cibao Valley region; and
(iii)       about 40 beef and dairy ranches in the Northern region.
The loans included in this Part A    will be used for financing pasture
development, ranch installations, machinery and equipment, and breeding cattle.
Part B:     Provision by Participating Banks of short-term loans (up to three years)
to ranchers receiving Part A Loans, for the purchase of feeder steers and other
working-capital needs.
Part C:     Conducting of field trials on pasture and forage establishment and
management.
Part D:     Study  of the economic and market impact of dairy-processing
industries in the Dominican Republic.
Part E.     Local and overseas training of Dominican personnel.
Part B of the Project will not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


