CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 245 DO
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
DATED MAY 19, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 245 DO
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
DATED MAY 19, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,      dated May 19, 1971,      between   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANCO
CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA (hereinafter called the Banco
Central).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
Dominican Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association (said
development credit agreement being hereinafter referred to as the Development
Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Banco Central agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Banco Central, the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Banco Central
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Banco Central, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Banco Central shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement through DIA and with due


﻿4
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
agricultural and economic practices; and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the
preceding paragraph, the Banco Central shall, out of its own resources, provide
the Development Credit Account with all such amounts as shall be necessary to
make its own financing of Part A of the Project equal to about one-fifth of the
financing thereof provided out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan.
Section 2.02. The Banco Central shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under any Project Administration Agreement.
Except as the Association and the Banco Central shall otherwise agree, the Banco
Central shall not amend, abrogate, assign or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any Project Administration Agreement, or any provision of any of such
agreements.
Section 2.03. For the purposes of carrying out the Project:
(a)   the Banco Central shall (i) operate within DIA a Livestock Project
Division (LPD) under the authority of a qualified and experienced Project Director
acceptable to the Association and the Banco Central, responsible directly to the
Director of DIA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and
the Banco Central and with such responsibilities and powers as are specified in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) provide LPD, promptly as needed, with
such experts acceptable to the Project Director and to the Livestock Assistant to
DIA Director, and supporting staff, facilities and other resources as shall be
necessary for its efficient operation.
(b)   The Banco Central shall appoint a qualified and experienced Livestock
Assistant to DIA Director acceptable to, and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to, the Association and the Banco Central, and with such responsibilities and powers
as are specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Banco Central shall invite public and private banks and
development finance companies established in the Borrower's territories to
participate in the carrying out of the Project, and shall on-lend thereto the proceeds
of the Development Credit Account through Project Administration Agreements
under which, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, each Participating Bank
shall, inter alia:
(a)   undertake (i) to maintain separate accounts in respect of the use of
such proceeds, cause such accounts to be audited in a manner satisfactory to the


﻿5
Association and submit to the Association certified copies of the audits thereof
not later than three months after the end of each fiscal year; (ii) to make Part
A Loans and Part B Loans in accordance with the operating policies and procedures
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iii) to provide ranchers with technical
assistance, satisfactory to the Project Director and to the Livestock Assistant to
DIA Director, in preparing and implementing Investment Plans; (iv) to employ in
the Project livestock technicians acceptable to the Project Director and to the
Livestock Assistant to DIA Director; (v) to cause such technicians to be trained
under the authority of the Project Director; (vi) to supervise, through such
technicians, the progress in ranch development under the Project; and
(b)   be entitled to obtain refinancing at the Banco Central for the same
terms and grace periods provided for Part A Loans, for the amounts of Part A
Loans, at a rate of interest of five per cent (5%) per annum, provided such
Participating Bank shall accept the Banco Central's refinancing terms and conditions
and shall agree to finance such working capital as shall be necessary for the Project.
Section 2.05. The Banco Central shall submit to the Association, for review,
any Part A Loan proposed to be made in excess of the equivalent of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000), or which shall cause the aggregate of Part A Loans
to the same rancher to exceed such equivalent, and shall not refinance any such
Loan without the concurrence of the Association.
Section 2.06. In carrying out Part D of the Project the Banco Central shall
employ market-research consultants acceptable to, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to, the Association and the Banco Central.
Section 2.07. (a) Except as the Association and the Banco Central shall
otherwise agree: (i) the goods and services (other than consultants' services) required
for the Project, shall be procured through regular commercial channels from
responsible suppliers; and (ii) the vehicles to be financed under Category 11 (c)
of the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
shall be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding, from suppliers with
efficient servicing facilities and sufficient spare parts available within the territories
of the Borrower.
(b)   Except as the Association and the Banco Central may otherwise agree,
the Banco Central shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.08. The Banco Central shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof, the Investment Plans, loans
made and disbursed under the Project Administration Agreements, and LPD's


﻿6
expenses), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
of the Banco Central
Section 3.01. The Banco Central shall at all times, in respect of the Project,
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position and carry on its operations in
accordance with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent staff in adequate number.
Section 3.02. The Banco Central shall at all times maintain its existence
and right to carry on operations and shall, except as the Association and the Banco
Central shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Banco Central shall use the proceeds of payments which
it receives from the Participating Banks under any Project Administration
Agreement and which are not currently required to service the Subsidiary Loan,
for further lending for either agricultural development or such other purpose as
the Association and the Banco Central shall agree. The Association and the Banco
Central shall consult from time to time as to the procedure for ensuring effective
use of such proceeds.
Section 4.02. The Banco Central shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition in respect of the Project and of the use of the
proceeds referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Banco Central shall, in respect of the Project and of the
use of the proceeds referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement: (i) have its


﻿7
accounts, including the Development Credit Account, and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Banco
Central; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Banco Central
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Banco Central shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Banco Central shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the Banco Central and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Banco Central shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and the Banco Central of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Banco Central shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect any of its records and documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿8
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Banco Central hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following
two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement;
provided, however, that the obligations under Section 4.01, and those relevant
thereto under Section 4.02 and Section 4.03, of this Agreement, shall in no event
terminate before termination of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Banco Central of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Banco Central:
Banco Central de la Repiblica Dominicana
Calle Pedro Henriques Urefa
Santo Domingo, D.N.
Dominican Republic
Cable address:
Bancentral
Santo Domingo
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Banco Central may be taken or executed by the Director of DIA or such
other person or persons as the Banco Central shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Banco Central shall furnish to the Association sufficient
*        evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Banco Central, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Banco Central
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
By /s/ Di6genes H. Fernandez
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE I
Operating Policies and Procedures
Except as the Association and the Banco Central shall otherwise agree,
Parficipating Banks shall:
(i)         provide Part A Loans and Part B Loans to creditworthy ranchers and
in accordance with Investment Plans approved on the authority of the
Project Director and the Livestock Assistant to DIA Director;
(ii)        process all applications for such Loans in accordance with their normal
administrative and financial procedures, and accept, as security, real
estate mortgages or chattel mortgages on livestock and equipment, or
both;
(iii)       make Part A Loans in an amount of about eighty per cent (80%)
of the total investments, excluding land, set forth in the Investment
Plans, with a grace period ranging from two to four years, at an interest
rate of nine per cent (9%) per annum. No more than fifty per cent
(50%) of the proceeds of such Loans, or of the total amount of the
respective Investment Plans, whichever shall be deemed more
appropriate by the Project Director and the Livestock Assistant to DIA
Director, shall be used for purchasing breeding cattle; and
(iv)        provide Part B Loans out of their own resources.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
The Project Director
Except as the Association and the Banco Central shall otherwise agree, the
Project Director shall have the necessary authority, and shall be responsible for:
(i)         handling the technical aspects of Part A   and Part B of the Project
in accordance with the recommendations of the Livestock Assistant to DIA
Director, inter alia ensuring that DIA and Participating Banks' technicians visit
Project Ranchers at regular intervals to extend technical assistance;
(ii)        presenting Investment Plans and loan applications approved by the
Livestock Assistant to DIA Director to the appropriate authorities within the Banco
Central;
(iii)       carrying out Part C and Part E of the Project in accordance with the
recommendations of the Livestock Assistant to DIA Director;
(iv)        technically cooperating with the Directorate General of Livestock of
the Borrower's Secretariat of Agriculture to ensure that all cattle under the Project
are dipped or sprayed as required against external parasites, drenched against
external worms and vaccinated against brucellosis, black leg, hemorrhagic septicemia
and hemoglobinuria;
(v)         preparing jointly  with  the Livestock Assistant to DIA      Director
quarterly and annual progress reports for submission to the Association and DIA;
(vi)        assuring that Project ranchers will keep a system      of records in
accordance with the recommendations of the Livestock Assistant to DIA Director;
(vii)       establishing and maintaining records of sample ranches as needed for
Project evaluation in accordance with the recommendations of the Livestock
Assistant to DIA Director; and
(viii)      three years after the Effective Date, taking over the authority and
responsibilities of the Livestock Assistant to DIA Director.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 3
Livestock Assistant to DIA Director
Except as the Association and the Banco Central shall otherwise agree and
subject to paragraph (viii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Livestock Assistant
to DIA Director shall have the necessary authority, and shall be responsible for:
(i)         recommending field technicians to be employed in the Project by DIA,
and their duty stations;
(ii)        evaluating the qualifications of field technicians employed in the
Project by Participating Banks, recommending their replacement when necessary
and the appointment of new ones;
(iii)       recommending a program     for carrying out Part E of the Project
including the training of DIA's and Participating Banks' technical staff as necessary
for the Project, and approving all training fellowships under the Project;
(iv)        recommending on the performance of field technicians employed in
the Project by DIA and Participating Banks and on their acceptability for such
employment;
(v)         approving the technical feasibility  and financial viability of all
Investment Plans before presentation thereof to DIA's appropriate authorities within
the Banco Central;
(vi)        visiting Project-financed ranches at intervals to determine progress;
(vii)       developing a simple and adequate system for the keeping of records
on Project-financed ranches;
(viii)      notifying DIA and Participating Banks of problems in connection with
Part A and Part B Loans and suggesting remedial action;
(ix)        proposing field trials included in Part C of the Project and approving
the carrying out of such trials before any funds are allocated therefor;
(x)         cooperating with the Project Director in the preparation of quarterly
and annual progress reports for submission to the Association and DIA, and
co-signing them with him;


﻿13
(xi)       recommending the establishment and maintenance of records of sample
ranches as needed for Project performance evaluation; and
(xii)       guiding DIA staff in preparation of a second livestock development
project.


