Report No. 23828
Report No: I059161 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/11/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MEXICO Project ID: P059161
Project: Climate Friendly measures in Transport           Task Team
Leader: Walter Vergara
Authorized to Appraise Date: August 26, 2002      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: September 17, 2002        IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSEN     Sector: VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project development objective is to contribute to the development of
policies and measures that will assist in a long-term modal shift toward
climate-friendly, more efficient and less polluting, less carbon intensive
transport in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). Specifically, the
project will support aspects of the recently completed Air Quality
Management Plan (2002-2010) which are consistent with the GEF operational
program on sustainable transport (OP-11) and the Climate Action Plan for
Mexico City.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project consists of six components:
a) Harmonization of sector strategies on air quality issues and Integrated
Climate Action Plan for Transport (CAP) in the MCMA ($0.8 million with a
$0.4 million GEF grant).
This component will support efforts to: a) facilitate the process of
integration of strategies between the air quality (the air quality
management plan), urban plan (land use plan) and transport sector plan in
order to facilitate the adoption of harmonized policies on the air quality
area; b) assess urban development models as linked to the process of air
quality management; and c) assist in the development, evaluation and
monitoring of the Mexico City Climate Action Plan as it relates to the
transport sector. It is anticipated the plan will be adopted under the
project by the end of PY1. The project will finance consultancy studies
and equipment.
b) Definition of an enabling environment to facilitate the implementation
of sustainable transport strategies ($4.8 million with a $2.9 million GEF
grant).
The key project activity will focus on the promotion of measures that will
facilitate a modal shift in the transport sector of the Metropolitan area
(from one based on an increasing share of small, gasoline-based vehicles
to a system based on high capacity, fuel efficient and low carbon emitting



vehicles, running along transport corridors and linked and integrated
with the Metro system).
To this effect, the project will focus on the adoption of an enabling
policy and regulatory environment that will permit the development of
transport corridors, as a key element of the modal shift. Transport
corridors are expected to lead to a more efficient, less polluting public
transport sector. The project will support a review of management and
business organization measures that may be required to promote the
adoption, design and use of corridor infrastructure, including a system of
business organization, the concessions for specific bus line operations
and the structuring of integrated fares. The component will also fund
technical assistance to identify, improve and facilitate the adoption of
economic incentives and regulatory system reforms required to overcome
barriers to adoption of high capacity and non-motorized transport. This
component will support the reform of public transport regulations for the
proposed corridors. In addition, an institutional framework for the
corridors including the integration with the metro will be defined and
measures to promote metro rider-ship will be identified. This component
will also finance an assessment of organizational measures proposed by the
Mexico City Authorities to improve air quality and public transport
efficiency. The studies will have a metropolitan character and would be
commissioned after endorsement by the SMA, SETRAVI and the Secretary of
Communications and Transport of the State of Mexico.
This component will also support an action plan for non-motorized
transport. The objective of this action plan is to promote the use of
bicycles as a mode of transport and aims at diverting commuters from
motorized modes, especially private cars. Emphasis would be placed on
campaigns to (a) expand bicycle use by improving its image and explaining
its advantages, (b) raise traffic safety awareness, and (c) provide
incentives to schools, employers, building managers, car park operators,
and the Metro to provide bicycle parking on their premises. The program
will be designed based on the large body of experiences (Europe, Bogota,
Santiago, others) and literature to ensure that the resources available
will be used as effectively as possible.
The project will finance consultancy services and technical assistance.
The outputs of this component will facilitate the adoption of measures
required to implement the corridors which would be funded under the
proposed Second Air Quality and Transport Project. The outputs however
are important even if the loan does not materialize.
c) Field Test of Climate-Friendly High Capacity Vehicles ($4.8 million
with a GEF grant of $1.6 million).
This component will support a comparative pilot (field test) for
alternative bus and fuel technologies (hybrid and CNG) and modern diesel
vehicles to test the comparative and absolute technical, economic, and
environmental viability and climate advantages under typical operations in
the MCMA. The testing vehicles will operate on a route, chosen to
represent the average conditions of the metropolitan area, in terms of
supply, demand, physical and topographic characteristics, and service
providers. The buses will be operating on normal conditions, and their
emissions would be regularly measured under a scientifically designed and
statistically representative test protocol (the test protocol, including
- 2 -



sample size, will be designed during project preparation by IMP with
assistance from MIT, University of West Virginia and the Institute for
Transportation Studies at the University of Berkeley).
Mexico city is an appropriate venue for this test given: i) the magnitude
of the air quality problem; ii) the just completed comprehensive air
quality management plan; iii) the availability of a modeling tool, focused
on the characteristics of the metropolitan area to simulate and evaluate
impacts of the proposed measures; iv) the presence of bus manufacturers;
and v) available data on local and greenhouse gas emissions (inventories)
that provide the current baseline. In particular, the test results will
greatly benefit from the availability of the Multiscale Climate and
Chemistry Model, recently adopted by the metropolitan authorities to
simulate the impact on air quality and human exposures to specific air
quality measures, developed during the assistance to the formulation of
the air quality management plan. The project will partially fund the
incremental cost of the vehicles and the cost of the testing and
monitoring protocols.
This field test will consist of real time measurement of the following
parameters: a) emissions (local and global) resulting from current and
anticipated driving cycles; b) real operating costs; c) fuel efficiency
per type of vehicles, and other indicators of sustainable transport (Annex
9). The results of this test will be of value to other high altitude
cities, such as Bogota and Quito in the region. The test protocol will be
ready by CEO endorsement.
d) Technical assistance and training for incorporation of climate change
and air quality considerations in the design and analysis of transport
strategies (US$0.8 million; funded with a US$0.4 million GEF grant).
This component will finance technical assistance and capacity building in
order to incorporate climate and environmental considerations in the
design of transport projects. Technical assistance, capacity building and
training will be provided in the following aspects:
a) Review and support to the restructuring of legal functions for SETRAVI
as related to transport planning;
b) Cost-benefit analysis using inter-alia, the data produced by the field
test and including considerations of infrastructure costs and local and
global environmental impacts, using the data produced by the field test
(component c);
c) Measurement of emissions from bus transport; including training to bus
operators, mechanics, and maintenance staff; and
d) Implementation of regulations.
e) Public Awareness and Dissemination ($0.3 million, $0.3 million GEF
grant).
This component will support the design of a public campaign with respect
to the impacts of sustainable transport strategies on climate change,
other environmental and health impacts, outlining the advantages and
objectives of transport corridors as well as benefits from the use of
high capacity vehicles and non-motorized modes of transport . This
component will also support the dissemination of technical information
produced by the project and will promote and finance workshops and
-3 -



stakeholder meetings.
f) Project Management ($ 0.7 million, $0.2 million GEF grant).
This component will support the management of the project activities,
including monitoring and evaluation. The project will finance management
costs in the form of consultancy services and travel. The implementation
agency will be the Secretary of Environment of the Mexico City Government
(SecretarUa del Medio Ambiente del Gobierno del Distrito Federal).
Components:
Harmonization of sector strategies and Integrated Climate Action Plan
(CAP) for the MCMA.
Enabling environment to facilitate the implementation of sustainable
transport strategies.
Field Test of Climate-Friendly High Capacity Vehicles and action plan for
non-motorized transport.
Incorporation of climate change and air quality considerations in the
design and analysis of transport startegies.
Public Awareness and Dissemination.
Project Management.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be located in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA).
It constitutes one of the largest metropolitan areas in the world,
contains 19% of the country's population and is the largest area-source of
pollutants in the country. It has an area of 4,945 km2, an altitude of
2,240 m above sea level and is surrounded by mountains with an average
height of 3,200 m with peaks of 5,400, which induces frequent thermal
inversions in the atmosphere. Population has grown from 3.0 million in
1950 to 18.8 million today and is expected to grow at an annual rate
between 1-2% over the next 25 years. This large population and the
associated urban growth has put many Mexicans at risk to the health
hazards of air pollution.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project will fund studies, policy reform and a field test of
climate friendly vehicles, none of which will have any adverse
environmental impacts.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)        No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)   No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)   No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)     No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)       No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)   No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)    No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)     No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*       No
- 4 -



Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project will focus on climate change-related policy and regulatory
reform and the development of a climate action plan. In addition, there
will be a field test of climate friendly buses (about 12 buses). The
field test will involve established routes, will not require any new works
and therefore will not involve any social issues and the only
environmental issues are related to standard maintenance of the vehicles,
such as disposal of waste oil. Therefore no safeguard policies are
triggered. In order to ensure the environmental benefits of the project
in the short and long term are maximized, the policy reform and field
test, including the chosen routes for the field test and transport
corridors, will be based on an extensive characterization of the airshed
of the Mexico City Metropolitan Area and assessment of environmental
impact of transport policy options done under the WB environment sector
work.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The project is expected, as described before, to enable the mainstreaming
of harmonized climate change strategies into the transport and air quality
management plans. Accordingly, the key interlocutors are the transport
and environmental authorities in Mexico City and the State of Mexico.     In
addition, the transport companies operating in the area will also play an
important role. These agencies and groups have participated in
discussions leading to the conceptualization of the project.
Other important stakeholders, such as the secretaries of finance,
technical and planning agencies, citizen groups and others will be engaged
- 5-



through meetings and discussions during preparation of the project. A
project advisory committee will be constituted to provide an overview and
quality control during project preparation, representing all key
stakeholders.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Walter Vergara  3/11/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan Quintero    3/11/02
Sector Manager/Director:         John Redwood    3/11/02
- 6 -



For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 7 -



