Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24871-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.4 Million (US$ 5.80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.N.C
AND
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
INTRODUCTION OF CLIMATE FRIENDLY MEASURES IN TRANSPORT
September 26, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Department
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



('RR\IENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Curr-ency Unit = Pesos
10.00 Pesos = US$1.00
US$1.00 = $10.00 pesos
FISCAL YEAR
2003 -- 2007
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AQM                Programa para mejorar la Calidad del Aire en la Zona Metropolitana
del Valle de Mexico 2002-2010
Air Quality Management Plan
BANOBRAS           Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos
National Bank of Public Works and Services
CAM                Comisi6n Ambiental Metropolitana
Metropolitan Environmental Commission
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
Estrategia de Asistencia del Pais
CEC                Commission of Environmental Cooperation
Comisi6n de Cooperaci6n Ambiental
CEO                Chief Executive Officer
COMETRAVI          Comisi6n Metropolitana de Transporte y Vialidad
Metropolitan Commission of Transport and Roads
COP 7              Conference of the Parties No. 7
Conferencia de las Partes No 7
GEF                Global Environment Facility
Fondo Ambiental Global
GHG                Greenhouse gas
Gases de efecto invemadero
IDF                Institutional Development Fund
Fondo de Desarrollo Institucional
IMECA              Indice Metropolitano de la Calidad del Aire
Metropolitan Index of the Quality Air
IMP                Instituto Mexicano del Petr6leo
Mexican Oil Institute .
NE                 Instituto Nacional de Ecologia
National Institute of Ecology
IPCC               Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change
Panel Intergubernamental de Cambio Climatico
MCCAP              Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan
Plan de Acci6n Metropolitano de Cambio Climatico
MCMA               Mexico City Metropolitan Area
Ciudad de Mexico y Area Metropolitana



OLADE              Organizaci6n Latinoamericana de Energia
Latin-American Energy Organization
OP 11              Operational Program 11
Programa Operacional 11
PICCA              Programa Integral para el Control de la Contaminaci6n Atmosferica
Integral Program for the control of the Atmospheric Pollution
PIU                 Proyect Implementation Unit
Unidad de Implantaci6n del Proyecto
PROAIRE            Programa para Mejorar la Calidad del Aire de la Zona Metropolitana del
Valle de Mexico
Program to Improve the Air Quality in the Metropolitan Area
RAMA                      Red Automatica de Monitoreo Ambiental
Automatic Net of Environmental Monitoring
RTP                Red de Transporte de Pasajeros del Distrito Federal
DF Bus Network
SETRAVI            Secretarfa de Transporte y Vialidad del Gobierno del Distrito Federal
Secretary of Transport
SCT                Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y Transporte del Estado de Mexico
Secretary of Communications and Transport
SMA                Secretarfa de Medio Ambiente del Gobiemo del Distrito Federal
Environmental Secretary for the City
STC                Sistema de Transporte Colectivo
Metro System
STE                Sistema de Transportes Eldctricos
Electric Surface Transport System
VOCs                Volatile organic compounds
Compuestos organicos voldtiles
WRI                World Resources Institute
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:  John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Walter Vergara



MEXICO
INTRODUCTION OF CLIMATE FRIENDLY MEASURES IN TRANSPORT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                    3
2. Key performance indicators                                                       3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       8
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              17
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   22
3. Benefits and target population                                                  24
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   25
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       29
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      29
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             31
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                32
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     32
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        32
2. Financial                                                                       32
3. Technical                                                                       32
4. Institutional                                                                   33
5. Environmental                                                                   33
6. Social                                                                          34
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              35
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  35
2. Critical risks                                                                  36



3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            37
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         51
Annex 4: Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits                             52
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    60
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    61
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                         67
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            77
Annex 11: Project Chronogram                                                             78
Annex 12: Transmilenio Mass Transit System                                               83
Annex 13: Timing and Integrated Strategy                                                 86
Annex 14: Center for Sustainable Transport, Energy and Environment                       88
Annex 15: Cost of Field Test                                                             91
Annex 16: Test Protocol                                                                  93
Annex 17: Cleaner Buses                                                                 102
Annex 18: Previous Fleet Test for Emissions Data Measurement                            104
Annex 19: Disbursements                                                                 107
Annex 20: Institutional Matrix                                                          109
Annex 21: Advisory Committee - Climate Friendly Vehicles Testing Program            111
Annex 22: Footnotes                                                             113
MAP(S)



MEXICO
Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit in the Latin America
and Caribbean Region (LCSES).
Date: September 26, 2002                          Team Leader: Walter Vergara
Sector Director: John Redwood                     Sector(s): General transportation sector (40%), General
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade      industry and trade sector (30%), General information and
Project ID: P059161                               communications sector (20%), Central government
Focal Area: G                                     administration (10%)
Theme(s): Climate change (P), Environmental policies
and institutions (P), Pollution management and
environmental health (P), Other environment and natural
resources management (S)
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [X] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan (USsm):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             2.40            0.00          2.40
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACLITY                                     5.80            0.00          5.80
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                             3.00            0.00          3.00
SHELL FOUNDATION                                                1.00           0.00          1.00
Total:                                                         12.20           0.00         12.20
Borrower/Recipient: BCO NAL DE OBRAS Y SERV PUBLICOS, SNC
Cofinancing will be provided by the Shell Foundation and World Resources Institute (US$1 million,
annex 5) and local sources of recipient country. The local private sources include bus manufacturers and
fuel suppliers which have made the necessary commitments.
Responsible agency: SECRETARIA DE MEDIO AMBIENTE DEL GDF
Secretaria de Medio Ambiente ( Environment Secretariat for Mexico City)
Address: Plaza de la Constitucion No.1, 3er Piso. Col. Centro
Contact Person: Claudia Sheinbaum
Tel: (52) 555 5420 117          Fax: (52) 555 512 2688          Email: Lelena@Dgpa.Df.Gob.Mx
Other Agency(ies):
Secretaria de Transporte y Vialidad (Secretariat of Transport for Mexico City)
Address: Versalles No. 13, Col. Juarez. Delegacion Cuauhtemoc.
Contact Person: Mario Zepeda
Tel: (52) 555 208 0131          Fax: (52) 555 5146663           Email: zm.mario@hotmail.com
Sistema de Transportes Electricos (Electric Bus Operator)
Address: Municipio Libre Oriente No. 402, 3er Piso. Col. San Andres Tetepilco
Contact Person: Florencia Serrania
Tel: (52) 555 539 1584          Fax: (52) 555 392649           Email: director@ste.df.gob.mx



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003      2004       2005     2006:      2007
Annual     1.66      2.87      0.93       0.12      0.22
Cumulative     1.66      4.53      5.46      5.58      5.80
Project implementation period: 2002-2007
OCS PAD F . R.. M.DZ
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to contribute to the development of policies and measures that will
assist in a long-term modal shift toward climate-friendly, more efficient and less polluting, less carbon
intensive transport in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). Specifically, the project will
support aspects of the recently completed Third. Air Quality Management Plan (AQM-EII 2002-2010)
(Programa para Mejorar la Calidad del Aire en la ZMVM 2002-2010) which are consistent with the
GEF Operational Program on Sustainable Transport (OP-11) and the Metropolitan Climate Change
Action Plan (MCCAP)1.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
To ascertain, whether or not the project has achieved its development objective, and as broad
performance indicators, the following actions would have been carried out: (more specific performance
indicators are included in Annex 1)
(a) the harmonization of sector planning in the environment, transport and urban development as it
relates to air quality measures;
(b) the adoption and initiation of a Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan in transport and associated
measures;
(c) the adoption of organizational and barrier removal measures to facilitate the implementation of
sustainable climate friendly transport strategies;
(d) the development and execution of a sound, scientifically designed test protocol of global relevance
capable of yielding emissions and cost data of use for better decision making about this type of air
pollution abatement measures;
(e) the incorporation of climate change issues in the design and operation of transport projects in the
MCMA;
(f) the increased use of high capacity vehicles,.non-motorized modes of transport as well as the increased
public awareness of the advantages of transport corridors and climate friendly technologies; and
(g) an effective project management.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19289    Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/16/2002
The project is part of a 10 year multi-sector program by the metropolitan authorities (State and City),
outlined in the AQM-LI; 2002-2010 that seeks to contribute to improvements in air quality in the MCMA
through the reduction in the emission of criteria pollutants, therefore reducing human exposure and
improving health indicators for the large area population. The program focuses on reductions in
emissions of particulate matter, ozone precursors and emissions of greenhouse gases from mobile and
fixed sources in the MCMA, of which the transport sector has been shown to be a large contributor. The
GEF proposal makes part of the larger effort to achieve these reductions and harnonize said efforts with
investments that would mitigate greenhouse gases from the transport sector. The effort supported by the
proposed GEF operation will promote the introduction of climate-friendly measures and technologies that
would contribute to the sustainability of the transport sector.
The Problem of Air Pollution in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area
Air pollution in the MCMA is a serious health and environmental concem. The MCMA constitutes one
- 3 -



of the largest metropolitan areas in the world'. There are 19 million inhabitants living in the MCMA',
equivalent to about 19% of the country's entire population, which are being exposed to high levels of
ozone and particulate matter. The MCMA produces more than a third of the national gross domestic
product (GDP) and generates, in the process, 4 million tons of solid waste per year, and several million
tons of atmospheric pollutants. Thus, it constitutes the largest area-source of pollutants in the country and
it is one of the largest in the Americas. Current projections indicate that population will continue to grow
at an annual rate of 1.9% in the short term. Demand for services and energy however, are expected to
increase at even higher rates. This will result, unless controlled, in higher pollution loads to already
burdened air and watersheds.
Air pollution in the MCMA is mostly due to (a) a high concentration of ozone, produced by the reaction
of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and nitrogen oxides in the presence of sunlight, (b) carbon
monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and hydrocarbons emitted by vehicles fueled with gasoline and
diesel, (c) sulfur dioxide emitted by industrial processes and commercial services using liquid industrial
fuels, and (d) particulate matter (PM) in the form of particles smaller than 10 microns (PM10) emitted by
several sources using diesel and other fuels as well as stationary and natural sources.
Third Air Quality Management Plan (Programa para Mejorar la Calidad del Aire ZMVM 2002-2010)
In response to the current challenge, the Mexican authorities have been working on air quality
improvements for several years and the results of previous work have produced important, albeit not yet
sufficient progress. In 2001, the Mexican authorities decided to continue the work already initiated, first
and foremost through the formulation, design and implementation of the third Air Quality Management
in the MCMA (2002-2010). Multi-disciplinary teams were organized that included some of the top
government and technical authorities in each field (e. g.; Secretaries of Transport, Urban Development
and Environment). The thrust of the effort was: "to improve health indicators through reductions in
exposure of populations to airborne pollutants". The AQM-LH was published on February 11, 2002.
The AQM-Il provides the strategic framework to guide necessary immediate interventions, and to
further define, the goals and priorities, while identifying barriers and required reforms. The plan
coalesces a significant amount of disperse information on air quality issues in Mexico City. These
valuable materials have been integrated into a comprehensive assessment providing the basis for a
long-term strategy to address air quality in the MCMA. Priority under the AQM-UI is given to efforts to
reduce particulates and ozone, both of which have been shown to have unsustainable impacts on health
and the environment. While the linkage between particulates and mortality has been clearly established,
the magnitude of the ozone issue (320 days exceeding the norms in the MCMA) and its documented
impacts on health require that both criteria pollutants be given priority. The plan identifies the transport
sector as a priority area for efforts to curb air pollution.
The Bank has assisted the formulation of the plan through: (a) support to the preparation of the 1998
emissions inventory, (b) quantification of the health impacts associated with poor air quality, (c)
formulation of harmonization measures that could jointly address local air quality issues and emissions of
greenhouse gases (climate change), (d) modeling of the air quality in the metropolitan area and modeling
of the measures, and (e) economic assessment of alternative courses of action (alternative control
scenarios). This effort was undertaken during 1999-2002 as part of sector work that would provide the
basis for specific interventions that could be funded through the Bank as a continuation of the First Air
Quality and Transport Project. This first project has been completed in a satisfactory manner.
Health Costs of Air Pollution
-4 -



While previous efforts in air quality management have yielded dramatic reductions in lead concentration,
emissions of CO and sulfur dioxide, ozone concentrations have remained high, often exceeding
acceptable levels. PM levels are also high along heavily congested zones and in areas under the direct
influence of wind erosion of denuded land. Abatement of these contaminants remains a first priority for
subsequent efforts since they have been directly linked to respiratory illnesses and mortality.
A health impacts study, recently completed with Bank support as part of the assistance to the formulation
of the air quality management plan, provides an economic valuation of benefits from reducing pollution
in the MCMA. For purposes of the study, the main economic rationale for controlling emissions was the
welfare gain from improvements in air quality. The health hazards associated with ozone and PM10 were
reviewed because these substances are the most important in terms of violating pollution standards. Their
concentration levels depend on the amount and location of emitted pollutants, geographical
characteristics, meteorological conditions, and atmospheric chemistry and transport. The chemistry of
ozone formation is complicated and nonlinear: under certain conditions, an increase in NOx emissions
could reduce ozone concentrations. On the other hand, PMIO pollution stems mainly from direct
emissions of particles, and from reactions of NOx, and S02 with other substances in the atmosphere.
Principal emission sources are construction activities, transport vehicles, forest fires, open-air refuse
burning, some manufacturing industries, and re-suspension of road dust.
The study concludes that the annual benefits of a 10 percent reduction in ozone and PM10 is $759
million. High and low estimates of the value of a 10 percent reduction in PM10 are $1,607 million and
$154 million, respectively. Obtaining air quality compliance (AQS 1) offers benefits of approximately $2
billion per year, with high and low estimates of benefits of some $4 billion and $400 million,
respectively. These results highlight the urgency of dealing with the air quality issue in the MCMA (For
additional details please see "Improving Air Quality in Metropolitan Mexico City. An Economic
Valuation". World Bank, February 2002).
Linkage to the Air Quality and Transport Project and Timing of the GEF Project
A proposed Bank loan ("Second Air Quality and Transport Project") is being prepared as part of the
program of assistance from the Bank in support of the goals of the AQM-IU. Its project development
objective is to reduce the pollution load into the air shed of the MCMA contributed by the transport
sector (both passenger and cargo), while improving the safety and efficiency of urban transport
management at the metropolitan level. This will be sought through enhancing the use of high capacity
transport modes, including the inter-modal substitution from small to high capacity vehicles and
strengthening the control of emissions from cargo transport. The project will focus on the development of
passenger transport corridors. These passenger transport corridors would consist of exclusive busways,
transfer stations and a strengthened linkage to the metro in the metropolitan area (Metropolitan Transport
Corridors). However, there are a number of policies and measures that need to be enacted and options to
be examined to make viable the long-term modal shift intended for the transport system. This long-term
modal shift is also central to the goals of the Integrated Transport and Road Plan (2002-2006) (Plan
Integral de Transporte y Vialidad (2002-2006)). However, the proposed Bank loan can not proceed
without the removal of these barriers. This is one of the specific objectives of the GEF project.
Commitment to the objectives of the proposed loan remains strong but it requires the removal of barriers
and also the completion of the studies that design the physical infrastructure for the corridors including
any safeguard issues.
This GEF project, which would be processed before the loan, would assist in this process by facilitating
- 5 -



the adoption of policies and measures needed to achieve the loan's objectives. During the project, options
will be identified and analyzed, and reforms on regulatory issues will be formulated with the goal of
removing barriers for the effective implementation of the proposed corridors. In this context the GEF
project is also a platform for policy dialogue on sustainable transport. From a climate change perspective,
efforts to promote a modal shift are anticipated to result in reductions of greenhouse gas emissions per
passenger-km; also support for non-motorized transport and for the use of climate friendly vehicles (high
efficiency, high occupancy) would result, when utilized in further reductions in emissions of greenhouse
gases.
The GEF project however would stand on its own even if the loan does not materialize, as it will
contribute to the development of background data, studies and review of policy options required for the
reform process and would contribute to the acquisition of information of global value. The authorities
have a strong commitment to implement the Metropolitan Transport Corridors even in the absence of
Bank funding. In any event, the proposed activities under the loan could not be initiated before these
preparatory activities take place, addressing regulatory and market barriers. Hence the timing of the GEF
project, which primarily addresses the removal of these barriers. Also, the earlier implementation of the
GEF project is expected to maintain the momentum achieved during the sector work in the formulation of
the AQM-fII and continue to yield policy developments that are necessary for the proposed loan to be
effective. The continuum of the GEF project and the proposed loan is further described in Annex 13.
Preparatory activities for the loan are being supported through a recently approved PHRD grant for
US$1.3 million, which is intended to finance the design of two metropolitan corridors, the design of a
bus priority scheme within the MCMA and the design of the air quality monitoring network (RAMA).
The identification of alternatives for metropolitan corridors is being financed through a German Trust
Fund for US$76 thousand. The PHRD grant is in the process of being launched and together with
decisions being taken by the Government authorities, will constitute the basis for the loan. As part of the
preparation activities for the loan, the analysis of impacts of the corridors on job generation and any
potential safeguard issues will be addressed.
Linkage to Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
The CAS identifies three core themes for World Bank Group Assistance to Mexico - social
sustainability, removing obstacles to sustainable growth, and effective public governance. The CAS also
includes, as part of the environmental agenda, promotion of institutional development, decentralization of
environmental management, and mainstreaming of global issues in order to comply with international
agreements. The CAS confirms that some progress was made in improving air quality in metropolitan
Mexico City area through the finalization of a third Air Quality Management Plan and it is also the base
to set the stage of new support programs in this region that affects the health of some 15 million people.
The CAS specifically identifies climate change as an issue of relevance in Mexico due to: (a) the
impacts and needs to adapt to these changes (vulnerability to climate change and adaptation needs), and
(b) the opportunities for Mexico to participate in Carbon Finance and eventually the Clean Development
Mechanism (CDM) as a tool to promote sustainable development. Mexico has already signed the Kyoto
Protocol, which deals with climate change and the control of anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse
gases, including methane. The proposed project supports all of the above sector goals. It will above all,
contribute to the goals of sustainable development by supporting sustainable transport strategies,
improving service delivery in the transport sector, supporting development of an efficient transport sector
and contributing to institutional strengthening efforts.
- 6 -



la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project is consistent with the objectives of GEF Operational  Program  11: Promoting
Environmentally Sustainable Transport (OP 11). Under the OP, a first approach would promote the
application, implementation, use and dissemination of commercial and near-commercial
climate-friendly technologies where a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions would result. A second
approach of this strategy is to reduce costs of prospective technologies that are not yet commercially
viable, to enhance their commercial viability. Under this component, GEF attempts to enhance the
viability of new emerging sustainable transport measures by supporting demonstrations of measures
where the primary market is in recipient countries. Support under this component is important for
solutions to transport problems in large metropolis. GEF would also support awareness building,
assessment and analysis, institutional reform and strengthening, policy adjustments, regulatory
measures and strategic transport and land-use planning. Information dissemination and public awareness
campaign will be integral to widespread successful examples to raise the acceptance of climate friendly
transport options.
The global objective of the program is to reduce the ernission of GHG from passenger ground transport
systems in large metropolitan areas. The introduction of policies and measures supported through the
project in the MCMA, will contribute to reductions in the emissions per vehicle of GHGs. In the longer
term, the project is intended to promote a shift to a sustainable, cleaner, less GHG emitting ground
transport system for the MCMA. This shift complemented with long-term promotion of public
transportation is expected to result in substantial global impacts. The results of the field test of bus
technologies will have global application.
Climate Change Related Policies and Institutions in Mexico
Mexico has played an important role in the Climate Change Convention and the subsidiary meetings. It
is the first country in Latin America to submit the Second Communication. Mexico is also one of the
two largest emitters of GHG in the region and a country that has shown substantial vulnerabilities to the
impacts from Climate Change.
The preparation of the Second National Communication of Mexico on Climate Change began in 2000
and was officially issued at COP7 in Morocco (2002). The document includes the updating of the
National Greenhouse Gas Inventory for the period 1994-1998, scenarios of future emissions, assessment
of mitigation policies, scientific and technical research, Activities Implemented Jointly (AU), the
Inventory for land use and land use change for 1998 (annex to the communication), the process of
validation of the National Forest Inventory and, International Cooperation. In this framework, the
development of projects on local and global pollution in Mexico City are of great importance for
climate change, given the relationship between improving air quality and the necessary reduction of the
burning of fossil fuels in the Metropolitan Area of the Valley of Mexico and the significant contribution
that the Metropolitan Area makes in terms of total emissions of GHGs.
Parallel to the communications to the convention, Mexico has launched an effort to strengthen its
institutional capacity through the development of a Climate Change Office and the organization of a
Climate Change Inter-secretarial Committee. The Office has been supported through an IDF
(Institutional Development Fund) grant that enabled the completion of baselines for the energy, forestry
and industrial sectors. The IDF also supported the identification of economic instruments for the
internalization of climate change concerns in economic planning. This work is being used as the basis
for a proposed National Strategic Study on the optimal use of the Clean Development Mechanism in
- 7 -



Mexico. The Federal government published the Climate Change National Strategy in April 2000,
nevertheless it is not considered a regulatory or legislative tool. The Environmental and Natural
Resources Secretariat (SEMARNAT) internal regulation code specifies the climate change duties of the
National Institute of Ecology (INE) regarding the studies and research, as well as the National
Communications.
In April 1997 Mexico established the Climate Change Intersecretarial Committee, integrated by
different state secretariats (e.g Energy, Environment and Natural Resources, Social Development,
Foreign Affairs etc.). Among the committee's principal duties are: (a) The elaboration and presentation
of the climate change national policy to the Executive, (b) the elaboration of the national strategies and
supervision of its implementation, (c) updating and developing the legal framework of policy regarding
climate change, and (d) the promotion and implementation of climate change laws. These duties are
expected to transform this committee into a climate change commission.
At the local level, the SMA is responsible for the implementation of Climate Change policy of the city
in coordination with federal authorities. In fact, the authorities are proposing to develop a Climate
Change Action Plan for the metropolitan area. The Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan has been
highlighted by the current administration to underscore the relevance of climate change issues which
had traditionally been ignored and to facilitate the allocation of resources for this purpose. The MCCAP
will be an institutional and regulatory basis enabling the decision making process on climate change
related projects undertaken by the Mexican government, such as the establishment of metropolitan
transport corridors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Sector issues
Need for a better harmonization of sector policies on the issue of Air Quality and on Climate
Change
The metropolitan authorities have adopted comprehensive sector policies that already identify priority
areas in transport, air quality and urban development. These are: Integrated Transport Program
(2002-2006) (Programa Integral de Transporte y Vialidad), the General Urban Development Program
(2002-2006) (Programa General de Desarrollo Urbano) and the Environmental Program (2002-2006)
(Programa de Medio Ambiente) of the City. The corresponding Plans of the State of Mexico are: the
Institutional Program of Medium Term (2000-2005) (Programa Institucional de Mediano Plazo) that
integrates all the specific transport programs, the Sectorial Urban Development Program (1999-2005)
(Programa Sectorial de Desarrollo Urbano), and the Environmental Protection Program (1999-2005)
(Programa de Protecci6n al Ambiente). However, there is a need for the sector authorities to harmonize
the different programs as these relate to the issues of transport, air quality and land use. Also, even
though awareness and activism in international fora have increased, climate change issues have not been
fully integrated into the sector planning and decision-making. Successful incorporation of
climate-friendly policies and measures will depend on the extent to which sector planning recognizes the
harmonization potential between climate change and sector policies, and on the realization of local
co-benefits from actions on climate change concerns.
Lack of coordination between the air quality, transport and urban planning strategies may result in failure
to capture gains in efficiencies or may result in sectorial actions that would be counterproductive for the
goals of the other sectors.  Transport planning strategies that are coordinated with the air quality
- 8 -



management plan would ensure that the efforts and allocation of resources of the metropolitan area may
result in higher levels of emissions of local and global pollutants are avoided. Harmonization with urban
planning would ensure that land use and transport planning are also examined from an air quality
perspective. The overall intended benefit from harmonizing these strategies is that the efforts in the
environmental front are coordinated with similar efforts in transport and land use. The harmonization of
the sector strategies and plans would result in several action plans (fiscal, institutional, legal etc.).
Implementation of this framework would necessitate the promotion of measures that will facilitate a
modal shift in the transport sector of the metropolitan area (from one based on an increasing share of
small, gasoline-based vehicles to a system based on high capacity, fuel efficient and low carbon emitting
vehicles, running along transport corridors and linked and integrated with the metro system).
To this effect, there is a need to identify and promote the adoption of an enabling policy and regulatory
environment that will permit the development of transport corridors, as a key element of the modal shift.
Transport corridors are expected to lead to a more efficient, less polluting public transport sector.
Likewise, the contamination caused by the transport sector is a problem of metropolitan dimension.
Mexico City and the State of Mexico have each their own independent institutional organizations. Even
though there is substantial across-the-board technical and institutional capacity, the coordination
between them is limited. Due to the fact that the Mexico City and the State of Mexico share an
atmospheric basin the problem is of metropolitan nature and needs to be addressed by both
administrations in a coordinated manner.
Transport Sector and Air Quality Issues
i) Lack of a sustainable business environment for public transport
The business structure of bus services in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA) has led to highly
inefficient operations, resulting in a costly, unsafe and environmentally unsustainable public transport
system. The key issues are: (a) lack of an organizational model that would facilitate efficient public
transport operation in the metropolitan area, (b) dispersed operations that hinder the effective control of
bus services and contribute to traffic congestion, (c) inefficient use of vehicles, (d) deficiencies in bus
inspection and maintenance, (e) lack of professional management among bus operators, (f) lack of
coordination between transport operations in the State of Mexico and the City, (g) a fare system which
penalizes transfers and thus discourages intermodal movements, and (h) systematic decline in the number
of metro passengers since 1989 despite a 35% network extension during that period. These barriers are
significant and require of substantial efforts at the policy and regulatory levels.
The experience of Bogota's innovative bus corridor system (see Annex 12)- as well as the achievements
of the Curitiba busways- demonstrates that the creation of the right business environment is vital for
achieving sustainable public transport services by improving their commercial viability. The Bogota
reforms included, in addition to such physical works as busways, terminals and on-line bus stations: (a) a
regulatory framework encouraging management structures that facilitate commercially efficient bus
operations, thereby providing adequate incentives for investors, (b) a payment system that provides the
adequate incentives for investors, (c) a client-friendly fare structure that is attractive to bus passengers,
and (d) transparent oversight and enforcement mechanisms. These aspects can be improved in Mexico
and would be addressed as part of the reform to the regulatory system, envisioned as the key output of the
GEF project. The Transmilenio program has resulted after one year of operation in a daily ridership of
680,000 passengers along transport corridors of very high capacity vehicles. This is a significant modal
shift.
-9-



ii) Large contribution of the transport sector to the problem of air quality
Under the Integrated Transport and Road Program (2002-2006), the transport authority of Mexico City is
attempting to address the growing demand for transport while minimizing its environmental impacts.
However, the number of vehicles in the area is high for the available infrastructure, resulting in road
congestion, large fuel consumption, unsafe conditions and high level of emissions. In particular, the
nature of the bus sector for the MCMA is of a very fragmented supply, which also results in a somewhat
chaotic provision of services. Likewise, the increasing number of private cars exacerbates traffic
congestion, which contributes to productivity losses, and higher level of emissions of criteria pollutants.
According to the recently released emission inventory and the AQM-Ell (2002-2010), the mobile sources
account for a majority of NOx emissions, 40% of HC emissions and about 36% of particulate emissions.
Table 1. Emission Inventory in the MCMA 1998 (percentage)
SECTOR          PM1o          S02         CO             NOx           HC
Stationary       16           55            0.5           13            5
sources
Area sources      8            24           1.5            5            52
Soils and       40           N/A          N/A            2             3
vegetation
Mobile sources     36           21            98           80            40
Total %         100          100           100           100          100
In addition to the large contributions to the release of local criteria pollutants, the transport sector in the
MCMA is the largest contributor of greenhouse gases (see Figure 1). Mexico, is the largest contributor
of C02 emissions (2.1%) in the Latin America region. The recently concluded COP-8, in Marrakesh,
Morocco, has again emphasized the need for urgent action to reduce anthropogenic emissions of
greenhouse gases and took actions to promote carbon finance between Annex 1 nations (developed) and
developing countries. The Kyoto Protocol has now been endorsed by a majority of the community of
nations. The carbon trade has thus been reaffirmed and emissions trading of about 700-1000 millions
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent is expected on an annual basis for the first commitment period
(2008-2012).
The 1998 energy balance for the MCMA has been calculated using the methodology and format utilized
by OLADE4. The estimates show that the MCMA consumes 592 PJ annually, for which it requires a
gross supply of 648 PJ (56 PJ are used in the transformation process). The largest user is the transport
sector, accounting for 49% of the total (292 PJ), an overwhelming fraction of which is provided through
the combustion of gasoline in motor vehicles (190 PJ)5. A GHG emission inventory was calculated on the
basis of the energy balance, following the IPCC methodology. The study estimates emissions of 44.6
million tons of C02 equivalent into the atmosphere during 1996 as a result of energy consumption. Of
those, 34.9 million tons of C02' equivalent were released as a result of fuel emissions in all sectors,
while 10.7 million tons represent emissions associated with the generation of electricity used in the
MCMA. This volume of GHG represents 10.3 % of the total national emissions for that year'. The largest
sector in terms of greenhouse gas emissions is transport with 18 million tons of C02 equivalent in 1996
and 19.6 million tons of C02 in 1998.
- 10 -



Figure 1. C02 emissions by sector and source in the MCMA (1996)
25
20                                    41     * Electricity
8-  15  29%  * Various
8   1 5                                          EC Natural Gas
10                         19%              * Diesel
|  5  0.15%          690   !    El    R        Gasoline
0.15%        6%                     E]LPG
0-
The transport sector is also the largest source of methane (CH4) and volatile organic compounds.
Methane emissions have a large radiative effect in the atmosphere, while VOCs contribute to the
generation of Ozone. Ozone itself has a warming effect of about one quarter that of C02 on a molecular
basis. As the transport sector is also the largest source of local criteria pollutants, opportunities for
harmonization of local/global pollution problems in the transport sector would have significant impacts
in both areas of concerns.
Figure 2. Direct C02 Emissions by Fuel in the MCMA (1996)
LPG
190%
Gasoline
Solid Fuels                 41%
0%
Natural Gas
21%                            Light Distillates
Fuel Oil and   13%
Gas Oil
3%



Does not take into account associated fugitive emissions or leaks.
iii) Congestion and low productivity in the transport sector
Traffic congestion affects public transport efficiency and, in addition, imposes direct and indirect costs
on the urban economy. Time lost in traffic can add up to a substantial share of a city's output as it reduces
the size of the effective labor market, imposes the need for higher inventory and more generally affects
individual productivity. In Mexico, between 1990 and 2000, the number of motor vehicles on the road
grew by 42%. At the same time, the population of Mexico's medium and large cities grew by 25%, while
the number of trips grew even faster than the population. Inefficient public space management, including
the lack of properly designed traffic signs and signals, uncontrolled vehicle parking, and inadequate
facilities for pedestrians and other non-motorized traffic, contribute significantly to the congestion
problem. Commercial transport of freight is affected by congestion in central business districts, poorly
maintained road surfaces and inadequate terminal facilities. In addition, in many cities, the aging fleet of
highly polluting diesel buses will soon require replacement if air quality is to be managed effectively.
The municipal governments are poorly equipped to manage theses challenges. This results in limited
coordination in intermodal services. Second, Mexican municipalities have limited land use planning
powers. Third, the allocation of responsibilities between states and municipalities is inefficient, which
makes long-range land use planning difficult. Finally, municipalities have limited resources with which
to fund investment in transport infrastructure. The MCMA typifies the difficulties mentioned.
iv) Gradual carbonization (increase of greenhouse gas emissions per passenger-km) of the
transport sector: need for a modal shift to reduce emission of criteria pollutants and greenhouse
gases
The energy and greenhouse gas inventories for the MCMA indicate a gradual increase in its energy
intensity. This finding is evident in the analysis of the modal evolution in the public transport system in
the MCMA during the period 1986-2000 ( Fig. 3) which shows that both the metro system and the bus
have lost share of the total public transport market, having been displaced by smaller vehicles. The
gradual shift away from large capacity vehicles is, in part, an unintended effect of the atomization of
services in the transport sector and the relatively poor regulatory system. This is an unwelcome
development, especially in such a congested and polluted region as the Mexico City Metropolitan Area,
where it has generated inefficiencies from a transport and environment perspective by adding to traffic
congestion and reducing public transport productivity. It has resulted in higher emissions and exposure to
criteria pollutants (and associated health impacts), caused increased releases of greenhouse gases, and
has been linked to increasing accident rates. Finally, it has contributed to the inability of the rail mass
transit system (essentially the metro) to attract passengers to its installed infrastructure. The Mexican
authorities want to reverse this trend and promote measures that will aid the modal shift from small
vehicles to large buses and the metro.
However, shifting passengers from private cars to public transportation facilities - or convincing new car
owners to continue using public transportation -- is not an easy task. Bus and metro riding is often
uncomfortable and has an unattractive image with many residents of the MCMA, as evidenced by the
declining metro ridership over the last decade. Lack of parking places at metro stations, and particularly
the lack of efficient links between bus and metro routes pose additional difficulties, while the extension
of the metro lines is very expensive and would not provide for full coverage of the needs in the MCMA.
- 12 -



Fig 3. Evolution of Modal Share in the Public Transport System of the
MCMA
.Et t 14%  _Metro
High capacit      19%        21%        16%                    Light train!
modes                         !          _          9%         Trolebus
3%                    10%               _    Full size
buses
19%
Medium
capacity         42%
modes
55%    _      Small buses
53%
t   35%                           combis
6%
L o      w 4 4  ,>6%       5  3         5%     _    Taxis
Low             .^5ox                   .-; 
i5%
6%::  `1 70/6           ~~~~cars
caopdaecity  w_ .: . .       16%   ,   017%   _   16.1%
modes                                    V
1986       1989       1994       2000
Source: SMA 2002
2.2 Government Strategy
Transport Sector Strategy in the MCMA
The Comprehensive Transport Plan of the City (2002 - 2006) calls for: a) gradual elimination of
subsidies to the transport sector and restructuring of the fare system, b) integration of the transport
system with the State of Mexico and promotion of modal shift through the development of metropolitan
corridors; c) strengthening of the public transport system through the development and implementation
of bus priorities; d) reduction in the environmental load of the transport sector into the MCMA air shed;
and e) support to technology improvements in the transport sector through the introduction of better bus
and rail technologies.
The first objective supports the development of a sustainable business environment for the public
transport sector. The authorities have started the reduction of subsidies in real terms but these still
represent an important fraction of total operation costs for the bus and metro operations. On the other
hand, the Government receives substantial income from taxes on fuel consumption some of which are
-13-



channeled to environmental objectives in the city.
The control of emissions by the transport sector into the air shed of the MCMA has been initiated
through adoption of more stringent emission and vehicle standards and through the definition of
measures that would promote the integration of urban development plans and transport plans. However,
these plans are still in the early phase of development. Measures to control the number of vehicles in
areas of high congestion and traffic management measures to alleviate gridlock and the creation of
pedestrian zones in downtown areas are also being considered. Also the government intends to promote
the introduction of low emission vehicles and promote a higher level of utilization of the metro. A study
to restructure the system of bus route concessions was completed in 1999 but its recommendations have
not yet been implemented for a lack of resources.
Promotion of a modal shift is a central part of the government's strategy. The key measure under
consideration is the development of transport corridors on which high capacity, low polluting vehicles
would operate. These corridors are being conceived as measures that would make more efficient use of
infrastructure and move passengers in an integrated mode with the metro at higher speeds, lower costs
per passenger and lower emissions per passenger kilometer and, at the same time, alleviate traffic
congestion. The modal shift is expected to contribute to a reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases
per passenger kilometer.
A key element in the promotion of the modal shift will be the intended introduction of low emission,
low carbon emitting vehicles. This is being achieved through attracting ridership to the metro and the
light train line, and through plans for the introduction of novel bus technologies. New-technology buses
may also be specified for the busway corridors, but first there is a need to obtain solid information on
which to base the decision.
The government of the City conceives the air quality and transport policy as the conjunction of various
complementary elements that should facilitate the improvement of transport conditions in the City.
Environment Sector: Formulation of a long term, multi-sector, strategic framework
The AQM-Ell (2002-2010) consists of a multi-sector, metropolitan, long-term effort to address air
quality issues in the MCMA and constitutes the official government strategy for air quality in the
metropolitan area. The plan recognizes the pivotal role that the transport sector can provide in solving
the air quality issues and identifies 47 out of a total 108 measures as linking transport sector and
improvements in air quality. A key measure identified in the plan is the adoption of transport corridors
as a means to promote a modal shift. The thrust of the effort is very clear: "to improve health indicators
through reductions in exposure of populations to airborne pollutants".
The plan which has been issued jointly by the Government of Mexico City, the Government of the
Estado de Mexico and the Federal Government summarizes prior work on air quality management and
provides an updated description of the situation in the Valley in terms of air quality. It concludes that
while significant progress has been made, there are major challenges facing the goal of improved air
quality. These are linked to the expected continuous growth in demand for services and economic
activity and the difficult nature of the many dispersed sources of pollution in the area. Transport sector
is identified as a key sector for immediate action. The plan also summarizes information available on
the impacts on health from air pollution (drawing from the reports prepared with Bank and GEF PDF-B
assistance).
The plan updates the emissions inventory (also prepared with Bank assistance) and establishes goals for
- 14 -



the 10 year duration of the program. These goals are provided in quantitative form and summarized are:
* A substantial reduction in ozone concentrations and exposure (eliminating any concentrations above
200 IMECA points) and reducing average concentrations significantly;
*   Reduce the concentration of PMIO and 2.5;
*   Eliminate violations to the norm on CO concentrations;
* Reduce average concentrations of S02.
To achieve these goals, the plan establishes a 10 year program consisting of 108 measures. Key parts of
the program are:
*   Reductions of emissions generated by the transport sector;
* Reduction of emissions from industry and service;
* Conservation of natural resources and forest cover in the Metropolitan Area;
* Integration of policies and plans in air quality, transport and urban planning;
* Reduction of exposures to high concentrations of pollutants;
* Promotion of environmental education and awareness and technology development;
* Harmonization of plans to address air quality and control of emissions of greenhouse gases.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1 Sector Issues to be addressed by the project
The project would address the major sector issues in the following manner:
* The need for a better harmonization of sector policies on the issue of air quality and climate
change will be addressed through the harmonization of current sector plans and support to the
development and implementation of a Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan.
* Lack of institutional coordination between the governments of the City of Mexico and of the
State of Mexico will be addressed through the creation of a technical committee for the
implementation of the project. The different institutions will have a representative by jurisdiction
(State, City, Federation) at the committee. It is going to be chaired by the SMA. The institutions that
will participate are the following: Secretary of Transport (Secretaria de Transporte y Vialidad)
(SETRAVI), Secretary of Urban Development and Housing (Secretarfa de Desarrollo Urbano y
Vivienda) (SEDUVI), Electric Surface Transport System (Sistema de Transportes Eldctricos) (STE),
Bus Network (Red de Transporte de Pasajeros del DF) (RTP), and the Metro System (Sistema de
Transporte Colectivo) (STC), of the City .The Secretary of Ecology (Secretarfa de Ecologfa)(SE) and
Secretary of Communications and Transport (Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y Transportes) (SCT) of
the State of Mexico as well as the National Institute of Ecology (Instituto Nacional de Ecologia )
(INE) of the federal government. The World Resources Institute (WRI) will participate also.
* Lack of a sustainable business environment for public transport will be addressed through the
support to studies and measures to strengthen the sustainability of the public transport sector,
including the adoption of business practices, organizational measures and incentives that would
promote the transport corridors. A number of measures are being considered that would facilitate the
modal shift from small vehicles to larger, energy efficient, low polluting vehicles and transport
systems, with the ultimate goal of increasing the share in passenger transport of efficient, low
polluting means of transport. This modal shift would result in a less carbon-intensive transport
system and is intended to divert passengers from small inefficient vehicles toward the metro and
full-size buses.
-15 -



*   The Large contribution of the transport sector to the problem of air quality will be addressed in
the long term through measures that will enable a significant modal shift as discussed in the previous
point. The intended modal shift will also contribute to address the gradual carbonization of the sector
through the intended reduction in carbon emission intensity as well as promote a more efficient
(less congested) system along the proposed corridors.
*   Global need for a comparative field test of low-carbon emitting vehicles. While these efforts are
underway, there is a need to field test the types of advanced vehicles that could be used as a
complementary measure to the modal shift, to capture gains in greenhouse gas emission reductions.
An alternative is the hybrid system which allows for improved combustion efficiency  in particular
when heavy traffic is present, as is the case in urban environments. In this context, OP-1I emphasizes
location as well as technology. The MCMA, given its size, location and character of its air pollution
problem, constitutes a prime candidate to assess and promote the commercial viability of cleaner
transport systems. Complemented with long-term modal shifts to public transportation, the global
climate impacts could be significant. The GEF funding would support the incremental costs
associated with a comparative field test of bus technologies, which could be used to substantiate
relative advantages and emission performances, under real traffic situations in a large metropolitan
area.
Mexico City is an appropriate venue for this test given: (a) the magnitude of the air quality problem,
(b) the just completed comprehensive Third Air Quality Management Plan, (c) the availability of a
modeling tool, focused on the characteristics of the metropolitan area to simulate and evaluate
impacts of the proposed measures, (d) the presence of bus manufacturers, and (e) available data on
local and greenhouse gas emissions (inventories) that provide the current baseline. In particular, the
test results will greatly benefit from the availability of the Multiscale Climate and Chemistry
Model, recently adopted by the metropolitan authorities to simulate the impact on air quality and
human exposures to specific air quality measures, developed during the assistance to the
formulation of the air quality management plan. The field test will enable decision making on use of
alternative bus technologies. In this respect it is similar to the GEF funded fuel cell test. The results
of this test will be of value to other high altitude cities, such as Bogota and Quito in the region and
is being developed in close coordination with a similar test under design in Santiago de Chile, with
GEF support. The test protocol will be ready by CEO endorsement.
Clean technologies are adopted when they offer a high benefit (emissions reduction) to cost ratio.
Calculating a carbon offset cost (in dollars per ton) requires knowledge of the operating costs per
mile (along with other fixed costs), which can only be measured through the long term field testing
of the vehicle in real world (revenue) operation. Measuring these costs are essential to comparing
the cost effectiveness of these technologies and to helping other cities estimate their own
environmental cost-benefits. The field test will yield data on emissions information for the different
types of buses and also provide data on bus operation and maintenance. These will be useful to
compare with the operating costs from other bus field tests in other cities (New York, Santiago and
Copenhagen). The results of these field tests will help people around the world assess how different
technologies might fit into their cities long term bus fleet planning.
- 16 -



Table 2. Alternative bus technologies (see Annex 17) (**).
Technology-Based        Capital Cost         Total Cost       % C02 Equivalent       Cost ($/ton) of   Relative Impact on
Strategy                                                     Reduction        Carbon Equivalent      local criteria
Reductions           pollutants
LPG Vehicles (*)           Low          Minimal to negative   - At least 15% for  Minimal to negative      Moderate
due to lower fuel cost  gasoline and diesel  for diesel and gasoline
__________________   ______________replacem ent
Natural Gas Vehicles  Conversion-$1500 to  Minimal to negative  -15%-20%   for     Minimal to negative  Zero emissions of
$4000;        due to lower fuel cost gasoline replacement; for gasoline; high for  non-methane HC or
New-20-40% higher    (gasoline); high for  -low for diesel          diesel              PMIO
than diesel buses        diesel          replacement (I)
Hybrid Electric    -50%-150% higher   Operating costs should   At least 15%;     Good at present to  Lower emissions of
Vehicles         than Diesel at low  be lower, total costs  potentially higher  potentially very good  PM1O, VOCs and
volumes; may be   may be comparable to  (30%) depending on                             NOx
equivalent costs once      Diesel           driving cycles
in commercial
production                                                  _
Fuel Cells (*)    1000% or more than         High           Modest at present;  Very high at present to Zero for the vehicles
diesel                            could exceed 70-80%  potentially very good i
in future depending on      future
source of H2
Diesel                low                 low                Baseline               low                Baseline
(*) Field test of LPG and Fuel Cell buses is not supported by this project; however, the field test under component c) will be coordinated with the
fuel cell test, is being organized by the same agency (STE) with support under a GEF project, implemented through UNDP.
(I) However, recent test from Australia indicate a reduction of 17%-25% for diesel replacement; in addition, substantial noise reduction has been
achieved in diesel displacement by CNG.
The infornation regarding Table 2 comes from the final report produced by the State and Territorial Air Pollution Administrators
(STAPPA) and the Association of Local Air Pollution Control Officials (ALAPCO), titied "Reducing Greenhouse Gases and Air
Pollution. A Menu of Harmonized Options', of October 1999.
(#7 The findings of the ALAPCO study have been questioned by some and should be used with caution.
3.2 Strategic Choices.
*    Implementation of modal shift versus investing in additional throughways. The project assists
the development of the concept of public transport corridors as a tool to improve the efficiency of
existing infrastructure (modified to conform to the corridor concept) as opposed to the continuation
of the current trends (with gradual gains in the use of low capacity vehicles). This choice is at the
root of a vision of development for metropolitan area, that places emphasis on people instead of
vehicles.
*     Transport corridors        versus expansion        of metro.       The project also      supports the concept of
expansion of the reach of the metro system instead of its actual physical expansion, through
integrated corridors as this choice is anticipated to cost about one tenth of the equivalent, were the
metro system be expanded.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project includes six components. The components provide an architecture to the project, going from
a cross sectorial linkage (component a), to the definition of an enabling environment for the transport
sector (component b), to actions in the field that would complement regulatory activities with
information on technology options (component c). This is complemented with technical assistance to
- 17-



strengthen existing capacity for the execution of the project (component d) and an effort to disseminate
results achieved (component e).
a) Harmonization of sector strategies on air quality issues and Integrated Climate Action Plan for
Transport (CAP) in the MCMA ($0.8 million with a $0.4 million GEF grant).
This component will support efforts to: a) facilitate the process of integration of strategies between the
air quality (the air quality management plan), urban development plans (land use plan) and transport
sector plans in order to facilitate the adoption of harmonized policies on the air quality area; b) assess
urban development models as linked to the process of air quality management, review travel forecasting
model used by SETRAVI and model interactions of transport activity with land use; and c) assist in the
development, evaluation and monitoring of the Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan as it relates to
the transport sector. It is anticipated the plan will be adopted under the project by the end of PY2. The
project will finance consultancy studies and equipment.
b) Definition of an enabling environment to facilitate the implementation of sustainable transport
strategies ($4.8 million with a $2.9 million GEF grant).
The project will support a review of management and business organization measures that may be
required to promote the adoption, design and use of corridor infrastructure, including a system of
business organization, the concessions for specific bus line operations and the structuring of integrated
fares. The component will also fund technical assistance to identify, improve and facilitate the adoption
of economic incentives and regulatory system reforms required to overcome barriers to adoption of high
capacity and non-motorized transport. This component will support the reform of public transport
regulations for the proposed corridors. In addition, an institutional framework for the corridors will be
defined including the integration with the metro and measures to promote metro rider-ship will be
identified. This component will also finance an assessment of organizational measures proposed by the
Mexico City Authorities to improve air quality and public transport efficiency. The studies will have a
metropolitan character and would be commissioned after endorsement by the SMA, SETRAVI and the
Secretary of Communications and Transport of the State of Mexico.
This component will also support an action plan for non-motorized transport (promotion of bicycle use).
The objective of this action plan is to promote the use of bicycles as a mode of transport and aims at
diverting commuters from motorized modes, especially private cars. Emphasis would be placed on
campaigns to (a) expand bicycle use by improving its image and explaining its advantages, (b) raise
traffic safety awareness, and (c) provide incentives to schools, employers, building managers, car park
operators, and the Metro to provide bicycle parking on their premises. In addition options will be
considered to provide improved infrastructure for non-motorized transport such as bikeways and traffic
calming schemes, and a regulatory regime will be prepared to improve the traffic safety and personal
security for the uses of non-motorized transport. The action plan will be designed based on the large body
of experiences (Europe, Bogota, Lima, Santiago, others) and literature to ensure that the resources
available will be used as effectively as possible. An estimate of the potential impacts on GHG emissions
associated with the concept of the corridors is included as Annex 4 (Incremental Costs and Global
Environmental Benefits).
The project will finance consultancy services and technical assistance. The outputs of this component
will facilitate the adoption of measures required to implement the corridors which would be funded
under the proposed Second Air Quality and Transport Project. The outputs however are important even
if the loan does not materialize.
- 18-



c) Field Test of Climate-Friendly High Capacity Vehicles ($4.8 million with a GEF grant of $1.6
million).
This component will support a comparative pilot field test for alternative bus and fuel technologies
(hybrid and CNG) and modern and standard diesel vehicles to test the comparative and absolute
technical, economic, and environmental viability and climate advantages under typical operations in the
MCMA. The testing vehicles will operate on a route, chosen to represent the average conditions of the
metropolitan area, in terms of supply, demand, physical and topographic characteristics, and service
providers. The buses will be operating on normal conditions, and their emissions would be regularly
measured under a scientifically designed and statistically representative test protocol (the test protocol,
including sample size, has been designed during project preparation by STE with assistance from MIT,
University of West Virginia, the University of Toronto, and the Institute for Transportation Studies at
the University of Berkeley, (Annex 16)).
This field test will consist of real time measurement of the following parameters: (a) emissions (local
and global) resulting from current and anticipated driving cycles, (b) real operating costs, (c) fuel
efficiency per type of vehicles, and other indicators of sustainable transport (Annex 9) with assistance
from an ad-hoc high level steering committee with significant experience from institutions such as MIT.
The test is aimed at: (a) developing a scientifically test protocol adapted to Mexico City's conditions that
can produce significant data on: emission reductions, fuel efficiency, and indicators of operating and
maintenance costs, (b) using the results of the pilot test to simulate the level of reductions in local and
global pollutants that could be obtained assuming various scenarios of adoption of these technologies,
and (c) enabling cost-effectiveness and possibly cost-benefit analysis to determine the extent or rate to
which the adoption of these technologies is justified compared to other air quality measures. The test is
linked to other components in that it complements regulatory and institutional activities that would
enable the development of corridors with the examination of alternative buses to be used in the corridors,
to reduce GHG emnissions in the transport system. A part of the field test this component also includes the
provision of an essential framework for evaluation of alternative vehicle options. The project will fund
the cost of the testing and monitoring protocols including the buses and the operation and maintenance
costs.
d) Technical assistance and training for incorporation of climate change and air quality
considerations in the design and analysis of transport strategies (US$0.8 million; funded with a
US$0.4 million GEF grant).
This component will finance technical assistance and capacity building in order to incorporate climate
and environmental considerations in the design of transport projects. Technical assistance, capacity
building and training will be provided in the following aspects (the project will finance the costs of
consultancies):
a) Review and support to the restructuring of legal functions for SETRAVI as related to transport
planning;
b) Cost-benefit analysis and modeling using inter-alia, the data produced by the field test and
including considerations of infrastructure costs, and local and global environmental impacts, using
the data produced by the field test (component c). These assessments will include the comparative
cleaner bus test and the metropolitan transport corridors. The benefits and costs of these measures
will be compared with the benefits and costs of rationalizing existing infrastructure;
- 19-



c) Development of methodologies for measurement and verification of emissions from Metropolitan
Area public ground transport, including provision of training to bus operators, mechanics, and
maintenance staff on the operation of the buses used in the pilot field test;
d) Training to transfer knowledge about testing procedures and potential of tested technologies, such
as training for contracting and coordinating market surveys and institutional capacity building for
the executing agency (SMA); and
e) Review and development of emission standards and transport regulations proposals to be applied
in the Metropolitan Area.
The outcomes of this component will be used also for the establishment of the corridors.
e) Public Awareness and Dissemination ($0.3 million, $0.165 million GEF grant).
This component will support the design of a public campaign with respect to the impacts of sustainable
transport strategies on climate change, other environmental and health impacts, outlining the advantages
and objectives of transport corridors as well as benefits from the use of high capacity vehicles and
non-motorized modes of transport . This component will also support the dissemination of technical
information produced by the project and will promote and finance workshops and stakeholder
meetings.
J) Project Management ($ 0.7 million, $0.335 million GEF grant).
This component will support the management of the project activities, including monitoring and
evaluation. The project will finance management costs in the formn of consultancy services and travel.
The implementation agency will be the SMA of the City.
Indicative         Bank     % of     GEF      % of
Component                            Costs    % of   financing  Bank   financing  GEF
(US$M)   Total   (US$M)   financing  (US$M)  financing
Harmonization of sector strategies and Integrated  0.80  6.6  0.00       0.0     0.40     6.9
Climate Action Plan (CAP) for the MCMA
Enabling environment to facilitate the        4.80     39.3    0.00       0.0     2.90    50.0
implementation of sustainable transport strategies
Field Test of Climate-Friendly High Capacity  4.80     39.3    0.00       0.0     1.50    25.9
Vehicles and action plan for non-motorized
transport
Incorporation of climate change and air quality  0.80   6.6    0.00       0.0    0.40      6.9
considerations in the design and analysis of
transport startegies
Public Awareness and Dissemination            0.30      2.5    0.00       0.0    0.17      2.9
Project Management                            0.70      5.7    0.00       0.0    0.43      7.4
Total Project Costs  12.20    100.0    0.00      0.0     5.80    100.0
Total Financing Required  12.20    100.0    0.00      0.0     5.80    100.0
Replicability
The proposed project has a significant replication potential. Specifically, Mexico City will be the first
Latin American city establishing a Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan and has in that sense a
pioneer and exemplary function which can be replicated, especially in cities with comparable problems
of pollution caused by an inefficient transport system. The replication strategy would be based on the
- 20 -



following:
(i) Several Latin American cities are interested in urban transport reforms along the lines in Bogota and
the experience in Mexico will serve to confirm the applicability in metropolitan areas of the concept of
transport corridors. The Mexico Project will provide a practical example on how to reduce pollution,
address climate change and improve accessibility and sustainability to the transport system.
(ii) Component B will lay the basis for a sustainable transport strategy focusing on structural reforms of
public transport supply. Modal shift to large capacity vehicles is an objective of various medium and
large size cities which also face the problem of an increasing amount of private cars. The size of Mexico
City and the metropolitan zone and the dimension of the transport problem gives it a special status and
would find replication in megacitites through the world, especially the integration of high-capacity
busways and bus services feeding into existing rail systems.
(iii) The successful adoption of an action plan for non-motorized transport allows further replication,
once the barriers are identified and incentives established. It will provide a very strong example due to
the fact that a consciousness concerning non-motorized transport is missing at the moment. It will be
possible to introduce it more easily in cities of smaller size. A successful field test will provide
information on less polluting, climate friendly transport alternatives on which decisions on alternative
transport can be based. The provision of the resulting information by the field test to other Latin
American cities will make this kind of test feasible in other cities facing similar issues and conditions.
Moreover, the altitude of Mexico City influencing the field test is comparable to some other Latin
American cities such as Bogota and La Paz. The test protocol will make an effort to isolate the altitude
effects. This will be done by comparing results with those of similar vehicles tested at different altitudes
as well as through an analysis of the theoretical effects on the test including an assessment of how the
results would vary if the test had been conducted at sea level.
(iv) The completion of technical assistance, capacity building and training activities will lead to the
incorporation of climate and environmental considerations in the design of transport projects and to the
support of the field test of climate friendly transport systems. As these technical and training aspects are
necessary once a city wants to introduce or strengthen environmental considerations in its transport
system, the completion of this component will provide guiding assistance towards this objective.
(v) The successful design of a public campaign and of dissemination of related technical information will
lead in the long term to an increased use of high capacity vehicles, non-motorized modes of transport as
well as increased public awareness of transport corridors and climate friendly technologies. This
component will demonstrate how to disseminate these kind of information and how to increase the public
awareness in a city of the size and with the conditions of Mexico City and the metropolitan zone. In that
sense it will provide guiding assistance for cities facing the same issues and which find themselves at the
beginning of their environmental engagement.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
The metropolitan character of traffic-generated pollution requires a coordinated monitoring approach
which is made difficult by the fragmentation of institutional responsibilities. The technical committee
that includes the SMA, SETRAVI, STE and the State of Mexico authorities will provide a wider forum
for coordination and communication between the different project activities and will have responsibility
for their monitoring and evaluation. The implementation letter from the recipient and the DF to the Bank
contains the indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the project.
Specific M&E activities are outlined in Annex 1. Reporting on the indicators of each component will be
monitored by the World Bank through Supervision missions and by the involved agencies through
Project Progress Reports.
The purpose of the intention letter, which is being signed by representatives of the lead institutions from
each administration (City, State and Federation) is to adopt a coherent metropolitan vision that would
- 21 -



enable the development of a proper institutional and policy framework for the corridors. The extent of
these common goals such as the integration with the metro, institutional reform, tariffs integration and
corridors selection will be monitored and evaluated by the Bank's missions and will be part of the key
performance indicators of the project.
Monitoring and evaluation of the field test will cover the costs of operation, including fuel and other
consumables, labor, maintenance and repair, as well as the measuring of pollutant emissions of each
vehicle at various points during the testing period. An assessment will be made of the challenges of
operating larger fleets of advanced technology vehicles. The test protocol will present its results in two
parts: the field tests and the laboratory tests. Logs will be kept for each vehicle to monitor its economic
and environmental performance."
Incremental Cost
The concept of the incremental cost derives from the fact that, in order to maintain global sustainability,
additional national action beyond what is required for national development is needed. Such additional
action imposes additional (or "incremental") costs on countries beyond the costs that are strictly
necessary for achieving their own development goals, but nevertheless generates additional benefits that
the world as a whole can share. To calculate incremental cost, the expenditure of the GEF activity and
the cost saving on activities that, as a result of the GEF activity, will no longer be needed, must be
estimated. The latter refers to the "baseline" of future activities for sustainable national development that
does not explicitly take global considerations into account and that occurs in the absence of the project.
The proposed GEF Project assumes as a baseline scenario a business as usual operation of the transport
sector without consideration for transport corridors. The considered baseline includes also the already
completed Sector Work as a background to the purchase and operation of diesel buses. The Sector work
was also a basis for the development of the AQM-IlI:2000-2010. The total costs of the baseline amount
to US $ 4.1 million.
The proposed GEF project is complementary to the baseline scenario in that it will reduce GHG
emissions along with local emissions. With exception of the already completed Sector Work and the
purchase and operation of diesel buses the project is incremental. The following activities wouldn't be
carried out without the project, at least in the short run, which makes them additional ("incremental"): (a)
Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan, (b) definition of an enabling environment to facilitate the
implementation of sustainable transport strategies and an action plan for non-motorized transport, (c)
Field Test of Climate Friendly High Capacity vehicles, (d) technical assistance and training for
incorporation of climate change and air quality considerations in the design and analysis of transport
strategies, (e) public awareness and dissemination and finally the (f) management of the project.
The GEF alternative would entail costs estimated at US $ 12.20 million. The resulting incremental cost
(by subtracting the costs of the baseline from the costs of the alternative) amount to US $ 8.1 million.
The required GEF funding is US$ 5.8 million.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
a) Integration of planning strategies. The project seeks a commitment to pursue the integration of
strategies across the MCMA, through the identification of common issues and the definition of
multi-sector approaches, thereby providing the basis for a harmonized approach to issues of air quality
and transport and a coordinated climate action plan.
- 22 -



b) Consolidation and rationalization of bus services. The SETRAVI, in coordination with the
Metropolitan Commission of Transport and Roads (COMETRAVI) (Comisi6n Metropolitana de
Transporte y Vialidad) intends to consolidate and rationalize the bus services in the City. To this effect,
the SETRAVI has proposed, and the Assembly has approved, the new Transport Law for the City
(1999). The main objectives of the Law are: (a) to improve governance in the issuing of permits for bus
services, (b) to strengthen and better define the legal instruments that regulate service providers, and (c)
better enforce existing regulations. Under the project, steps will be taken to improve the consolidation
and rationalization of the bus service in the City.
Discussions are ongoing with the SETRAVI to take the following steps:
(a) Achieve coordination between the authorities of the City and the State to address all aspects of the
future integration of transport services in the MCMA;
(b) Implement the current policy of phasing-out the old and obsolete public transport fleet, including the
gradual retirement of microbuses;
(c) Gradually privatize emission testing requirements for the STE fleet;
(d) Address governance issues through the modernization and professionalization of vehicle inspections;
(e) Complete the studies to improve STE's tariff system; and
(f) Define measures to improve the management and business environment, with the objective of
promoting the professionalization of public transport services (see policy matrix).
c) Modal shiftfrom small and medium-sized vehicles to large public transport units. During project
preparation, discussions are being held with the Transport Authorities, to design measures that would
support the long-term modal shift towards an efficient public transport system (bus-metro). Measures that
would be initiated include:
(a) Create an enabling regulatory and institutional framework (policy environment) that would facilitate
the implementation of public transport corridors integrated with metro lines (component b of the project).
(See policy matrix);
(b) Review measures to further restrict cars in the downtown area;
(c) Improve the enforcement of emissions testing;
(d) Develop new parking regulations, including an effective pricing regime;
(e) Identify transport demand management measures;
(f) Formulate a long-term land-use planning strategy, encouraging densification, mixed use, and
transit-oriented development. The City authorities are developing plans to guide the urban expansion in
its jurisdiction, through densification plans.
Specific time-bound plans for the adoption of these measures, in addition to the timetable included in the
regulatory reform matrix, are being adopted by SETRAVI. Their implementation will be further pursued
as part of the studies sponsored under the project and the preparation activities for the proposed loan. The
GDF as well as the State of Mexico will prior to Board approval of the GEF project, have signed an
intention letter confirming the will to undertake necessary actions to formulate and enabling environment
for the corridors.
Policy Matrix for GEF Droiect
Issue                  Action needed           Impact                 Timing  in   the  GEF
project cycle
Regional  character  of Formulation   of    an Improved coordination of Intention letter is already
public transport corridors, intention letter, confirming actions by adrninistrations signed.
- 23 -



and coordination between the metropolitan nature of of the State and the City.
the   City   and    State the proposed corridors and
authorities.            their integration with the
metro.
usiness     environment Creation of the an enabling Development  of  an By PyO3
which     hinders     th regulatory framework that environmentally   and
development of an efficien is conducive to efficient financially  sustainable
public transport system.  public         transport public transport system.
operations.
Lack  of an   institutional Development  of   an Efficient public transport Intention letter is already
framework   to    manage institutional  framework services   along    the signed. The details of the
public transport service that fosters efficient public corridors,  raising  their organizational reform will
along the corridors     transport operation along attractiveness  to  the result from  the study of
the corridors           traveling public.        options financed by the
GEF project.
Fare structure does not mee Development  of   an Modal shift toward large Intention letter is already
efficiency  criteria  an integrated fare strategy for public transport vehicles signed. The  actual fare
discourages    intermoda metro and bus services generating  relatively low structure would result from
transfers.               along the corridors.    levels of air pollution.  the fare study financed by
the GEF project
The current  structure o Introduction  of modem Professionally operated bus The actual bidding process
bus operations is inefficien bidding criteria for bus services,  generating will be agreed prior to
and  results  in  unsafe operation in the corridors; economies of scale.  The Board  approval of the
polluting and unattractiv individual operators would efficiency gains achieved loan.
public transport services.  be  encouraged  to join may obviate the need for
professionally  managed fare increases.  This will
consortiums.            strengthen  the  case  for
replication in the MCMA.
Suitability of initial public Identification of best, most Ensures replicability of Initial selection of pilot
transport corridors.     replicable  corridors  to pilot corridors.       corridors is already made.
demonstrate effectiveness
of concept.
Environmental and social Action plans to address Ensures    environmental The detailed action plans
impacts of public transport any         potential and social sustainability of will be agreed prior to
corridors.              environmental and social the corridors to be built Board approval of the loan
issues associated with the under the loan.
corridors.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
The project is intended to yield the following benefits:
*   An improved and more coordinated approach in addressing climate change issues associated to
transport and air quality management through a Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan;
* Adoption of organizational and barrier removal measures to facilitate the implementation of
sustainable, climate-friendly transport strategies and implementation of an action plan for
non-motorized transport promoting and facilitating their use;
* A comparative field test that demonstrates less polluting, climate friendly transport alternatives. The
- 24 -



data from the field test which is anticipated to be of global value for decision making on alternative
transport measures;
* MCMA transport projects incorporate climate change issues in design and operation;
* Increased use of high capacity vehicles, non-motorized modes of transport as well as increased
public awareness of the advantages of transport corridors and climate friendly technologies; and
* Effective project management of climate friendly transport projects.
Target Population
The actions promoted through the project would ultimately benefit the population of the MCMA by
contributing to the harmonization and implementation of policies that result in direct reduction in
exposure to criteria pollutants through the reduction of airborne pollutants and reduction in the emission
of greenhouse gases. When implemented at a commercial scale, the emissions reductions and
improvement of air quality will result in improvements in health indicators that will benefit the
population at large and the most vulnerable groups (children and the elderly).
Coordination with other implementing agencies
The proposed project is being coordinated with similar projects under development in Santiago and
Lima, through the World Bank and with the GEF-funded (under UNDP), Strategy for Development of
Fuel Cell Buses for the developing world. UNDP, New York, 2001. While there are substantial
differences between the proposed project and the UNDP executed project, both include a bus test of
new technologies and need to be coordinated. This is being done through the STE, which is also the
executing agency for the UNDP project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing Agency. The executing agency is the SMA.
Technical Committee. SMA has organized a Technical Commnittee, for the purposes of the GEF
Project, with the representation of four members: the agencies of GDF, represented by Secretary of
SMA and SETRAVI, the State of Mexico, the Federal Government, and the World Resources Institute,
which, through the Center for Sustainable Transport will assist in the planning and coordination of the
execution of the GEF project. The Technical Committee will meet at least two times per year.
The Technical Committee will:
*      Guide and support the Project Implementation Unit in the implementation of the Project,
*      Support the coordination of the project's activities and of the inputs of the involved
agencies,
*      Ensure the metropolitan scope of the Project, including inputs, activities and results, as
appropriate;
*     Advise and facilitate the regulatory adjustments that might be necessary for the
implementation of the Project,
*      Consider the views of stakeholder and partners concerns and demands,
*      Facilitate the supervision activities of the Bank and review the implementation plan and
annual report of the project.
The Technical Committee will at all times be equipped and have sufficient resources to carry out its
- 25 -



task. It will be composed by members with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank
including one representative of SMA, one representative of SETRAVI, two representatives of Edomex,
one representative of UMS, and one representative of Institute of World Environment and Resources
Studies. The Technical Committee will make decisions by consensus, whenever possible. In the event of
a lack of consensus, SMA will take the decisions, documenting the differences in views and explaining
the reasons behind its decision.
Advisory Board. The Technical Committee will be advised by an ad-honorem Advisory Board on
technical, scientific and social matters. This Board will be at all times equipped and have sufficient
resources to carry out its tasks as proposed by the Technical Committee and in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank. It will be composed by members with experience and qualifications as proposed by the
Technical Committee and satisfactory to the Bank. The constitution of the Board will be defined by the
SMA prior to effectiveness.
Project Implementation Unit. The set-up of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has already been
made. The PIU will work for and report to the SMA and will be the responsible unit within SMA for the
implementation of the GEF Project and its requirements. The Project Implementation Unit will
coordinate and supervise the implementation of all project activities, report on progress and ensure
compliance with all fiduciary requirements. The PIU will at all times be equipped and have sufficient
resources to carry out its task and be conformed by members and staffed with personnel in numbers and
with experience and qualifications proposed by the Technical Committee and satisfactory to the Bank.
Lead institutions for the implementation of each component have been identified (Annex 20). The PrIU
will benefit from the advice and assistance of the Center for Sustainable Transport.
Advisory Panel for the Test Protocol. An Advisory Panel will be organized to advise the Technical
Committee on technical, scientific and social matters related to Part C of the Project, especifically
related to the Test Protocol. This panel will be constituted by Board presentation. Such panel will be at
all times equipped and have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks as proposed by the Technical
Committee and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The costs of the panel will be covered under the
test protocol. This committee would include world-renowned intemational and Mexican experts as
proposed by the Technical Committee and satisfactory to the Hank. The ultimate responsibility for the
execution of the test protocol is with STE.
Institutional Arrangements In order to be in full compliance with Bank requirements per OP/BP
10.02, a certified specialist carried out the financial management assessment of the SMA as
implementing agency, supported by a technical committee and an administrative unit, which will be
responsible as project implementing unit PIU. The institutional capacity of SMA is acceptable to the
Bank. The financial agency, Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS), will provide
support to the PIU to ensure timely project readiness. Considering existing FM arrangements,
BANOBRAS' experience on financial management and that the procurement assessment reflected that
SMA satisfies Bank/GEF requirements on procurement (according annex 6 section A) this project can
be presented to the Board.
SMA is taking actions to have a management information system, MIS, which will produce quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports, FMRs, for project management and eventually allow for FMRs-based
disbursements. Traditional disbursement methods (SOEs, special commitments and direct payments)
will be used until SMA is ready to adopt the new FMS disbursement system.
The financial management assessment, FMA, was based on applicable Bank guidelines focusing on
- 26 -



project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budget and financial reporting system, auditing
arrangements and content/format of the new FMRs. The following will be required as effectiveness
condition (i) the fully implementation/operation of satisfactory project MIS and reporting readiness (ii)
the project manual (iii) a fuilly operational PIU and (iv) the implementation agreement between
BANOBRAS and SMA. These conditions are needed to bring FM to the required level.
Project Coordination and Management. BANOBRAS will be the recipient of the grant resources,
under a GEF grant agreement. SMA will be the executing agency. The project will be coordinated
through a technical committee made up of four members (the City, The State of Mexico, The Federal
Government and the WRI). Overall implementation programmning and progress will be assigned to the
committee, supported by the project PIU, directly, the project coordinator. In addition, the financial
administration of SMA and other relevant SMA's areas will provide support as needed. The SMA will
house the PIU and disburse resources from a Special Account to be set up at the Central Bank for
administration of the grant money.
The Bank and SMA agreed on the format and content of the quarterly FMRs. SMA shall carry out a
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the improvement of its existing systems in order to
enable the preparation of those quarterly FMRs before project effectiveness.
SEMARNAT will represent the Federal Government in the Coordination Committee and will also play
a role in securing the confirmation of arrangements to involve the Commission of Environmental
Cooperation in the financing of the project.
Disbursement and flow of funds (Special Account): A Special Account (SA) in US dollars with an
initial deposit of US $ 560.000 would be established at the local central bank Banco de Mexico and
managed by the financial agency BANOBRAS. This SA will be monthly replenished and will be used
for all transactions with a value of less than 20% of the amount advanced to it. Traditional full
documentation requirements apply for direct payments, special commitments and statements of
expenditures (SOEs). SMA in coordination with BANOBRAS would prepare the necessary
documentation for prompt disbursements.
SOEs-based disbursements methodology will be used. SMA will be responsible for overall flow of funds
from the SA and through its standard budget. SMA will coordinate all project payments and its records
and accounts. BANOBRAS will provide support on Bank financial management procedures to ensure
compliance with all agreements and requirements. A complete section on project disbursement and flow
of funds will be included in project manual. The SMA will establish a project account in local currency
to be used only for project implementation and following SMA's requirements for its standard budget.
This account will be managed in line with existing policies, procedures and controls.
Auditing. SMA will maintain the records, accounts, files and project documentation, and will produce
standard financial statements according to International Accounting Standards (IAS). Project operations
will be audited on annually basis in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (compatible
with International Standards on Auditing ISAs and satisfactory to the Bank) and procedures consistently
applied, by an independent and qualified auditor (based on applicable Bank guidelines and TOR for
auditing). The audit and financial statements will be submitted to the Bank four months after the end of
the fiscal year. After one year of operation of the Project, said date for submission of audit and financial
statements will be reviewed and reexamined on the basis of the experience. The Contralorfa General del
Gobierno del Distrito Federal and SMA's internal auditor will coordinate with implementing agency
SMA and BANOBRAS the annual audits. A section providing details on auditing will be included in
- 27 -



project manual.
Frequency of financial management supervision missions proposed. Financial management reviews of
project arrangement will be carried out to evaluate needed adjustments in project implementation
arrangements. Frequency as required by the project but at least once a year starting second
implementation year. First implementation year one supervision mission every six months will be
carried out by the Financial Management Specialist in coordination with project team.
Progress to Date in Project Preparation
The objectives to be achieved by the project have been identified as priorities in the Air Quality
Management Program for MCMA (AQM-III) (2002-2010), the Integrated Transport Program
(2002-2006), the General Urban Development Program (2002-2006) and finally the Environmental
Program (2002-2006).
SMA, SETRAVI and STE, which have been involved from the beginning in the process of preparing
and supervising the implementation of the PDF-B studies, have expressed their comnruitment to allocate
enough resources in the next fiscal year to ensure the funding of the project baseline. The Grant will be
channelled through BANOBRAS, which in turn will, under the terms of a subsidiary agreement, pass on
the resources to the SMA.
The project was prepared by SMA. Results of the relevant studies funded through a PDF-B grant and a
PHRD grant have been integrated into the project design.
The PDF-B supported two types of studies:
a) assessment of the global nature of the air quality issues in the MCMA; and
b) assessment of specific altematives to address the emission of GHG.
Under the global assessment, the PDF-B supported an energy balance for the MCMA, a GHG inventory,
and an assessment of energy intensity of economic activity. All these studies were instrumental in
defining the project: the energy inventory identified the transport sector as the key user of fuels in the
MCMA, and identified type of fuels used. The GHG inventory led to the quantification of GHG by each
economic activity, identifying the volume and type of GHG released by the transport sector and
confirming its character as key source of GHG. The energy intensity study revealed the increase in
carbonization of the transport sector.
Under the specific activities studies, the PDF-B revealed the barriers that faced modernization of the
transport sector and the introduction of new technologies. For the activities under the energy rubric
(solar water heaters, energy efficiency) the studies revealed that these measures are economnically
competitive today and that barriers impeding further progress are related to those common to
introduction of new measures (perception of risks, lack of information). Still, the authorities have
decided to focus on the transport sector which is by far the largest contributor of GHG as the studies
have confirmed and where a modal shift has the largest potential for significant reductions.
The Shell Foundation through the World Resources Institute and the Center for Sustainable Transport
have confirmed their technical and financial assistance and their support to facilitate private sector
participation. In addition, the project has the support of the federal government.
- 28 -



A key element of this program is the active participation of the private sector manufactures of vehicles
and fuels. These will be used to test both new fuels and vehicles, both for emissions and overall
acceptability by passengers, drivers, and operating companies. Major vehicle companies -- Volvo,
Scania, International, and Freightliner (Mercedes, i.e., Daimler Benz) have agreed to provide test buses.
These agreements will be documented by SMA. The private companies will also be active participants in
the analysis and stakeholder dialogues related to policy development and implementation. Since this is
the first program designed to integrate transport and air pollution strategies over the long term, such
companies must play an active role in developing successful strategies.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An alternative considered but not pursued consisted of the GEF project being a component of the
proposed loan. This was not a viable alternative on account of the need for the GEF funded studies to
take place well before the loan could be processed. The GEF-funded studies facilitate the review of
options to enable the environment conducive to the adoption of the proposed transport corridors.
Without this phasing, it would not be possible to pursue the corridors option at the time the loan would
be in place.
Bus technologies considered for inclusion in the test, involved many options. However, at the end only
the Diesel, CNG, and Hybrid options were considered because: (a) diesel constitutes the baseline
(option that would be in place without GEF funding), (b) CNG constitutes an option with strong
political approval and some field experience, (c) hybrid-diesel constitutes a robust option in terms of
potential reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. Options discarded included: LPG because of
decisions to control fugitive emissions from LPG in the MCMA.
There are different approaches for reductions in GHG emissions from the transport sector such as:
reducing fuel usage per passenger-vehicle, shifting to lower-carbon energy sources, shift people to
lower-emitting modes and to reduce travel altogether. The proposed project supports measures and
policies to promote a modal shift in the transport sector of the Metropolitan area (from one based on an
increasing share of small, gasoline-based vehicles to a system based on high capacity, fuel efficient and
low carbon emitting vehicles, running along transport corridors and linked and integrated with the
Metro system).
However, to make these gains possible, it is necessary to ensure that an enabling environment is adopted
(climate friendly policies and measures as part of the sector policies). First, the project seeks the
integration of urban planning, air quality management and sustainable transport planning strategies into
the development, evaluation and monitoring of a Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan. Second, the
project aims at facilitating the implementation of sustainable transport strategies (i.e. corridors) through
the definition of economic incentives, the improvement of the regulatory system and finally the support
of the removal of barriers and organizational measures. Third, from a global perspective there is a need
to provide field data on the new vehicles and compare it with performance information for baseline
alternatives. The project fills this need through the undertaking of a comparative field test between the
hybrid vehicle, CNG and modern diesel buses. Fourth, the project provides technical assistance,
capacity building and training to incorporate climate and environmental considerations in the design of
transport projects and to support the mentioned field test. Finally, a public campaign will be designed
outlining the advantages and objectives of transport corridors as well as the benefits from the use of
- 29 -



high capacity vehicles and non-motorized modes of transport and the related technical information will
be disseminated.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
l                               LLatest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
l___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___  I ___ ____(Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Environmental protection and natural Mexico Environmental Project  S            S
resource management, strengthening
institutional and policy framework
Environmental investments,        Mexico Northem Border            S            S
strengthening institutional capacity on
the state and municipal level
Conservation and natural resource  Mexico Protected Areas (GEF)
management of protected areas
Regulatory framework and institutional Mexico Air Quality I        S            S
strengthening
Strengthening institutional, technical, Mexico Solid Waste         S            S
administrative and regulatory capacity Management [I
and improving solid waste services
Municipal infrastructure and capacity  Mexico Water and Sanitation I  S         S
building
Small scale municipal infrastructure,  Mexico Decentralization &   S            S
institutional strengthening       Rural Development (DRD II)
Institutional Strengthening       Mexico: PROMAD
Environmental Sustainable transport  Santiago's Air Quality and
Transport Project (Chile -
GEF)
Urban transport and institutional  Bogota Urban Transport         HS            HS
strengthening                     Project
Urban transport and institutional  Lima Urban Transport
strengthening
Urban transport                   Urban Transport Medium
Cities (Mexico)
Urban Transport                   Venezuela Urban Transport
Other development agencies
United Nations Development Program  Demonstration Project of
UNDP-GEF                         Hydrogen Fuel Cell Buses and
an Associated System for
Hydrogen Supply in Mexico
City
Inter-American Development Bank  Water supply and Management
(IDB)                            in ZMVM (in preparation)
Inter-American Development Bank  Water and Sanitation in Rural
(IDB)                            Areas (in preparation)
- 30 -



German Cooperation (GTZ)         Decentralization of Solid
Waste in Mexico DF
German Cooperation (GTZ)        Industrial Waste and
Hazardous Waste in Mexico
DF
German Cooperation (GTZ)         Environmental Technology for
Small-sized Industry
German Cooperation (GTZ)         Air Quality Mexico DF
Japan OECF                       Water supply and Sewerage in
Guadalajara
Japan OECF                       Mexico DF Sanitation Project
Japan OECF                       Mexico City Sulfur dioxide
Emission Reduction
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has a long-standing involvement in the sector of Air Quality Management. The first project
in the MCMA was approved in 1992. The objective of this project (just closed) was to support a
comprehensive program to reduce transport generated air pollution in the MCMA. This project was
followed by the provision of technical assistance in the formulation of the AQM-llL. The
implementation of the first quality project offers a valuable experience on which to base the proposed
GEF-funded operation. The project was satisfactorily completed and an ICR (Implementation
Completion Report) has been issued. Some of the lessons learned during its implementation, that have
been incorporated in the project design, include:
Air pollution is a long-term problem that requires a long-term response
The Mexican Government has recognized the need for a long term strategy to address the issues caused
by air pollution (PICCA and PROAIRE see acronyms table) and accordingly has committed to the
development of long range plans, the first of which covered a 5 year period in the City. To assist in this
program, the World Bank needs to continue to have a long-term commitment that matches the time
requirements needed to secure sizable and permanent improvements in air quality. A long-term vision
and concomitant goals need to be set, to guide removal of barriers and promote short-term measures.
Planning for the long-term, however, requires flexibility
Previous experience has shown that, despite the best planning.efforts in the preparatory stage, required
adjustments in air quality management activities will only become evident during their implementation.
Wide participatory approach to air quality management
A participatory approach, incorporating public opinion in the project, is required to establish legitimacy
of the project. Widespread implementation of the proposed measures is also critical in order to achieve
the desired results. To accomplish this, it is necessary to gain public confidence and support for the
program activities. There is also a need to build consensus among all stakeholders over the
identification of priority measures. The effectiveness in carrying out and monitoring the agreed priority
measures needs to be determined in a participatory approach, with the input of all stakeholders.
Commitment from the Mexican government to publish environmental audits annually to promote the
achievements of the clean air programs, as well as to improve institutional transparency is vital. Such
audits could help promote local ownership and full support from the highest levels of Government.
- 31 -



The Bank's involvement should continue to be usedfor its catalytic effect
The World Bank should continue to catalyze the involvement and the participation of development
banks and agencies, the private sector, NGO's and foundations and research and training centers. The
Bank should work to mobilize technical and financial support from international environmental
agencies and to organize study tours to cities with experience in modern transport strategies. The project
will support a dissemination effort of the results and experiences obtained through the implementation
of its components.
Local air management matters from a global perspective
Local air pollution issues and global concerns are linked. Local programs may contribute to global
benefits. Major environmental and economic benefits can be achieved through a well-implemented
reform of bus services. In the recently closed Bogota Urban Transport Project (1996-2002), the Bank
was closely improved in the design and implementation of the successful transmilenio bus system.
Important aspects of this experience could be replicated in and adapted to the MCMA transport system.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
SMA and STE helped identify the project at the beginning of 1999, and has actively participated in the
preparation and supervision of the on-going preparatory study, funded by a GEF PDF-B grant.
SETRAVI, the city executive agency in charge of transport, has stated its interest and high level of
priority attached to the project. The federal, state and city authorities under CAM support the project.
The project document has been drafted with the participation and clearance of the SMA, SETRAVI and
STE and the log frame was developed during a two day session with all the implementing agencies.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
Test: The Bank involvement brings a global experience with air pollution and transport issues and its
linkage with global concerns. The policy dialogue with the environmental authorities banks on
extensive expertise at the Bank on the subject. The involvement of the Bank/GEF in the proposed
project provides an opportunity to support a critical effort by the Government of Mexico to (a) improve
the environmental performance of the transport sector, (b) improve global environmental quality
through the reduction of greenhouse gases, and (c) partly reduce dependence on high-carbon
fuel-generated energy. Bank involvement has made possible the sharing of its broad experience in air
quality and transport and adapting it to Mexican conditions. GEF involvement is critical to catalyzing
local willingness to test and demonstrate hybrid bus technology.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
o Other (specify)
For the incremental costs of the project see Annex 4
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
As the project focuses on studies and policy reforms to remove barriers for instituting a modal shift and
provide better information for decision making, most of the financial analysis will be done as part of the
- 32 -



project. This will include a financial analysis of options for a business structure for the integration of the
bus corridors including factors such as the system of business organization, the concessions for specific
bus line operations and the structuring of integrated fares. In addition, a financial analysis will be done
to determine the viability of the different bus technology options in light of the operational performance
and cost information provided by the field test.
Fiscal Impact:
No tangible fiscal impact is anticipated.
3. Technical:
*   Corridors: The initial selection of the corridors has been done as part of project preparation and before
board approval. The design of the two selected metropolitan corridors will be done as part of project
preparation for the proposed loan, under a PHRD grant. The outcome of this transport corridor study will
be the identification of low pollution alternatives for integrated public transport, the estimate of transport
demand and the modelling of associated environmental impacts, the estimate of costs of a proposed
transport corridor, the environmental and social assessment, the economic analysis, the safety audit, the
business framework, the implementation action plan and the preparation of bidding documents. It will be
timed so as to allow the activities of the GEF project to be coordinated with the design.
To sum up, the preparation activities by source of funding are as follows: a) German Trust Fund:
Identification of Corridors; b) PHRD: Design of corridors; c) GEF project: Definition of the enabling
environment for corridor operation; and d) IBRD loan: Implementation of corridors
*   Field Test: As part of project preparation the protocol for the field test has been designed (annex 16).
Among the issues addressed by the protocol are:  Fleet size: A statistical assessment was
performed, estimating that it would take 3-4 buses per technology option to provide a robust test that can
be used for decision making. Testing procedures: The procedures for testing the emissions and
monitoring the operational performance will be determined as part of the feasibility studies. These
arrangements will be further completed in consultation with the private sector parties involved in the
field test.
4. Institutional:
SMA and STE, formulated the current structure of the project in early 2002, based on the
results of the work sponsored under the PDF-B.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Secretarfa de Medio Ambiente (SMA) under terms of a subsidiary agreement with BANOBRAS.
4.2 Project management:
Project management arrangements have been sunmnarized in section 4 (Institutional and
implementation arrangements) and in the paragraph concerning Project Coordination and Management
(p 27).
4.3 Procurement issues:
No major procurement issues have been identified. The cofinancing will be done on a parallel basis
following the procedures of the individual agencies. Details on procurement arrangements are
summarized in Annex 6
4.4 Financial management issues:
No major financial management issues have been identified.
- 33 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will focus on climate change-related policy and regulatory reform and the development of a
Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan. In addition, there will be a comparative field test of buses.
The field test will involve established routes, will not require any new works and therefore will not
involve resettlement and the only environmental issues are related to standard maintenance of the
vehicles, such as disposal of waste oil. Therefore no safeguard policies are triggered. In order to ensure
that the environmental benefits of the project are maximized in the short and long term, the policy reform
and field test, including the chosen routes for the field test and transport corridors, will be based on an
extensive characterization of the airshed of the Mexico City Metropolitan Area and assessment of
environmental impact of transport policy options done under the WB environment sector work.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
While the project has been ranked category C and no EIA is requireed, as part of preparation activities,
working groups were engaged in the analysis of options. These groups involved public and private
companies and agencies, NGOs and representatives from civil society.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
For purposes of the field test a Test Protocol has been designed that includes specific measurements for
emissions of greenhouse gases and other local criteria pollutants.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no major social issues. The studies funded under the project will result in
recommendations that when enacted will yield lower pollution loads and emissions of GHG
to the local atmosphere. These reductions will have a benefitial health impact by lowering
human exposure to criteria pollutants, which can be characterized as the long-term social
development outcome.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During project preparation and as part of the activities sponsored through the PDF-B, the Government
organized a transport group with participation of transport companies, users, vehicle and fuel
manufacturers as well as regulatory agencies and transport and environment institutions. The output of
these consultations were fed into the processing of the AQM-L and resulted in the formulation of
transport priorities under the Air Quality Management Plan. A key priority identified by the transport
working group and later validated by the CAM was the suggested transport corridors. In addition, the
transport companies have played an important role in the formulation of the project, they are being
- 34 -



consulted regarding the development of a business model for the operation of the corridors and
they will participate actively in the review of the results. These agencies and groups have
participated in discussions leading to the conceptualization of the project.
The Center for Sustainable Transport (CST) constitutes a highly visible opportunity for further
involvement of stakeholders in Mexico. The CST was launched on June 1, 2002 with participation of key
stakeholders in air quality management, climate change and transport. Other important stakeholders,
such as the secretaries of finance, technical and planning agencies, citizen groups and others will be
engaged through meetings and discussions during preparation of the project. The transport operators and
users are being consulted in each action taken for development of the corridors. A public awareness
campaign is being developed through the CST. Transport operators and bus manufacturers have been
contacted and are part of the consultations strategy for implementation of the corridors. Through the
technical committee, the different institutional stakeholders as well as the transport operators and users
will be consulted. Their views will be considered and incorporated during project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As described in pp. 25 and 26, several mechanisms have been designed and are being put in place to
involve consultation and collaboration with NGOs and other civil society organizations. As part of these
arrangements a Technical Committee has been established that includes an NGO through the Center for
Sustainable Transport. In addition an advisory board is being set up that will bring different perspectives
and experiences from outside experts. Workshops are planned as part of project implementation that will
involve key agencies and civil society at large on discussions regarding different aspects of the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The consultation process and exchange of information within the institutions and the civil society will
provide the basis to ensure that the social development outcome is achieved. The advisory board will
enable the engagement of NGOs.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Performance will be monitored through the project performance report and Bank supervision as
described in Annex 1
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)  -         Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes S No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 ( Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        U Yes7 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (9Yes * No
- 35 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The environmental screening resulted in a category C project which does not require further actions.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Successful adoption of an integrated Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan for the transport sector,
harmonized with Air Quality, Transport and Urban Plans facilitates the sustainability of the climate
change agenda in the MCMA in the long-term and commits agencies involved in the Metropolitan
Climate Change Action Plan after the project. Successful adoption of organizational and barrier
removal measures facilitates the implementation of sustainable, climate-friendly transport strategies and
creates a sustainable institutional and technical framework. Successful implementation of an Action
Plan for non-motorized transport -to promote the bicycle use- increases the attractiveness and the safety
of the use of non-motorized transport. Successful field test demonstrates less polluting, climate friendly
transport alternatives and makes it feasible to provide this information to other Latin American cities.
Completion of technical assistance, capacity building and training activities leads to incorporation of
climate and environmental considerations in the design of transport projects and to support of the field
test of climate friendly transport systems. Successful design of public campaign and of dissemination of
related technical information leads to increased use of high capacity vehicles, non-motorized modes of
transport as well as increased public awareness of transport corridors and climate friendly technologies.
The strong commitment from State and City Authorities and the integral character of the proposals as
part of the Air Quality Management Plan provide the required wide support to ensure sustainability.
While the development of an enabling environment for the adoption of transport corridors and
promotion of a modal shift is a very local issue (depending on local conditions), the process to be
followed will be of interest to other large metropolitan areas. In this context, the project has a value
added. Also, the test for the alternative bus technologies will be designed and implemented in a manner
that will allow for wide-use of the information.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The table below includes the risk that the World Bank loan supporting the construction of the corridors
may not materialize. It is clear, however, that the City is financially capable of investing in an
infrastructure project of this magnitude, and that it could build the corridor without the future
involvement of the Bank. Actions to initiate the design have already started, sponsored by the Bank
through German and PHRD grants and counterpart resources.
There is a strong Government commitment to implement the corridors, and these have been incorporated
as part of the key measures to be carried out under the recently approved transport and environmental
plans. The environmental metropolitan authorities (State and City), as well as the federal government
(SEMARNAT and the Health Secretary) have confirmed their commitment to the implementation of the
corridors under the Third Air Quality Management Program for the MCMA (AQM-Ell 2002-2010). In
addition, the Transport Secretariat strongly expressed its interest in the strategic corridors, within the
framework of the Comprehensive Transport Plan (2002 - 2006). Both programs have been developed in
a coordinated manner by the agencies involved. The AQM-IH indicates that the implementation of public
transport corridors aims to promote a modal shift to high capacity vehicles by facilitating the integration
of new busways with the metro system. A typical corridor project includes three components: a) at least
one busway and the restructuring of road-based public transport in the corridor; b) the upgrading of
transfer terminal(s) between metro and bus; and c) improvements to the metro line. The intended benefits
include shorter travel times for passengers, better performance and reduced operating costs of public
- 36 -



transport providers, and less pollution - to be achieved through increased metro use, restructured
road-based public transport, and improved administrative and legal arrangements. Both programs
guarantee that the corridor-related studies financed by the GEF project will be followed up by the
authorities concerned.
Risk'                  Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1.- Political support for the Metropolitan  M       Sector work has focused on development of an
Climate Change Action Plan                          integrated plan. Under the project, technical
assistance and policy dialogue will be
continued.
2.- Institutional commitment to            S        Key measures have been identified under the
framework                                           Air Quality Plan. Plan has been endorsed by
key stakeholders in government.
M         Protocols and technical assistance.
3.- Political and public acceptance of              Participation of the advisory board (MIT, U of
field test results                                  Berkeley, U of Toronto and UWV) will ensure
scientific support and credibility.
4.- Technical support from the            M         Sector agencies have been and will continue to
responsible agencies                                be involved in the design of the project. The
private sector has expressed its interest to
participate.
5.- Public acceptance of promoted          S        Activities under public awareness and
measures                                            dissemination. Through a public campaign
design, the stakeholders are going to be
provided with the technical information and the
project progress report.
6.- World Bank loan does not materialize  M         The City and the State could finance corridors
from other international funding sources, and
the dialogue with the Bank would continue
under the GEF project.
S        Continued involvement of outside agencies,
7.- Effective collaboration between the            including the Bank and the World Resources
City and the State                                  Institute, will help the coordination by the two
jurisdictions.
8.- New investments in infrastructure that  M       Policy dialogue with transport agencies and
are not integrated with the development             priority being assigned to the corridors.
of the corridors
9.- Agreement with the private sector on  M         Private sector is being involved in the design of
bus and fuel specifications is not                 the protocol. Negotiations are well advanced.
promptly secure
From Components to Outputs
Cooperation of involved agencies and      M         Sector and technical agencies have indicated
availability of counterpart funds                   their willingness to participate.
Willingness of private sector to          M         The private sector has expressed support for
participate                                         the project.
Effective project management              N         The involved agencies have expressed their
commitment to work in coordination.
- 37 -



Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following activities are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant:
(a) Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect;
(b) PIU, Technical Committee, Advisory Board and Advisory Test Protocol Panel have been established
and are operational;
(c) Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into by the Recipient and DF;
(d) DF's financial management system is fully operational as stated in the Bank's financial
management assessment of DF's financial management system dated July 22, 2002;
(e) Terms of Reference (satisfactory to the Bank) for the auditors referred to in Grant Agreement
have been prepared by the Recipient through the DF;
(f) (i) UMS has furnished to the Bank a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of SEMARNAT
counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that, on behalf of UMS, the Grant Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, UMS and is legally
binding upon UMS in accordance with its terms; and (ii) DF and the Recipient have each
furnished to the Bank a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to
the Bank, showing that, on behalf of DF and the Recipient, respectively the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, DF
and the Recipient, respectively, and is legally binding upon DF and the Recipient, respectively, in
accordance with its terms.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
- 38 -



a 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
C6Ahn Redwood                       Olivier Lafourcad
eanzeade                       Sector Director                   Country M nager/Director
- 39 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators                                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Environmental agenda:   -Improved capacity of local Sector Work (World Bank) Macroeconomic stability
Promotion of institutional  and national institutions.
development,
decentralization of     -Increase in number of  Sector Work (World Bank) Political acceptance
environmental           environmental projects
management,             initiated by local
mainstreaming of global  institutions.
issues, climate change.                         Sector Work (World Bank)
-Increase in number of
government policies that
incorporate climate change
issues.
- 40 -



GEF Operational Program:  Outcome/ Impact
Indicators:
OP 11                   - Identification of     Transport sector reports  Government remains
Promoting environmentally low-GHG transport                             committed to promoting the
sustainable transport   measures.                                       adoption of low-GHG
Specific objective: reduce                      Greenhouse gas emission  emitting transport options.
GHG emissions from urban - Improved sustainability of inventories
and surface transport   the transport sector.
sources in recipient
countries by facilitating
recipient countries'
commnitment to adopt
sustainable low-GHG
transport measures, and
disengagement from
unsustainable measures
common in many parts of
the world.
Global Objective:       Outcome / Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Project Development     Comp. 1. Urban, transport  1. Supervision Reports,  Commitments of agencies
Objective:              and air quality plans and  Agency Reports by Key  involved in CAP continue
The project development  planning processes     agencies, Project Progress  after the project
objective is to contribute to harmonized. Adoption and Report. Metropolitan
the adoption of policies and initiation of Metropolitan  Climate Change Action  Sustainability of
measures that will assist in Climate Change Action  Plan                institutional and technical
a long-term modal shift to  Plan and associated                         framework
climate-friendly, more  measures by the end of
efficient and less polluting, PY2.                                      Continuity of incorporation
less carbon intensive                                                   of climate change issues
transport in the MCMA.  Comp. 2. Identification of  2. Project Progress Reports into transport projects
organizational and barrier  (SETRAVI)
removal measures        Action Plan for         Continuity of public
(enabling environment) to  non-motorized transport  awareness campaign and
facilitate the                                  dissemination
implementation of
sustainable, climate
friendly transport                              Climate friendly measures
strategies by the end of                        for transport sector are
PY2 and Design of an                            institutionally, technically
Action Plan for                                 and financiafly feasible in
non-motorized transport by                      other Latin American cities
mid PY2.                3. MCMA Transport
Project Reports (STE),  Measures lead to modal
Comp. 3. Field test     Project Progress Report,  shift to low GHG emitting
demonstrates less polluting, Supervision Report,  transport
- 41 -



climate friendly transport  Evaluation Report
alternatives; Decisions  Action Plan on Use of the
made on alternative    Information from the Test.
transport based on data
from field tests by the end
of PY3.                 4. Supervision Report,
Project Progress Report
Comp. 4. MCMA transport (SETRAVIISMA)
projects incorporate climate
change issues in design and
operation by the end of
PY4.                    5. Supervision Report,
Project Progress Report
Comp. 5. Better         and Public Awareness
understanding of the    Survey
potential of high capacity
vehicles, non-motorized
modes of transport as well
as increased public
awareness of the
advantages of transport
corridors and climate
friendly technologies by the
end of PY5.
Comp. 6. Effective Project
Management team
established adequate for
use in future operations.
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1:            1.1. Calibration of urban  -Review report on Air  Political support for CAP
-Harmonization of sector  development models linked Quality, Urban and
strategies on air quality  to the process of transport  Transport Plan including
issues and Integrated  and air quality planning  gaps and overlaps analysis
Climate Action Plan (CAP) and review on Air Quality, - Metropolitan Climate
for the MCMA            Urban and Transport Plan  Change Action Plan
including gaps and overlaps
analysis as basis for their
harmonization completed
by mid PY2. Review of the
Land Use and travel
forecasting models in use
in MCMA and of model
- 42 -



interactions of transport
activity with land use by
mid PY2.
1.2. Harmonization of Air
Quality, Urban and
Transport Plans completed
by the end of PY 1.
1.3. Metropolitan Climate
Change Action Plan
completed by the end of
PY2 and be updated
routinely during the
duration of the project.
Component 2:            2.1. Definition of an  -Institutional Framework  Institutional commitment to
Definition of an enabling  institutional framework for -Origin/Destination Survey framework
environment to facilitate  the corridors including the  Design
the implementation of  integration of the metro and - Business structure report
sustainable transport  the bus transport by the end - Report on metro
strategies             of PY1. Design of an    rider-ship promotion
Origin/Destination Survey  measures
by the end of PY2.     - Action Plan for
non-motorized transport
2.2. Initiation of a reform
of bus regulations in the
corridors by the end of
PY1.
2.3. Definition of business
and management structures
for operating the bus
corridors by the end of
PY1.
2.4. Identification of
measures to promote metro
rider-ship by the end PY 1.
2.5. Action Plan for
non-motorized options by
the end of PY2.
Component 3:           3.1. Protocol Manual by the -Protocol manual   Field test results have
Field Test of          end of PY1.             - Framework for evaluation political and public
Climate-Friendly high  Field test produces     for alternative vehicle  acceptance
capacity vehicles      statistically robust results  options
that can be used for
decision making by end of
- 43 -



PY3. Framework for
evaluation of alternative
vehicle options (ASIF)
developed and applied by
the end of PY2.
Component 4:            4.1. Completion of legal  - Project supervision  Availability of supporting
Incorporation of climate  review for SETRAVI by  Report                technical infrastructure
change and air quality  the end of PY2.         - Project Progress Report
considerations in the design
and analysis of transport  4.2. Perform analyses of
strategies              benefits, costs
(additionalities), of
sustainable transport
project completed by the
end of PY3.
4.3. Perform analysis of
environmental impacts of
sustainable transport
project completed by the
end of PY3.
4.4. Perform analysis of
climate impact assessments
of sustainable transport
project completed by the
end of PY3.
4.5. Development of
methodologies for
measurement and
verifications of emissions
from public ground
transport and its
competitors by the end of
PYI.
4.6. Provision of training
to bus operators,
mechanics, and
maintenance staff to ensure
that the testing vehicles are
well operated and
maintained
completed by the end of
Py1.
4.7. Review and
development of standards
- 44 -



and regulations proposals
to be applied in the
Metropolitan Area by the
end of PY2.
4.8. Provision of training
and support to SETRAVI's
staff for contracting and
coordinating market studies
on the technology required
for buses completed by the
end of PY2.
4.9. Training of officials
and staff of UMS, Edomex,
DF, companies that
manufacture the buses and
transport operators,
academics and NGO's on
the climate action plan
completed by the end of
PY4.
4.10. Strengthening of the
Institutional capacity
building for the executing
agency (SMA) performed
by PY1.
Component 5:            5.1. Technical information  -Technical information  Public acceptance of
Public awareness and    produced by the project  material               promoted measures
dissemination           collected and integrated till - Dissemination Plan  Provision of technical
the end of the project  - Public campaign design  information of the project
- Project Progress Report
5.2. Public Campaign
designed by the end of PY3
5.3. Dissemination Plan on
the basis of the technical
information produced by
the project by the end of
the project
5.4. Promotion and
Financing of workshops
and stakeholder meetings
by the end of the project
Component 6:            6.1. Project implementation -Supervision Reports  Effective Project
Project Management      unit in operation in the first -Project Progress Reports  Management
quarter of PY 1.
- 45 -



6.2. Completion of project
activities.
6.3. Evaluation of results of
the project by the end of
the project.
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:    (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                    Outputs)
1.0: Harmonization of  1.0: US$ 0.8 million (with  Progress, disbursement,  Cooperation of involved
sector strategies on air  US$ 0.4 million GEF grant) audit and supervision  agencies
quality issues and                             reports
Integrated Climate Action  1.1: US$0.185                              Willingness of private
Plan                    (A*: US$0.065;                                sector to participate
1.1: Calibration of Plans  B*:US$0.05)
1.2: Harmonization of  1.2: US$0.045                                  Availability of counterpart
Plans 1.3: Metropolitan  (A: US$0.015;                                funds
Climate Change Action   B:US$0.002)
Plan                    1.3.: US$0.57                                  Effective project
(A: US$0.32; B: US$0.013)                      management
2.0: Definition of an   2.0: US$ 4.8 million (with
enabling environment to  US$ 2.9 million GEF grant)
facilitate the          2.1: US$ 1.86 million
implementation of      (A: US$1.33; B: US$0.14)
sustainable transport  2.2: US$ 0.51 million
strategies             (A: US$0.29)
2.1:Institutional framework 2.3: US$ 1.65 million
including integration of  (A:US$1.15;B:US$0.27)
metro and bus transport  2.4: US$ 0.25 million
2.2: Reform of bus     (A:US$0.1)
regulations in the corridors 2.5: US$ 0.53 million
2.3: Business and managing (A: US$0.03; B: US$0.23)
structure for operating the
bus corridors
2.4: Measures to promote
metro rider-ship
2.5 Action Plan for
non-motorized options
3.0: Field test of     3.0: US$ 4.8 million (with
Climate-Friendly High  US$ 1.6 million GEF grant)
Capacity Vehicles      3.1: US$ 4.8
3.1: Comparative Field  (A: US$1.5; B: US$0.045;
Test for alternative bus and C: US$0.1)
fuel technologies
4.0: Technical assistance  4.0: US$ 0.8 million (with
- 46 -



and training for       US$ 0.4 million GEF grant)
incorporation of climate
change and air quality  (A: US$ 0.4; C*: US$0.17)
consiaerations in the design
and analysis of transport
strategies
5.0: Public Awareness and 5.0: US$ 0.3 million (with
Dissemination          US$ 0.165 million GEF
5.1: Collection and    grant)
integration of produced  5.1: US$ 0.07 million
information by the project (A: US$0.06)
5.2: Design of public  5.2: US$ 0.05 million
campaign outlining the  (A:US$ 0.01; C: US$ 0.02)
advantages and objectives  5.3: US$ 0.15 million
of transport corridors as  (A: US$ 0.085; B:
well as the benefits from  US$0.01; C: US$ 0.045)
the use of high capacity  5.4: US$ 0.03 million
vehicles and non-mototized (A: US$0.01; C: US$0.005)
modes of transport
5.3: Dissemination of
technical information
produced by project
5.4: Promotion and
financing of workshops and
stakeholder meeting
6.0: Project Management  6.0 US$ 0.7 million (with
6.1: Implementation of the US$ 0.435 million GEF
project                grant)
6.2: Operation of activities 6.1: US$0.15 million
6.3: Final evaluation  (A: US$0.1; B: US$0.025)
6.2: US$ 0.4 million
(A: US$0.235;
B:US$0.125) 6.3: US$ 0.15
million
(A: US$0.1; B: US$0.03)
- 47 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.80 million
GEF Contribution: US$0.4 million                                                           __             __                        __
Cutup. Nseati"   us       s       osit." !ee0,  Acdoviei                                           (w    UO                     RI          Other
1. I Calibmation of   l.l1. IReview of plans                 60.1001                    20,00
Plans                 1.1.2 Calibration of plans             $125,00                      .000
H[amnsozationof 1.2 Harmsonization of   1.2.1 Workshop (Integration and         45.000  ~      w$A
sector stratgies  Plan                  Hamonization of plans)
onsair qalit                            1.3.1 Design of Metropolitan Climate    160,000    $10DA00           00
Integrated                              Change Action Plan
Metropolitan                 ~~~~~~1.3.2 Consttltatton to key stakeholders  $30.000  $&O       $22l0         000O
Climate Change    1.3 Metropolitan      1.3.3 Public consultation              $30,000     15000o      .S 150         510,00
Action Plan for   Clitnate Change       1.3.4 Final presentation of Metropolitan  000D     SO0
rasotin thse  Action Plan          Climate Change Action Plan to key
MCMA                         ~~~~~~~~stakeholders
1.3.5 Monitoring (Actualization) of    330,000       1011         1001
I______    ________            Metropolitan Climat Change Action
Project Component 2 - US$4.80 million
GEF Contribution: US$2.9 million                                                           ____________
2. 1.1Analysis of institutional and    $130.000      1000 
contmercial harriers
2.1 Institutional     2.1.2 Definition of institutional      $137.O00     $00        "     00
Framworkinclding framework for the opserafion of the                                 ,.
integration of mer    corridors
and busumsport  2.1.3 Elaboration of a program proposal $1.217.000  $1.015.0011       .0
and bus ~~~      for the coTrtdors 
2.1.4 Design of an Origin/Destination   376,000      10,01)        ,,6.0       146.SAI
____ ___ ____ ___ Survey__                                 _ _  _    _ _ _  _ ___                  _ _  _ _
2.2 Reform of bus     2.2.1 Analysis of regulatory fransework  $506.ODO   5200.D11      L16.0
rgulasons tn the     tncluding system of quality control of the
orridors            coDrridors____                                         .     .     . 
2.3.1 Analysis of business options forthe  024776                  M736           000
2.3 Business and      operation of the corridors (including 
Defintion  f an managemnteo ststture  analysis of incentives and barriers)                -     ,
forntonofa   onperating the
enabling          corridors             2.3.2 Economiic and financial assesment  092            00      .t~24
nvironment to                '~~~~f the OroPosed buisiness____                    _________
2       facilitate th     2.4 Measures to       2.4.1 Design of promotion for increasing $250,0010  UK= 000                     .
implementation of promote mietro rider.  mietro rider-ship
suistatnable      si
transport                               2.5.1 Analysis of options and conditions  .6000D   so                         5.300
strategies                              for cycle-lanes
2.5.2 Proposal for a regulatory           .          o000                     $4.0(0  -
framwork for the security in the use of
non-motorized transport
2.5.3 Identification and evaluation of    .0                         .0          00.
incentives for the use of non-motorized
2.5 Action Plan for     wpt
non-motorized         2.5.4 Diagnosis and analysis of the     600D0                        00          .0
infrastrucire for the trasference of                      --. 
motorized to non-motorized transport
2.5.5Evaluation of the studies for the  S20,0D00        -     .0
application of an action plan for non-
motorized tansport
2.5.6 Design of promotion campaign for [270.000                       000        .00
I               i~~non-motorized transport 
Total.0000                                                                                               00-                      00          __      __
- 48-



Project Component 3 - US$ 4.80 million
GEF Contribution: US$1.6 million
3 1 1 ElaibmaLion oi Field Tesi Protocol SWD.DO  s         SIO                       ,
3 1 2 Acquismuon of gootu                     SD o.OOO  D  S            .s24000D              .
Fiell Tci of'    3 I Cornpi.-ve Field 3 1 3 TmniOn sioo                                I SW J   1*                          .
u Climtre Fnendly       Tesl for atlrTnu e bs 31 4 Field Iesi                  1.3, 10n0 00            I3h.Q,  1&000
.   HighCapa iry  and fuel Lecnnologies  31 5 Deelop andi apply framework for  s000c60  lwo     pPOO      Wow              00DO
Venl;cles                                              e oi vehc 3e opuoons          .      ,       ,.:.eld,,,          .
_ ________       __________ 3 1.6 Frinal Reporr                       51DODD      1 .-         iW
_Total __   _     __      _o_o __                                                          pO.0 )3wuoO          sW,&A         .n
Project Component 4 - US$0.80 million
GEF Contribution: US$0.4 million
4I Carrying out of a review of the  $ 00ODD 
transport planning regulations of
SETtRAVI
4.2Analysisofcosts-benefltsof       173.,000   s,cd3    ^       D0,
sustainable transport projects.0                                                             e
4 3 Analysis of environmental Impacts of 135C  S*.0,           .                    70.0
sustainable transport pmjects                             .
4 Analysis of clinate change impact  s11.0o    p,990       30,..
assessments of sustainable transport            . .
Technical
Tesbrdcals                ~~~~~~projects                                      -  -      -.     ,,,.'      :"iS   .15,1
SsistancO aind  4 I Technscal       4.5 Development of riethodologies for  125.000  SDA0,         "009                 s5a
tnning for      assistance and uriraung measurement and verification of
uIcorlloralion of  for incorporation of  emissions from public ground transport                  !
climate change  climate change and air 4.6 Training to bus operators, mecbanics, 520,00  AOWJo  ,  .0,
consideratios s q quality coniderations  maintenance staff
in the design and   4.7 Review and development of emission  .m000    l             00                   I,S,OD
the design and  analysis of transport  standards and transport regulasons
anualysiYas of  strategies         proposas to be applied in Metropolitan
tiraneispot~,                                                                                                                    S
IO5tfgles                            4 8 TriMSng and suppon ior contrca.ng  SIOOD D  s.Oi        .
and coordnating market 6rudies
9 TrLinng of offic al and siaffof  OD00      MOO 4       S            i,         '.
UMS. Edosile. DF. boa comp_..e.,
urasnpoil operator. a-adenuis, NGO  on
imlae .har.o a.- uon plan
10 InsuruDonal capacity buiiding ior  I') OOD  120000V.  Stg]o,i. i     ,       _
Ie eecuaung ager;.'
sotal                                                                         SOi                     rr11."                ' I : 10Q0, ,
Project Component 5 - US$0.30 million
GEF Contribution: US$0.165 million
- 49 -



5.1 Collection and  51.1 Collection and integration of  $72.500     6OOF :
integration of      informauon produced by the project
mufonnaton produced
by the Prolect
5 2 Design of Public  5 2 1 Design of publiC CiTPalgi  56!iV       So 9AI )1Od0
campaign            oudining th advanmages and oDjectives as
well as the benefits form nte use of hibg
capacity vehicles and non-motonzed
Public awareness                    rr.ode, ., nai                                 ____S_     _nn._,.__,
anddissemination 5.3 Diserrs-ounoi  5 3 I Area swde niofcauenwis.n oi   I.51       00.0           1 S2YO   ti0iOm    *SIQOO
tenaicnl unortuon   technmeJ ,nrornnaon.
psodused Do tne
project
5 4 Promotion and   5.4.1 Workshops to increase the  5  2.505 03,$                00 .r0
financiag of        participadon of key stakeholders
workshops and                                                     .
_stmkeholders meedngs  ____._________,,;
Total                                                                          350c.O 500a            si.o      p7.e 00         o,~lto  ;.
Project Component 6 - US$0.70 million
GEF Contribution: US$0.335 million
6.1 Implementation of 6.1.1 Implemenation ofproject    $150.000   Isp.eo                  U5,00/               ;
project___L
6      Project          6 2Operation oi    6 21 Operauon ol projeci aumivi-es and  Siao.or  ..90.Jr,   140u00    112515 
Management      pmject acdvites     Informaadon Manern.erl S'siem
6.3.1 Integration and e%al.uon of sne  S isr,S c 50n 0     m,i o      s130.005
6.3 Final evalwdon  projiect results
rTotal                                                                        $700AW3     435WUW ,,, *         .        . -W  . So,A: 3 s.-: 0,
50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $milion    US $million   US $million
Harmonization of sector strategies and CAP                   0.78          0.00          0.78
Enabling Environment for sustainable transport strategies    4.66          0.00          4.66
Field Test                                                   3.16           1.50         4.66
Technical assistance and training                            0.78          0.00          0.78
Public awareness and dissemination                           0.29          0.00          0.29
Project Management                                           0.68          0.00          0.68
Total Baseline Cost                                         10.35           1.50         11.85
Physical Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                         0.30          0.05          0.35
Total Project Costs'              10.65           1.55         12.20
Total Financing Required               10.65           1.55         12.20
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost-By Category -      .         US -          US $ illion   US $million
Goods                                                          1.61           1.55          3.16
0.00
0.00
0.00
Consultant Services                                            9.04                         9.04
Total Project Costs       10.65           1.55         12.20
Total Financing Required       10.65           1.55         12.20
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 12.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 47.54%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 51 -



Annex 4: Incremental Cost and Global Environmental Benefits
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Incremental costs
Overview
The proposed GEF project seeks to contribute to the adoption of policies and measures that will assist in
a long-term modal shift toward climate-friendly, more efficient and less polluting, less carbon intensive
transport in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). Specifically, the project will support aspects
of the implementation of the recently completed Air Quality Management Plan (2002-2010) which are
consistent with the GEF operational program on sustainable transport (OP-II) and the Metropolitan
Climate Change Action Plan.
Context and Broad Development Goals
The MCMA constitutes one of the three largest metropolitan areas in the world. It has 18 million
inhabitants, equivalent to about 19% of the country's entire population, who are being exposed to high
levels of ozone and particulate matter. The MCMA also produces more than a third of the national GDP
and generates, in the process, several million tons of atmospheric pollutants.
Air pollution in MCMA is mostly due to: (i) a high concentration of ozone, produced by the reaction of
volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides in the presence of the sunlight; (ii) carbon monoxide,
nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and hydrocarbons emitted by vehicles fueled with gasoline and diesel;
(iii) sulfur dioxide emitted by industrial processes and commercial services using liquid industrial fuels;
and (iv) particulate matter (PM) in the form of particles smaller than 10 microns (PM1O) emitted by
several sources using diesel and other fuels.
In reaction to the aforementioned problems the Mexican authorities have been working on air quality
improvements for several years. They have reduced the emissions of lead, SOx and CO. On the other
hand, ozone concentrations have remained high, often exceeding acceptable levels. Particulate matter
(PM) levels are also high along heavily congested zones and in areas under the direct influence of wind
erosion and denuded land.
Early last year the Mexican authorities decided to continue this work, through the formulation, design
and implementation of the next stage of Air Quality Management in the MCMA (AQM-EJf:2000-2010).
Its development is based on World Bank sector work that includes studies on: (i) an emissions inventory;
(ii) a health impacts study; (iii) study to harmonize measures to address local and GHG pollution; (iii)
modeling of air quality and impact of courses of action; and (iv) assessment of the economic impact of
courses of action.
As part of the program of Bank assistance, a Bank loan (Second Air Quality and Transport Project) is
being prepared with the objective of reducing the pollution load in from the transport sector, while
improving the safety and efficiency of urban transport management at the metropolitan level. This will be
sought through enhancement of the use of space-efficient and low-polluting transport modes, including
the inter-modal shift from small to high capacity vehicles and strengthening the~ control of emissions from
cargo transport. The GEF project will help lay the foundation for the implemnentation of the loan and also
provide a link between the sector work and the work to be initiated through the loan.
Scope of the analysis
- 52 -



The analysis of physical investments is limited to the single pilot project in the MCMA where
Compressed Natural Gas buses (CNG), Hybrid Diesel Electric buses, and Clean and Standard Diesel
buses will be provided, operated and their performance evaluated. The analysis of the integration of air
quality management and transport planning strategies into a Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan,
economic incentives, regulatory system reforms, removal of barriers, technical assistance, capacity
building, training and dissemination activities will focus on the situation in the MCMA in the context of
the sector work already completed and the current GEF project.
Baseline Scenario
The baseline scenario assumes the continued investment and operation of diesel buses. The emphasis
under the baseline would be on reducing local emissions in the most cost effective way, with little
attention devoted to GHG that would be released. The baseline includes the Sector Work already
completed as background to the ongoing work and the purchase and operation of diesel buses.
The results from implementing the baseline scenario would be positive. The main outcomes would be the
reduction of local pollutants, provision of the bus service and provision of background studies to develop
a plan to reduce air quality in MCMA. However, without the GEF project, GHG emissions abatement
would not be a priority investment in the short term.
GEF Alternative
Due to the nature of Mexico's unbinding commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol, the national efforts to mitigate the current
emissions of GHG will be undertaken based on a gradual and voluntary participation of stakeholders, and
supported by available intemational funding mechanisms to cover the associated incremental costs. As
part of the strategies to mitigate climate change included in the National Communication, Mexico gives
priority to the implementation of programs to improve air quality in the main four metropolitan and
industrial areas. Measures concentrate in five principal areas: cleaner industry, non-polluting vehicles,
efficient transportation, urban planning and environmental recovery. The project is fully consistent with
these federal climate change strategies.
There are two main approaches for reductions in GHG from the transport sector: reducing fuel usage per
passenger-vehicle and shifting to lower-carbon energy sources. The proposed project combines both by
supporting measures and policies to promote the use of high capacity vehicles, more efficient operation
(more passengers per vehicle kilometer) and non-motorized transport. In order to make these gains
possible it is necessary to ensure that climate friendly policies and measures are seen as part of the sector
policies.
The proposed project is complementary to the baseline scenario in that it will reduce GHG emissions
along with local emissions and will lay the framework for similar benefits under the future WB loan. The
total expenditures for the GEF altemative are estimated in the table below.
Global benefits
- 53 -



Global benefits will be achieved by the GEF project in form of (i) development of a plan for addressing
climate change in the transport sector that is consistent with other MCMA plans; (ii) reduction in GHG
emissions through the introduction of a fleet of low carbon emitting buses and encouragement of bicycle
use; (iii) providing field performance data useful in assessing the best options for investment in low
carbon emitting vehicles and enabling the institutional, technical and financial replication in other Latin
American Cities; (iv) increased capacity, reduced barriers and provided incentives for facilitating the
implementation of sustainable, climate friendly transport strategies in the future and for incorporating
climate specific and environmental considerations in the design and analysis of transport options; and (v)
increased public awareness and dissemination of the advantages of transport corridors and climate
friendly technologies leading in the long run to an increased use of high capacity vehicles and
non-motorized modes of transport;
Incremental Aspects of the GEF Project
The GEF Project is with exception of the already completed Sector Work and of the purchase and
operation of diesel buses incremental.
1. Harmonization of Sector Plans and Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan
The baseline for this component includes the already completed Sector Work in support of the
formulation of the Air Quality Management Plan. A Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan wouldn't
be adopted in the short run without the GEF Project which will be integrating plans on air quality,
transport and urban development into a Metropolitan Climate Change Action Plan. The costs associated
with this component are except for the Sector Work incremental.
2. Enabling environment for Sustainable Transport (Barrier Removal and Organizational
Measures)
The associated baseline includes like in the first component only the Sector Work. This component
wouldn't be carried out without the GEF project. It refers to facilitating the implementation of
sustainable, climate friendly transport strategies with special focus on the preparation of the
implementation of corridors. It also includes an action plan for non-motorized transport enabled through
the project. The preparatory work for the corridors, which will be implemented through the Bank Loan,
represents a mayor part of the GEF Project which makes the associated costs incremental except for the
costs of the Sector Work.
3. Field Test
The field test for high capacity vehicles for the demonstration of less polluting, climate friendly transport
alternatives are made possible through the project. The incremental costs of this component result from
subtracting the costs of the baseline scenario, which is assumed as the purchase and operation of diesel
buses and as occurring without the project, from the costs of the field test which includes beside the cost
of the field test and the associated training cost the investment, maintenance and operation costs of
diesel, CNG, and hybrid buses whereas only the associated costs of hybrid buses are considered
incremental.
4. Incorporation of climate and environmental considerations in the design and analysis of
transport strategies
The costs for this component are abstracting from the Sector Work purely incremental as they refer
- 54 -



mainly to sustainable transport projects enabled through the GEF project and further on through the Bank
Loan. This component provides the technical assistance, the capacity building and the training required
for incorporating climate and environmental considerations in the design and analysis of transport
options as well as for the support of the field test only occurring through the GEF Project.
5. Public Awareness and Dissemination
The costs of the baseline of this component are fully incremental due to the fact that the Public
Awareness Campaign and the Dissemination are completely connected to the result and the objectives of
the GEF project. The emphasis here is to promote the advantages and objectives of corridors as well as
the benefits of high capacity and non-motorized transport. In addition, the technical information
produced by the project will be disseminated and the continuity of public awareness will be supported
through workshops and stakeholder meeting in order to deepen the awareness about the importance of
sustainable transport. All these aspects are a result of the project. As this component wouldn't take place
without the GEF project, it is considered incremental.
6. Project Management
Due to the fact that the Project Management relates fully to the GEF Project the associated costs are
completely incremental. This component includes the implementation of the project, the operational
integration of the activities and finally the evaluation of the project's results.
Incremental Cost of the GEF Project
The implementation of the Baseline scenario would entail costs estimated at US$4.1 million, while the
GEF alternative would incur costs estimated at US$12.2 million. The additional costs associated with the
implementation of project are estimated at US$8.1 million. The GEF will fund US$5.8 million of this as
part of the project. Other cofinancing sources will fund the balance.
Incremental Cost Matrix (all figures in US$ million)
Revenues from collection of fares were not considered as the revenues would be the same under the
baseline and the alternative.
Cost       Baseline  Alternative  Incremental    Domestic    Global Benefits
Categories     Current   Enabling       Costs       Benefits
situation environment,
removal of
barriers and
field test
1.             0.4        0.8         0.4                         Basis for action
Harmonization                                                    in transport
of Sector Plans                                                   sector
& Metropolitan
Climate
Change Action
P la n_          _ _  _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _
2. Enabling    1.5       4.8          3.3          Facilitate     Facilitate
Environment                                        implementation  implementation
(Barrier Removal                                   of sustainable  of sustainable,
- 55 -



and                                                transport      climate friendly
Organizational                                                    transport
Measures)
3. Field Test
Fixed Costs of  1.3      1.9          0.6          Reduction of   Reduction of
Buses (buses,                                      local pollutants, GHG emissions
fueling facilities,                                fuel savings
drivers)
Variable Costs of 0.5    0.7          0.2          Buses can serve Buses can reduce
Buses (fuel and                                    the needs of   GHG emissions
maintenance)                                       consumers and  as designed
reduce local
pollution as
designed
Field Test     0         2.2          2.2          Field data for  Field data for
(including                                         assessing best  assessing best
test protocol                                      options for    options for
emission testing,                                  investments in  investments in
reports, training,                                 low emitting   low carbon
framework for                                      vehicles and for emitting vehicles
evaluation of                                      replication in  and for
alternative                                        other cities   replication in
vehicle options)                                                  other cities
4. Incorporation 0.4     0.8          0.4                         Form basis for
of climate and                                                    expansion of
environmental                                                     program of low
considerations in                                                 carbon emitting
the design and                                                    vehicles
analysis of
transport options
5. Public      0         0.3          0.3          Increased public Increased
Awareness and                                      image of public  awareness of role
Dissemination                                      transport      of transport in
climate change.
More political
and public
support for CC
agenda
6. Project     0         0.7          0.7          Improved       Effective
Management                                         efficiency and  implementation
managerial     of global climate
knowledge      change aspects
of project
Total Costs     4.1      12.2         8.1
- 56 -



Emnission's Model of Mobil Sources in the Metropolitan Region
Using the Model:
The model works by changing the numbers of vehicles In circulation, or their daily mileage, in order to
change the total vehicle-kms by vehicle type. This number is then multiplied by emissions factors (grams/km)
which are calculated for the age and mileage distribution of the ZMVA - shown in the sheets labeled
accordingly for each pollutant (but it is not necessary to look at this to run the model).
The input sheet is where the user inputs data for two scenarios, A and B, which are compared at the bottom.
The altemative modes are available for the user to input modes for which the emissions
factors are different than the categories available. The two altemative modes' emissions factors are input by the user
on the altematives sheet. In the input and altematives sheet, all user changes will be made in YELLOW blocks.
1. Input the fracton of all travel which is in congested conditions, labelrefak Share
2. Change vehicle numbers, or daily mileage, by type
3. Add or change altematives' emissions factors, and vehicle numbers or daily mileage.
Scenario Summaries:
i?jyen   W!   C024kgsi     HC         co            NOx        PM-10      sox
A                Autos (trips)   9.000 000   9    17 681,344  136.168.434  1,205.212,834  100,478.829  2,065.549  6,210,000
Taxis          .t .100,000. i 200  4,270,856  32,890.926  291,114,211  24,270,249  498,925  1,500,000
Pickup            500000    75    9,976,602  133,276,599  1,110,498,460  57,796,397  934,174  3,593,750
Micros             50 000  Iso    2,070.958  71.677,500  589,500,000  19,280,266  190,150  1,250,000
Autobuses          10.000  Iso    2,214,221   7.326.780   13,890,000  23,616,120  1.909,625  312,500
Garga (pesada)    200000   100   29.522,942  97,690,400  185.200,000  314,881,600  25,461,667  4,166,667
Altematveal            0     0          0           0            0           0          0         0
Altemative2           - 0    0          0           0            0           0          0         0
total grams:     65,736,922  479,030,638  3,395.415,505  540,323,460  31,060,089  17,032,917
Peak Share = 0.50
ton/day                                              65,737        479         3,395        540        31         17
tontyear                                         23,993,977     174,846    1,239,327     197,218    11,337     6,217
*y,I'v_  A7h7d    C02 (kgs)    HC            CO             NOx           PM-10       SOx
Autos (trips)      8,500,000      9    16,336,024  125,807,792   1,113,511,857   92,833,701    1,908,387   5,737,500
Taxis                 75.000   200u     3,203,142   24,668,194    218,335,658    18,202,686     374,194    1,125,000
Pickup               500.000    75      9,976,602  133,276,599   1,110,498,460   57,796,397     934,174   3,593,750
Micros               .40,000 t150       1,658,767   57,342,000    471,600,000    15,424,213     152,120    1,000,000
Autobuses           ,  8,500   150     1,882,088    6,227,763      11,806,500   20,073,702    1,623,181    265,625
Garga (pesada)       200 000  :,100   29,522,942    97,690,400     185,200,000  314,881,600  25,461,667   4,166,667
Altemativel            1.500   200       300,000       240,000        750,000     1,500,000      60,000      39,000
Altemative2        :       0      0 j          0             0               0            0           0           0
total grams:        62,877,564   445,252,748  3,111,702,476   520,712,299  30,513,723  15,927,542
- 57 -



Gas-Leve = personal cars, and taxis
Gas-Med = light trucks
Gas-Grnde = Micros
Diesel-Grnde = Heavy Trucks
fonte = 'Inventario..."
Gas-Leve Gas-Med Gas-Grnde Diesel-Grnde
1000 vehicles
1998      200       40        0       16
1997      175       35        0       14
1996      150       30        0       12
1995      230       46        0      18.4
1994      260       52        1      20.8
1993      250       50        2       20
1992      230       46       14      18.4
1991      200       40       15       16
1990      180       36        9      14.4
85/89          250       50        9       20
80/84          200       40        0       16
75/79          175       35        0       14
sum           2500      500       50      200
1000 vehicle*kms/day|      l        l
1998 11506.85 2739.726        0      960
1997 9589.041 2205.479        0      840
1996 7808.219 1808.219        0      720
1995 11342.47 2520.548        0      1104
1994 12109.59 2706.849      200     1248
1993   10958.9  2397.26     400     1200
1992 9452.055 2079.452     2800     1104
1991 7671.233 1676.712     3000      960
1990 6657.534 1410.411     1800      864
85/89     7534.247 1438.356     1800     1200
80/84     4931.507 876.7123        0      960
75/79     3547.945 652.0548        0      840
total:    103109.6 22511.78    10000    12000
average
kms/day   41.24384 45.02356      200       60
share of total vehicle kms in each vehicle age group:(this is used to multiply through the emissions factors)
- 58 -



|Gas-Leve |___     |Gas-Grnde Diesel-Grnde
km/day   |         km/day
1998       58        68      200       60
1997       55        63      200       60
1996       52        60      200       60
1995       49        55      200       60
1994       47        52      200       60
1993       44        48      200       60
1992       41      /45       200       60
1991       38        42      200       60
1990       37        39      200       60
85/89           30       29       200       60
80/84           25       22       200       60
75/79           20        19      200       60
Gas-Leve Gas-Med Gas-Grnde Diesel-Grnde
1 000*km/year
1998       21        25       60       18
1997       20        23       60        18
1996        19       22       60        18
1995       18        20     _ 60        18
1994       17        19       60       18
1993       16      17.5       60        18
1992       15      16.5       60        18
1991       14      15.3       60       18
1990      13.5     14.3       60       18
85/89           11      10.5       60       18
80/84            9        8        60       18
75/79          7.4       6.8       60       18
- 59 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Years Ending
2002- 2007
| - .-   IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
| Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          7.1       3.0       1.4       0.3       0.4       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         7.1       3.0       1.4       0.3       0.4       0.0      0.0
Total Financing             7.1       3.0       1.4       0.3       0.4       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Government                1.7      0.1        0.2       0.2       0.2      0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers(Shell      3.7        0.2       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Foundation, and private
local sources including bus
manufacturers)
GEF                         1.7       2.7       1.1       0.1       0.2      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   7.1        3.0       1.4       0.3       0.4      0.0        0.0
|t tN'f7DIgE:O  , NA0!  P ERIOD ;   '             - 
| Yearl      Year 2  | Year 3  l Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Financing            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDMIDA                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers(Shell      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Foundation, and private
local sources including bus
manufacturers)
GEF                        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 60 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Procurement
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Exept as otherwise provided in part C of this section, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a) Grouping of contracts To the extend practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b) Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors  The
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to
goods manufactured in the territory of  the UMS.
(c) Notification and advertisin2  The General Procurement Notice to be published in the
Development Business, shall be updated annually for outstanding procurement. All invitation to
bid shall be published in the UMS' public electronic advertising and bidding system
(COMPRANET) and in the UMS' Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n). To obtain
expressions of interest for large consultant assignments (contracts expected to cost more that
US$200,000 equivalent) a specific procurement notice shall be also published in Development
Business.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. International and National Shoppin2      Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
- 61 -



Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement Plannins Prior to issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2. Prior Review    With respect to each contract for goods procured following the procedures
under Parts B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3. Post Review     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Proiect SPecific Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement under this project are described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values
for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project will consist of purchasing of equipment, inputs, software,
totaling US$3.16 million equivalent of which the GEF will finance US$0.34 million equivalent.
Contracts for these goods will be procured following International Shopping Procedures (ISP).
Because the Recipient wishes to reserve the procurement of buses, costing about US$2.0 million
equivalent, for one specific brand, this reserve procurement will not be financed by the Bank and
a co-financier will finance this procurement.
Section II Emplovment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I and IV of
the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Recipients" published
by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the
Consultant Guidelines), paragraph lof Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B: Oualitv- and Cost-based Selection
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines and
- 62 -



the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of
consultants.
2.     The following provision shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of consultants, for
services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.     Least-cost Selection      Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate amount of $1,780,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.    Individual Consultants     Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines up to an aggregate amount of
$2,360,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.     Selection Planning  A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract
cost estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any
requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the execution of the
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. Selection of
all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from
time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank.
2.     Prior Review       (a)    With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)    With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of
candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have
been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply
to such contracts.
3.     Post Review  With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Proiect Specific Procurement Methods
Services will be contracted under this project in the following areas consultants, training,
dissemination, public campaign and buses maintenance. These services are estimated to cost
US$9.04 million equivalent and would be procured using World Bank Standard Request of
- 63 -



Proposals, non-consultant services costing about US$1.78 million will be selected on LCS
procedures.
Firms. All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS procedures except for small
contracts for assignments of standard or routing nature and estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent that would be procured using LCS up to an aggregate amount of US$
1.78 million. Single-Source Selection only will be acceptable, previous Bank Non Objection, to
assignments when only one firm is qualified or has experience of exceptional worth.
Individuals.  Specialized advisory services would be provided by individuals consultants
selected by comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 5.1 to 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregated amount
of US$2.36 million equivalent.
Prior review: The prior review arrangements are presented in Table B.
Procurement plan. The Procurement Plan is attached and satisfactory. Each November, the
Recipient would update the procurement schedule for the following year, including the ICB
procedures, the smaller procurement, the consultancy and non-consultant services to be financed
under the proposed Grant following the model procurement plan.
Section III-Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
A procurement capacity assessment for the project was carried out by Ms. Lea Braslavsky,
Country Procurement Specialist, LCOPR, and approved by RPA on July 5, 2002. The National
Development Bank (BANOBRAS), one of the three financial intermediary institutions of the
Mexican Government will be responsible for: (i) reviewing all procurement procedures and bid
evaluation reports submitted by SAT, (ii) give the no-objection for the award of contracts below
the agreed threshold for Bank prior review; and (iii) maintaining all the corresponding records.
BANOBRAS' performance under previous Bank financing projects was satisfactory. The Bank's
Implementation Unit in Mexico will provide procurement advice to the executing agency
Secretaria del Medio Ambiente (SMA) and BANOBRAS as required, and carried out the Bank's
fiduciary functions delegated to it.
To ensure SMA's staff knowledge of World Bank procurement Guidelines and procedures, a
special procurement seminar will be given by the Mexico Resident Mission to SMA's staff.
During project preparation, BANOBRAS and SMA have confirmed their will for ethical
behavior and have expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive selection and
transparency in all activities. The Operational Manual will include a chapter call "Code of Ethic"
Based on the above procurement risk for the project is rated as "average".
Section IV: Procurement Monitoring
The SMA will prepare annually a Procurement Plan satisfactory to the World Bank and establish
procedures for monitoring project execution and impact, procurement implementation, including
- 64 -



monitoring of contracts. The SMA as well as BANOBRAS will maintain detailed records of
procurement activities.
Review by the Bank. The proposed threshold for prior review by the World Bank are based on
the procurement assessment of the project executing agency and are summarized in Table B. In
addition to this review of individual procurement actions, the annual procurement plan will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank, as well as procurement audits to be carried out during the
life of the project.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) the
post-review mission for the project shall be completed every 6 months and shall cover not less
than 1 in 20 contracts signed.
- 65 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method,
k Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB           Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00           1.16         2.00        3.16
Equipment, Inputs, Maintenance,     (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.34)        (0.00)      (0.34)
Software, Fuel, Buses, Fueling
Facilities
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          7.26          0.00        7.26
Consultants                         (0.00)          (0.00)         (4.81)       (0.00)      (4.81)
0.00            0.00           1.78         0.00        1.78
Services                            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.65)       (0.00)      (0.65)
Total                             0.00            0.00          10.20         2.00        12.20
(0.00)          (0.00)         (5.80)       (0.00)      (5.80)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
project management office, training, technical assistance services.
- 66 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
.-      , I           | ,,    Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  OBS      SFB    LCS      cO     Other' N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              4.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     4.90
(3.30)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.30)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     2.36    0.00    0.00     2.36
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.51)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.51)
C. Non-Consultant     0.00    0.00    0.00   1.78     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.78
Services              (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00) (0.65)  (0.00)  (0-00)  (0.00)    (0.65)
Total  6.00    0.00    0.00    1.78    1.26    0.00    0.00     9.04
(4.24)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.65)  (0.57)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (5.46)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 67 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
-  .  , Threshold    I       Procurement.            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     '(US thousands)             Method'               (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                      >100,000         International Competitive         All
Bidding (ICB)
<100,000            Shopping at least 3           None
suppliers
3. ServicesConsulting         >200,000             QCBS-Short List               All
Services                                             International
Firms                         <200,000           QCBS-Short List may             All
comprise Only National
<200,000               Consultants                TORs
LCS
Individuals                    >50,000                       .    .              All
<50,000          Consultant Qualifications       TORs
Consultant Qualifications
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 1,14 mnillion
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every six months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Following OP/BP 10.02 a certified Financial Management Specialist carried out an assessment of the
institutional capacity of the project coordinator unit at the SMA. This evaluation was carried out during
project appraisal.
2. Audit Arrangements
Project will be annually audited satisfactory to the Bank, based on (i) applicable Bank guidelines and
procedures, (ii) Technical Memorandum of Understanding on auditing agreed between the GOM and the
Bank, and (iii) TOR annually agreed between implementing entity and the Bank.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Project arrangements were agreed during appraisal.
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Goods                                     0.34                         86
Consultants' Services                     5.46            83 of local expenditures and 100 of
foreign expenditures
Total Project Costs                       5.80
Total                                     5.80
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Use of traditional disbursement procedures or the new Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) was agreed
during appraisal.
Special account:
The authorized allocation, initial deposit and aggregated accounts will be defined during appraisal. The
special account will be established in the Central bank (Banco de Mexico) and will be managed by the
local development bank (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Piblicos).
Disbursement categories and amounts are indicated in Table C. The project is expected to be disbursed
over a eight-year period.
The financial management assessment was carried out by an specialist. This review was based on
applicable Bank's guidelines, and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting system, intemal
control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well as the format
and contents of the Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) to be quarterly submitted by SMA (with support
of BANOBRAS). The assessment conclusion is that SMA does not have in place an adequate project
financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information in the format of FMRs as required by the Bank, however, SMA existing system satisfies the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements for project implementation. SMA, with the
support of BANOBRAS, is taking actions to adjust its existing systems to be in compliance with all Bank
- 69 -



requirements for similar projects.
It is planed that traditional disbursement methods (SOEs, special commitments and direct payments) will
be used.
A Special Account (SA) in US dollars with an initial deposit of US $0.560 million would be established
at the local central bank (Banco de Mdxico). This SA will be replenished and will be used for all
transactions with a value of less than 20% of the amount advanced to it. Traditional full documentation
apply for direct payments, special commitments and SOEs. If project is converted to FMR-based
disbursements, procedures must be agreed between the GOM and the Bank and must be satisfactory to
Bank before migration.
SMA in coordination with BANOBRAS will prepare the necessary documentation for prompt
disbursements. Considering the size of the contracts, all goods, operating costs and subprojects, and most
of the consultant services, are expected to be disbursed via SOEs (all contracts for goods, consultant firm
contracts below US $100,000.00, individual consultant contracts below US $50,000.00, all expenditures
for subprojects, training and operating costs).
SMA will maintain separate project records and accounts, which reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices compatible with International Accounting Standards (IAS), the operations,
resources and expenditures of each project activity. The unit will be audited on annual basis by
independent auditors in line with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) or compatible standards
satisfactory to the Bank and on TOR acceptable to the Bank as well. The audit report will be prepared
based in a similar document to the existing Memorandum of Technical Understanding on Auditing
(MET) and on applicable Bank's guidelines. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank within the
four months after the end of each audited fiscal year.
Action Plan (critical activities)
This activities, which will be reflected as effectiveness conditions, will be agreed during
Negotiations and must be implemented to ensure satisfactory project financial management.
*      Existing Financial Management Systems must be adjusted to adequately handle project
implementation (including preparation of FMRs). SMA will be responsible of this activity and
must coordinate it with Banobras. This activity must be completed before project effectiveness.
*      Preparation of satisfactory TOR for the first audit and preselection of the external audit
firm (in coordination with the Contralorfa General del Gobierno del Distrito Federal and SMA's
internal audit department). SMA will be responsible of this activity in coordination with
concerned agencies. This activity must be completed before project effectiveness.
*      The Financial Management section of the Project Manual (which will specify procedures
and requirements on implementing entity project operation, funds flow, staffing, accounting
policies and procedures, internal audit, external audit, reporting and monitoring -including
format and contents of the FMRs- and (viii) information systems. SMA will be responsible of
this activity, which must be completed before project effectiveness.
Risk Analysis. Overall risk is Moderate tending to substantial.
- 70 -



Risk               Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent Risk Moderate
Control Risk  Moderate tending to substantial
Inherent risk is the susceptibility of the project financial management system to factors arising from the
environment in which it operates, such as country rules and regulations and entity working environment.
Control risk is the risk that the project's accounting and internal control framework are inadequate to
ensure project funds are used economically and efficiently and for the purpose intended, and that the use
of funds is properly reported. The rating for this specific project is the following:
*     Inherent risks: (i) country-negligible/low (ii) entity-moderate and (iii) project-moderate.
Finally, the operation also draws upon the near complete, Mexico Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA), which covers public financial accountability arrangements at the federal level:
budget management, accounting and reporting, Treasury, Management Information System (SIAFF),
internal controls and external audit. Based on the diagnostic work performed to date, the CFAA Task
Tea:n is of the opinion that, at the federal government level, Mexico has adequate public financial
management capacity and reliable information systems, and that there is a considerable degree of
external transparency. Although Mexico continues to improve its public financial management
framework, procedures and systems, the mere volume of transactions calls for expediting and
incorporating a more efficient and effective approach to the administrative aspects of public finances
management - including accounting and financial reporting - and for making internal and external audit
functions more systematic and risk-based. The CFAA report will offer detailed analyses, conclusions and
recommendations on these areas.
*      Control risk: (i) implementing entity-moderate (ii) funds flow-moderate (iii) staffing-substantial
(iv) accounting policies and procedures-negligible/low (v) internal audit-negligible/low (vi) external
audit-moderate (vii) reporting and monitoring-moderate and (viii) information systems-substantial. SMA
is implementing corrective actions to ensure that those risk are properly mitigated before project becomes
effective. BANOBRAS is providing assistance to ensure that project risk is reduced at the negligible/low
level.
Auditing. SMA will maintain the records, accounts, files and project documentation, and will produce
standard financial statements according to International Accounting Standards (IAS). All project
documentation and records are responsibility of SMA, and all Special Account documentation and
records (including monthly SA's statements) are the responsibility of BANOBRAS. Project operations
will be audited on annually basis in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (compatible
with International Standards on Auditing ISAs and satisfactory to the Bank) and procedures consistently
applied, by an independent and qualified auditor (based on applicable Bank guidelines and TOR for
auditing). Both TOR and auditor must be satisfactory to the Bank on annually basis. The audit report
(including financial statements and its opinion, inform on the internal controls and the compliance with
laws, regulations and agreements) will be submitted to the Bank within four months after each audited
fiscal year. The Contraloria General del Gobierno del Distrito Federal and SMA's internal auditor will
coordinate with implementing agency SMA annual audits. A section providing details on auditing will be
included in project manual.
Audit reports that will be required to be submitted by each project implementation agency and the
due date for submission.
- 71 -



Audit Report                               Due Date
Entity                                    Not applicable
Project/SOE                               Annually starting June 30, 2003
Special Account                           Annually starting June 30, 2003
Other such as (i) internal control and (ii) Annually starting June 30, 2003
compliance. All those required on the
Technical Memorandum of Understanding
on  Auditing   MET    and  TOR    agreed
between the Federal level and the Bank.
Those   reports  are  included  in   the
Project/SOE audit report.
Conditions.
The following activities will be included in legal documents as effectiveness conditions: (i)
existing Financial Management Systems must be adjusted to adequately handle project
implementation -including preparation of FMRs- (ii) preparation of satisfactory TOR for the first
audit review and preselection of the external audit firm and (iii) inclusion of the Financial
Management section in the Project Manual.
The following activities will be included as negotiation conditions:  (i) an operational financial
management area within the SMA (this areas must include a full time financial management expert and a
full/part time analyst) and (ii) first draft of the Financial Management section of the Project Manual.
Supervision Plan. Financial management supervision missions will be carried out twice a year during
the first project implementation year, and at least once a year the following years. This missions will be
carried out by the Financial Management Specialist in coordination with project team/TTL.
Flow of Funds Analysis. The projected disbursements under all components and for all activities has
been completed and is attached as Annex 5 . The analysis shows that a substantial requirement for
project funds is expected in years one and two, with most of the funds being required in year two. The
average flow of funds over the four year period is US$390,000 every four months. However, the
average for the first two years is estimated at US$560,000. On this basis, the special account is
suggested to have an initial allocation of US$560,000.
- 72 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Project Schedule                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     12
First Bank mission (identification)            01/07/2002
Appraisal mission departure                    07/01/2002
Negotiations                                   08/05/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  11/15/2002
Prepared by:
SMA, SETRAVI and STE
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Speciality
Walter Vergara                   Lead Chemical Engineer
Juan Andres L6pez - Silva        Environmental Specialist
Mauricio Cuellar                 Transport Specialist
Gerhard Menckhoff                Consultant Transport Specialist
Carl-Heinz Mumme                 Consultant Transport Economics
Seraphine Haeussling             Consultant
Aaron Golub                      Consultant Transport Specialist
John Morton                      Consultant
Jose Ram6n G6mez                 Consultant
Alexandra Zenzes                 Consultant
Esme Abedin                      Operations Analyst
Lea Braslavsky                   Procurement Specialist
Victor Ord6fiez                  Financial Specialist
Heather Maclean                  Transport Specialist
Ricardo Hemandez                 Environmental Specialist
- 73 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
A. Project Implementation Plan
The PIP can be found in the project files.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The Project Concept Document (PCD) and other comments in project file.
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis to Evaluate Cleaner Vehicles: methodology with a Case Study in Mexico
City, The World Bank, June 2000.
Improving Air Quality in Metropolitan Mexico City An Economic Valuation, Policy Research Working
Paper, World Bank, February 2002.
C. Other
Air Quality Management Report, National Institute of Ecology, Mexico, 1996.
Audit of Transportation and Air Quality Program for Mexico City, Final Report, ICF Consulting, 2000.
Estudio de Prefactibilidad para la Introducci6n de Autobuses Hibridos para el Servicio de Transporte
Publico de la ZMVM e Identificaci6n de Barreras a ser Superadas, UNAM, Mexico, 2000.
Estudio Integral de Transporte y Calidad del Aire en la Zona Metropolitana del Valle de Mexico,
COMETRAVI, Volumes 1-8 of, M6xico, 1999
GEF Strategy for Development of Fuel Cell Buses for the Developing World, UNDP, New York, 2001.
Hybrid-Electric Drive, Heavy-Duty Vehicle Testing Project, Final Emissions Report, West Virginia
University, February 2000.
Implementation Completion Report Mexico Transport Air Quality Management Project for the Mexico
City Metropolitan Areas, World Bank, Washington D.C., June 2000.
Inventario de Emisiones a la Atm6sfera en la Zona Metropolitana del Valle de Mexico, CAM (Comisi6n
Ambiental Metropolitana), Mexico, 1999.
Llegando Tarde al Compromiso: la Crisis del Transporte en la Ciudad de Mexico, El Colegio de Mexico,
Vfctor Islas Rivera, Mexico 2000.
Metropolitan Mexico City Mobility & Air Quality. White Paper for the MIT Integrated Program on
Urban, Regional And Global Air Pollution, Zegras, C. et al., 2000.
Mexico 2a. Comunicaci6n Nacional ante la Convenci6n Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio
Climatico, Secretarfa de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT) e Instituto Nacional de
Ecologia (1INE), Mexico 2001.
- 74 -



NYCT Operating Experience with Hybrid Transit Buses, World Bus & Clean Fuel Summit, Los Angeles,
June 2000.
Preparation of the Air Quality Component of the Argentina Pollution management Project. Final Report
Vol 1, Executive Summary, Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Sustentable, Republica de
Argentina, January 1999.
Programa para Mejorar la Calidad del Aire de la Zona Metropolitana del Valle de Mdxico 2002-2010,
Secretarfa de Ecologia del Gobiemo del Estado de Mexico, Secretarfa de Medio Ambiente del Gobiemo
del Distrito Federal, Secretarfa de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales y Secretarfa de Salud, Mexico
2002.
Propuesta Preliminar: Disenio Funcional y Proyecto del Corredor Eje Central, Urbanismo y Sistemas de
Transporte, SA de CV, Mexico, 2001.
Reducing Greenhouse Gases and Air Pollution A Menu of Harmonized Options, STAPPA and ALAPCO,
October 1999.
Study for Bus-Collectivo Substitution Program and 33 Bus Corridors, SETRAVI, Mexico, 1999.
Transportation in Mexico City, Sheinbaum, C. and Meyers, S., Energy for Sustainable Development,
Volume 2, No. 3, 1995..
Transportation Policy in Mexico City, Wirth, C., Urban Affairs Review, Vol 33, No 2., 1997
Urban Structure, Energy, and Environmental Quality in the Metropolitan Area of Mexico City: Indicators
of Sustainability, Secretary of the Environment of Mexico City, 1999.
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
05-Sep-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P060686         203 MX Municipal Dev in Rural Areas                400.00       0.00                0.00       0.00    400.00       0.00      0.00
P070108        2003 MX Savings & Credit Sector Strengthening        64.60       0.00                0.00       0.00     64.60       0.00      0.00
P074539        2003 MX Programmatic EnvSAL                         202.02       0.00                0.00       0.00    202.02       0.00      0.00
P057531        2002 MX Basic Ed. APL II                            300.00       0.00                0.00       0.00    300o00     105.00      0.00
P060577        2002 MX Southeast Reg'l Development LIL               5.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      4.45      -0.13      0.00
P077602       2002 MX Teax Admin Institutional Development          52.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     52.00       0.00      0.00
P065988        2002 GEF MX Consolidat.Prot Areas (SINAP II)          0.00       0.00                16.10      0.00      7.01       9.55      0.00
P074750        2002 MX Tax Reform Adjustment Loan                  303.04       0.00                0.00       0.00    303.04       0.00      0.00
P060908        2001 GEF MX-MESO AMERICAN CORRIDOR                    0.00       0.00               14.64       0.00     14.41       3.74      0.00
P063463       2001 METHANE CAPTURE & USE AT A LANDFILL               0.00       0.00                6.27       0.00      4.76       2.91      0.88
P064887        2001 DISASTER MANAGEMENT (ERL)                      404.05       0.00                0.00     200.00    195.17      87.79      0.00
P065779       2001 FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT             218.00       0.00                0.00       0.00    189.15     -26.85      0.00
P066321       2001 MX: li BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT               350.00       0.00                0.00       0.00    350.00       0.00      0.00
P066674       2001 GEF MX-indigenous&Community Biodiversity          0.00       0.00                7.50       0.00      6.83       2.74      0.00
P071323       2001 BankRestructunngFacilityll                      505.06       0.00                0.00       0.00    350.01     116.68      0.00
P057530        2000 RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII (APL)                       55.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     38.92       6.59      0.00
P060718        2000 GEF MX ALTERNATIVE ENERGY                        0.00       0.00                8.90       0.00      6.84       7.53      0.00
P066938       2000 MX GENDER (LIL)                                   3.07       0.00                0.00       0.00      2.73       1.72      -0.10
P007610        1999 FOVI RESTRUCTURING                             505.50       0.00                 0.00      0.00    312.00     312.00      0.00
P048505        1999 AGRICULTURALPRODUCT                            444.45       0.00                 0.00      0.00     101.64     38.46     -32.02
P007711        1998 MX RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA (APL)                   47.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     28.77      24.77      0.00
P044531        1998 MX KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                          300.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     186.76     93.43      0.00
P049895        1998 MX HIGHER ED. FINANCING                         180.20      0.00                 0.00      0.00     136.43     87.01      0.00
P055061        1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                     25.00       0.00                 0,00      0.00       1.12      1.12      0.00
P007720        1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                 700.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     150.00    150.00     150.00
P007700        1997 COMMUNITY FORESTRY                              15.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      5.18       5.18      0.00
P007713        1996 WATER RESOURCES MANA                           186.50       0.00                 0.00     40.00     72.09     104.42      -0.08
P034490        1995 MX TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                     265.00       0.00                 0.00     83.69     26.97     110.66     80.63
P007710        1994 N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                           368.00       0.00                 0.00    328.00       7.29    335.29     61.89
P007648        1993 MX MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                        200.00       0.00                 0.00     65.50      38.27    103.77     80.77
Total:    6098.49        0.00             53.61       717.19    3558.45    1681.35    341.97
- 76 -



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval        Company                    Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1988/91/92/93/95  Apasco                      10.80   0.00    0.00   43.20   10.80   0.00    0.00   43.20
1998              Ayvi                         8.57   0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57   0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96        BANAMEX                     46.19   0.00    0.00    0.00   46.19   0.00     0.00   0.00
0                  BBVA-Bancomer              51.76    0.00   0.00    0.00   51.76    0.00    0.00   0.00
1995/99           Baring MexFnd                0.00    2.73   0.00    0.00    0.00   2.33     0.00   0.00
1998              CIMA Mexico                  0.00   4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   4.80    0.00    0.00
1998              CIMA Puebla                  6.75   0.00    0.00    0.00    3.25   0.00     0.00   0.00
1994              CTAPV                        2.59   0.00    1.48    0.00    2.59   0.00     1.48   0.00
1997              Chiapas-Propalma             0.00    1.02   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.89     0.00   0.00
1997              Comercializadora             2.19 . 0.00    1.56    3.75    2.19   0.00     1.56   3.75
2001              Compartamos                  1.00    0.66   0.00    0.00    1.00    0.66    0.00   0.00
2002              Coppel                      30.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1999              Corsa                       11.14    3.00   0.00    0.00   11.14   3.00     0.00   0.00
2001              Ecomex                       5.00    0.00   1.50    0.00    3.00    0.00    1.50   0.00
2000              Educacion                    6.50    0.00   0.00    0.00    4.90    0.00    0.00   0.00
1997              Fondo Chiapas                0.00   4.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.54     0.00   0.00
1998              ForjaMonterrey              11.14    3.00   0.00   11.14   11.14   3.00     0.00  11.14
1991/96           GIBSA                       16.23   0.00    0.00   54.57   16.23   0.00     0.00  54.57
1993              GIDESA                       1.25    0.00   0.00    0.00    1.25   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996/00           GIRSA                       45.00   0.00    0.00   60.00   45.00   0.00     0.00  60.00
1993              GOTM                         0.33   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33   0.00     0.00   0.00
Grupo BBVA                  0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.67    0.00    0.00
0                 Grupo Calidra               10.00    6.00   0.00    7.50   10.00    6.00    0.00    7.50
1998              Grupo FEMSA                  0.00    2.85   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.85    0.00   0.00
Grupo Minsa                 12.00   0.00    0.00   18.00   12.00   0.00    0.00   18.00
1989              Grupo Posadas               25.00   0.00    10.00   0.00   25.00   0.00    10.00   0.00
1997              Grupo Sanfandila             7.53   0.00    0.00    3.20    6.20   0.00     0.00   2.53
1992/93/95/96/99  Hospital ABC                30.00   0.00    0.00   14.00    5.29   0.00     0.00   3.71
1998              ITR                         14.00    0.00   0.00    4.00   14.00    0.00    0.00   4.00
2000              Innopack                     0.00   15.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Interceramic                 0.00    0.00   2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00
2000              InverCap                     0.00    0.07   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00
1994              Merida HI                   29.17   0.00    0.00   70.35   29.17    0.00    0.00  70.35
2000/01           Mexplus Puertos              0.00    1.41   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1998              NEMAK                        0.00   0.00    1.51    0.00    0.00   0.00     1.51   0.00
1995/99           Pan American                 0.00    9.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99/00/01     Plata                       10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Puertas Finas               13.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              Qualita                      3.50    2.50    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002              Rio Bravo                   50.00    0.00    0.00  59.50   50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50
2002              Saltillo S.A.               34.50    0.00   0.00   41.95   34.50    0.00    0.00   41.95
2000              Servicios                   10.50    1.90   0.00    10.00  10.50    1.90    0.00   10.00
2000              Su Casita                    1.88   10.62   0.00    0.00    1.88   10.62    0.00    0.00
2000              TMA                          2.35    0.00    2.60   8.14    2.35    0.00    2.60    8.14
2001
1997
Total Portfolio:     514.15   96.71   20.65  409.30  454.51   80.40   20.65  398.34
Approvals Pending Commitment
- 77 -



FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               GFNorte-CL                      100.00     0.00      0.00    100.00
2002               La Bene                           5.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1992               BANAMEX-RISK MGT                40.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1993               GOTM                              0.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
1993               APASCO (IV)                       1.43     0.00      0.00      0.00
1996               GRUPO POSADAS IV                  3.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1998               Cima Hermosillo                   7.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               BANAMEX LRF nI                   50.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               Grupo Posadas V                   1.40     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Educacion                         3.20     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               PanAme-La Colora                  0.00     0.00       1.20     0.00
2001               BBVA-Bancomer CL                100.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Ecomex                            3.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       315.03     0.00       1.20   100.00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      98.0      516       647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  5,070     3,680    4,620
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                    497.0     1,895    2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        1.5       1.6      1.3
Labor force (%)                                       2.5       2.3      2.0     GNI                              Gross
per                            pri mary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty Iine)
Urban population (% ottotalpopulation)                74        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      72        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              29        30        28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             8         9         ..         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  86        85        87
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   9        12        10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)  114      113       107        -M     xico
Male                                               116        ..       106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             113        ..       105
KEY ECONOMiC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios,
GDP (US$ billions)                         223.5   262.7      479.4    574.5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                27.2     23.1      23.5     23.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           10.7     18.6     30.9      31.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  24.9     22.0      21.9     21.5
Gross natlonal savings/GDP                  22.4    .20.3      20.5     20.1
Current account balance/GDP                 -4;7     -2.8      -3.0     -3.1     Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                        2.0     2.2       2.1       2.0                      >      oesi Investment
Total debtGDP                               25.7     39.8      35.0     26.9     savngs*
Total debt service/exports                  45.4     20.9      25.1     32.7
Present value of debt/GDP  .                  ..      ..      33.9      26.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..      ..      102.6     77.8
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.1      3.1     3.8        6.9      4.3         -     Mexico
GDP percapita                      .1.0      1.4      2.3       5.4      2.3               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.0     14.6     12.4      16.0      8.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP (#)
(% of GDP)                                                                       z
Agriculture                                  9.0      7.8       4.7      4.4       .
Industry                                    33.6     28.4      28.8     28.4     20
Manufacturing                             22.3     20.8      21.1      20.7     0
Services                                    57.4     63.7      66.5     67.3    *20
Private consumption                         65.1    69.6       67.1     67.5    .40
General govemment consumption               10.0      8.4      10.9     11.0          -GDl                   GDP
Imports ot goods and services               13.0     19.7      32.4     33.2
1980-90  199040       1999     2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.8      1.8       2.0      2.1     46-
Industry                                     1.1     3.8        4.2      6.6     30 -
Manufacturing                              1.5      4.4       4.2       7.1    it7
Services                                     1.4     2.9        3.7      7.4      o
Private consumption                          1.4     2.4       4.3       g.5    .-1 -    js         97   98    0s   00
General govemment consumption                2.4     1.8       3.9       3.5    -30
Gross domestic investment                   -3.3     4.6       4.1       8.8             -E   xports    --    Imports
lniports of goods and services               1.0    12.3      13.8      21.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 79 -



-    a~~~~~ 
so~~~~~~Ct
0 1- .0 -- . I~ ~ ~ ~   - Z0T
C  C ~ ~ C= 
OE a
20                     =
0
1    1 
20



C07hrt ont 2: Dntion of an oroblinv onvinrmont to focilitoto tho implomcnttion of ouotolnoblo tronoport tatctbo12
PYOW      1        2       3       4        5         a       7        t        9          10         11          12
1. hiwtfutl F m   ro=* InCtUdtnq  in  n  cft and b1ct trancoirmt
* I t,.,|.  .t k,k f1 1 Is .';^,  tl ..kt.k  k111  1.
Scopa: Anciaitng hlisUtsdonal and crmmarcl baoretars hinderIng the trXuctur
and functoning of the tnmspon "yOtom at thn momemt of the Inltgraton and
imso;m ntafto  of a laSs oyutni transport  tavlm_           _       _
Spo DefInItIonol en o andequate Instiuttional tramel rt fcctaling the tmpaomntEakton of an affittlent and oustalnOabo tansport ststem coniiderIng the chosen corridora
In tho MCMA .
p X ~~~~~~it     ., a }i t  jk  ,I, ,.
6tcaparebteih   baho   oa tr ns rt arem focused on tha unctornA Of tho cortldon.
a f3ttt, aldus n utatan I Elo co*tfdoro
SCOW: Xnttlon o1 reguiatorframowork nrcesaary Tor MO umplsm-ntag-lln
ofs ou3tnatat fuansport ectnco and proenantaon of altematbres o
mcdfteaton to actual regulatory framemewrk tn an oporatlonal and btrtltutlone
vlob3hrchiema 
24 1  i joi*tfli ii) 41311111, t13I'  k IF. (, i .
Seeps: Dootgn ol a quWlay control ayptrnm of the corrtdone for the oporatn.
the finlrg and the Intognatton of the Corrtdora deflton of perfomancae
IndKtamO tor parnont evaluation of cortdota. ovatten of quagty control
estam In chosan contdora
3. Buchnai   and  airnlrc a tIt i foitar OXoi3in tO   cot   _____
AM M . folol. . IIII 1, it", "if, I'If IF I'101, V   . I.o1 natlit a, t I I "i  3 1o.tIqtlioI,q  3 00,tCirtO,cti IItAl plntI lAe AG  RIttt '11 t500  ,o tt trkt 47k
13   +W lI1ll, I,   "l,  lioi   (C"mtGo,)  161,.16F.AR IHWol, S 4 .10 Vi,411.I  011  O k if.4t  t111 i totItWti*I 0 i   I .C l t3ktik, - -d   .t  ,Ak.it  t
Scopan, Imp.roe the anl  e ur,a yi ,of how Ip eo ple travqt fI ,r            at             a   _uuehl
II!t,   _t__I tIl k-l
5..1 Aan=   to 01 oDoo and condltlionhtu ycepaa
Strategic cycle lance (e.gr.ll In1 co ctl  Ih; o-                 -fd re  rI m otto) . ev Iew  II htIV .
Irmpc afrtve.M Dlceslnofplbolng  defeneowpop! troutes an twoMMA ank mrw h ndeo w'atm oamwrkyqaslosaothw  hne,I
surlveltyn of plannf of a     travl behavo  ludIng coiWdbao of t rbusos  2.1: tandU moteo and Tran we  Forvo ovf sadts.e ccle etore woul
eaot      for ,non and trasto iode onl
2J..AallPooels loreo raculatremeworksfor the aDusyInteue fnn
Scope: Cnharactriaton tan prpatrn af reuatoryaframeworkdfr the uestabnls g
Uandtc yeictl 01 i a          en s. Ioc   .ubA.ecrInd. metroi. Rha evy of the usem
ptrd Iats situtIonao tuam    g dsa        asbuo ats  t
smaller arns tn tho egiaiong whervea oaturhoipo'3  lIn ofaMpths tiACA landIpootehoeao Wch,athm oasort.yucun bithuecaast
b      fonost bthe raeutt t1. .: ndJs and Trasplt Fr1dMI
Snopr.t bltastie on ote pral cosdl foran a e tore cctaess ful ae ncn
et cop ntratin and andtt dIcuson dh porIate onsector ner ato otfh sym
of I a Insutat ongeaslmn WbIn faclIla ndpooIn Ite.hog epoe
23.54t   sl encao tands aeva.in of  tricture for the rasof ernct oft
Scopae. Elbotra on ofta dagposal on thenatual Ifrastrucre noeraavoI an z
braslor proased an atherns 01 monda t anthereonocesfro mptorsned transpor
otheyr countis and mc?rdes Discussnio wtte   pnSsono saato Intrcesetcab ofways
6ofps:tIimltiMng ovetrna Inopoacitltor, ruand r promoeng cyOrX thorUghe fnmpiWqr
M    =         M    .1 3.Iet8a on adeautooth anctuaslo Ifatreusactur non  aoot
bssf-icropa: bbngU sctOs of modWtal ttcnst UWWrae usaot nn motuzdasotze
se non-eotort od transport                           ___________and_the_succasatut_r_ances_h
2.5.. Evaluation Of MAW for the appliUato elan acton plan of tnn-martzed tnort o
- 81 -



Component 3: FIeld Test of Climnate-Friendly High Capacity Vehicles
i PY00          1         2         3          4         S           6          7         8           9           10             11             121
1. Comparative Fied Tost foaltenstvef bus and hae techniologiess
|Proect Start Up (see Test Protocol, Annex 16)
FY01            1                   3          4         5           6          7         8           9           10             11             121
1. Cont tuarelie Flei%s 3U iroFalemetivebus and fuel technof l le
13.1 .5 Traintnn
lStar Up    I
PY02            1         2         3          4         5           6          7         8           9           10             11             12
1. Cornparabvo Fied Test forattamatve bus and huel tachnoklgies
3.1.5. Develop and eDDI eramework for evaluation of alterative ve icle rptions--
Scope: Estabisnhment ot firm link between data from transport actifty, emissions. tuel cronsumpton. coupled to and-use and creation of setg-sustaining accounts of
transport actty (A), modat mis (S). energy Intensities of Indiucdual modes (I) and the fuel mhs and its emission matrix (F): ASIF. Provison of tramework for interpreting
tata from vehxlte emissions tests.
3.1.5.1 Vehlcte ,,entor,
Scope: Obtain current MCMA inventory (from SMA, other agencies) of aW motorized vehicles on number of vehicles (size class, transport category, OEM. conversion.
fuel used etc.); Deteminabon of Incrementat OEM capital costs and conversion costs and survey of vehicle and conversion manuaacturers for determinabon;
3.15.2 What othercites dotocatibrateASlF  . . . : -  > --  -- .       -I  .                    --. - -: e,   .     . ---.,      -IA ., .
Scope: Survey methods used by other biA cities (tA Paris..).
.3.1.5.3 Re-estimate and vatidate fuel use and emssons wttn the MCMA
differences between different authorites In methods and irventories, proposing mebtds to tiUl gaps, insttuthnatlzing ASIF procedure, Incorporating updated
intormatotn.
3.1.5.4 Reviw of the present Infrastructure,costa of facitties, teakaPe problems, o1 transPort systems
Scope: Systematic evaluation of current conventisnajand altemave tuel Infrstructure, of infrasucture systems, fueUng capabtlaies considering surh issues as
competency. costs, systems reDiabCity, bispectons, concems etc. Survey of locabons ot presentplanned refuelrnp stationsvfaclitses.
X31.5 Fut Fuel Cycle Anabsis -
Scope: Develop inventodrs of mayor Inputs/outputs reulting from cnventlonal and alternative fuel producitonivehixt Use for each major fuel and vehicle combmnatln.
Fuel production data cottected by PEMEX and other ftel providers, vehicle use data from Oead and laboratory tests viU be Included along with additonai data from other
publicly available sources.
Z3.1.i Safety 
Scope: Evatueton of safety Issues. sicudina those associated with fuel distribution, fuel handing, vehicle safety.
S3.15.7 Potental Impact of.Increased Diesel Use for medhum andc Utht vehicles               -
Scope: Evaluate previous operating experience for lightimedium duty vehicles running on Diesel in MC/other cies. Compare file cycle costs, fuel use, emissions.
perfomiance, drlverd/ubtic perception of conventionatclean diesel compared to other fueVvehicle options. Evaluate Impact of targer diesel use on petroleum Industry.
3.1SZ.8 Passenger, Driver, Owner Satislacton (Survey)
Scope: Survey of present users ot LPG, CNG vehlices In order to determine experiences with conversions.
3.1 S.9 Overat Evaluation of Alematve FueVPropuslon System Optons  . .  : .
Scope: Integrata all data/nsights resutttng trom completon of above tasks. detenmhnation of costs,benentts, devetoprment of scenarios, determination of awtractiveness
of vadous options, completion of sensitMty anasis, recommendations used for determining future conversions programs, procurement of new vehiclslfuel, Inputs to
T   ranspLoan t OM.  W
IPY03           1         2          3         4         5            6         7          8          9            10            11              12
1. Conrgatve Fleld Test for altematve bus and fuel technologios
31tFt ttDatAa    lya ls_RtSl
Scope: Integration of resuts from feld test in
consolidated report with respect to performance.
environmental Impact. etficiercy of operation, etc.
In order to make decision on poicies about new
technologies of pubfic transport In MCMA.
- 82 -



~~~~~           'A~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~C
'C                       6,4~ C~  C 
Sb5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
512
&o                    v
L4      48C 
CL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-c. 
E
c 0.                     rl M 9
HE~~



Component 5: Public awareness and dissemination
I PYOt            1          2         3         4          5           6         7          8          8            10            11             12
ScGoe Supppc,u aatem nat.Yn of tedrawiunmlornaDon Dor" feccmr r.davo,ns ana; o aunv Irorr PrOpctC p'uOpr oOn5n ana hilancer-snl M .0:h. Staken i,
mseangs for internal coordination and extmal communicaton In estabMlshing permanent mechanism for sharlng informaton, defining fomnat timing and characterlstcs
or esentin Informadon generated and oroantena and systematding Inforatbon receivad.
PY02            1         2         i          4         5           6          7         d           d            10           Ir              12
5.1!Coiiurns6nj ia@o'irFataihtDf  .rnilbWf  triD  Dig_ tandiic~   i                                     m                    in<
6'5vD-Hi.hinbon IlI! rrcKnivPlFI   et n   t   r   c t15                                  2 j             tF. .  ti9a;: -k     s fI 'Ntlc
Scope: Intematbonai disseminallon of obtalned experience and achieved results, above atl dissemination to Latin-America for their repiucaon potential. Introduction of
'e Draject as a whole to civil sociehy In Mexico CltY a encourape their supPOrt and =artticPation throuahout the project (amona others thrrouah Workshops).
______     Scope: Worirshops and meetins with stakehMeders and experts an order tb share the results of the projet and a further devebp these.
I PY03            1          2         3         4          5           6         7          8           9           10            11             12
icoop: iJesign,0 pubuc caPaign ouUinif the adlvantages and objectives of
transport conidors as weit as tia benefits from the use of non-motorized
modes of iansport; Such as design of publc campaign (through workslaop) to
engage ctizens in Meixko City and to gain their support for strategies to
p eaJce negalsve emoacts bom Wrn,=n C  rirBmnO.oeni ana 5jua rrv ri II-la
p5-      I         2en3nabon rtP __iw_ de by                                                              - I__-r        r     - l_  _  F i  .I
_A    nn     6:4!Prorr   Manandfmentirs-t         ou    DIns;eo0lebsnrSrctnFh                                                          -;-v
I PY04-05        1          2         3         4          S           a         7          8          9            10            11             12
ifil'sWCtion am,'" oaSoelDrJU     d nrtariiTn tl.tnsPrlc                           W-q                                            qf~,6-
53l Wit'r menirmof0reo,rsed b V       D>Dpiri e.                                                                                      WrX-  -  * r,   .
Isrucie macnearD-ning ore rdm.srfl 11're aonrslrduerr, me nhoiav%-V a r   se4e ereeasesA         mu orn
Companent 6: Project alawr,ement
_ScOpq GualanhenrnmaF Ii Fr con rerm ol me lnpeierrenraDon as acp.res mrck.aea ae.:arned our in acco.arce  tic iDIr CleOs
I PYos             1         2         3                                                     a n  dri;.                             I 5  r
I6- OseraDadito.n1m--- a*s oOre e*srs  Mt..  r'     w. -  jvsv.s.t  r me~-           .e ~-n.-                           ..-. *_ >
1d.ffrnaobeomerrltlster,           elEDslii7aee5rr                        ..r -t-.5   t--.    <.*n':wI -   - s         .    ~        - ---:.
ScoDe Desgi lssung and nOrban cla dn ,ncrmaoon ngEnagemeisysim manaeairnng nere.r 10 sppiri r.e sv   in dii niy ral.n p'ca-:ea O tha prnecd
De4eopmeni cl saidei,s   p,aroarason d1 euppon Ie ens0re iirars ol ea-n conpan, l 10 c. nliole nIr.   IC rredaldla spOaa ore ,n urran rrfrdrnema
8 3EvstJuor0olnsImsolaV4~   .r4..n e  ,.wIsnml-   aI.Si  'ye.   . t..............................  .> ho. - - -  .r~r .  - *   - !r -
Scopev niegag,on ana e.&I.anon of res.n so rqSpMeS .iCi ,erssoesn.aesurescr;as
MCCAP cofresponds to Metropolitan Climate Change AcUon Pian.
- 84 -



Additional Annex 12: Transmilenio Mass Transit System (Bogota)
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Transmilenio Mass Transit System
While the proposed corridor transport concept for the MCMA is different to Transmilenio, the
experience of the latter offers valuable lessons that are being considered in the design of the options in
Mexico. This annex summarizes some of the key features of the Transmilenio experience.
Bogota is one of the most densely populated cities in the world, with approximately 7 million people in
an area of only 35,000 hectares. Many of the main roadways are congested with a traffic speed during
rush hour of only 10 kilometers per hour. The use of private cars is a major cause of the congestion.
Although approximately 71% of motorized person trips are made by bus, 95% of road space is used by
private cars that transport only 19% of the population.
Transmilenio, a mass transit system based on buses, is part of the strategy implemented to improve the
congestion in the city by reducing reliance on private cars, and consists of the following main
components: (i) infrastructure to improve traffic congestion under the responsibility of the public sector
(exclusive lanes, stations and terminals, access ways, parking lots and maintenance shops); (ii) an
efficient operating system (operation companies, buses and employees) run by the private sector; (iii) an
effective and transparent fare collection system (equipment, card based and fiduciary management) run
by the private sector; and (iv) a permanent public institution in charge of planning, operation and control.
Some features of the system are: (i) people are transported in articulated buses with a 160 passenger
capacity; (ii) there are stations every 500 m with terminals and interchange stations at the end of each
line so the passenger can continue his trip using feeder buses (40-80 passenger capacity) without paying
an extra fare; (iii) each articulated bus has a GPS (global positioning system) connected by satellite to a
control center, where the frequency, position and speed is controlled; (iv) the payment for the use of the
system is made before entering the stations using a card system; and (v) the concessionaires for the
operation include operators already providing bus services, and domestic and international investors
while the feeder bus service is contracted out to existing transport companies.
The first stage of the system, partially under operation, comprises 470 articulated buses, and 41 km of
segregated busway. As of June 2002, it was 680,000 passengers per day. The total cost of the first stage
was US$ 213 million for the fixed infrastructure plus US$ 115 million for the buses which were financed
by the private operators. Stage II and mI are proposed to expand the system to include 22 corridors that
could   meet    the  demand    of   about   85%     of   the   trips  made    in   Bogota.
- 85 -



Diagram of Stage I (thick line) and Proposed Stage II and III Corridors
,~~~~~~~~~~~~
After 10 months of operation, Transmilenio achievements include:
* Ridership has increased from 312 to 1807 passengers per day per bus;
* Commercial success: it is expected that the bus companies will recover their investment in the
articulated buses within 4 years;
o   No public subsidies: except for the initial infrastructure investment and road maintenance, all costs
are financed from fare collection;
* Passenger benefits: the average travel time for a trip on the corridors has reduced 32%;
o Improved traffic safety: in the bus corridors, the weekly number of traffic accidents has declined
form 26.5 to 4.9 in 2001, with injuries and fatalities falling from 18 to 4.5, and from 1.3 to 0.1
respectively;
o   Pollution has reduced (S02, N02, 03 and PM-10) significantly along the corridors;
*   Excellent public image: In a recent survey (9/01), 88% of the respondents rated Transmilenio as
either "good" or "very good".
Transmilenio has created important changes in the transport sector:
* It has catalyzed the modernization of the public transport industry in Bogota. The creation of solid
operation companies and fleet owners, has made the provision of efficient and high quality service a
priority;
*   It has begun dismantling the "Guerra del centavo" ("war for the penny") that came about as a result
of the traditional payment system to drivers based on the number of passengers moved per day;
- 86 -



*   The concession contracts have made it mandatory to retire and destroy 2.7 old buses for each
articulated bus purchased.
-The key factors in successful project implementation have been:
*   The city had enough financial resources for the project from the sale of a portion of the Power
Company, this allowed the project to be implemented effectively and before the end of the Mayor's
term of office;
* The project execution was based on politically and financially realistic planning;
* A highly qualified management and technical team was engaged to develop the project;
*   The team worked outside the day to day work of the public institutions to allow them to focus on the
development and implementation of the project;
*   There was a clear decision to work with the established private operators. The partnership with the
private operators pernitted a smooth transition into the implementation phase of the project;
*   There were minimal negative impacts for the most powerful stakeholders (politicians, bus industry,
operators).
The project had strong leadership, political will and institutions.
- 87 -



Additional Annex 1          Timing of Policy Decisions in Relation to GEF Project
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Timing of Policy Decisions in Relation to GEF Project and WB proposed Grant Loan
2002                        2003                         2004
Implementation (Jan 2003 -Dec 2007)
GEF                    Council     Board       Study on ManLC!   Fare Structure Study
Project                 Approval  ApBuroval        ness S
Policy    CORRIDOR DEVELOPMENT
Decisions                                                            D
Plan of Action
BARRIER REDUCTION      To Enforce
-Policy measures    Dec   to                           Adoption
Reform fare                        Of Fare
Strurcture                       Sructure
Decison to                       Mm C.       Man
Organiee a                      vFramework  Company
meDsatitrrriora  / MaoL Comp.                         Endorsed  Craled
Bidding                          Bidding | Biddi|ng
Crheria For                       Process   Process
Coridor Buses                       Begun_ ComPleted
REDUCE EMISSIONS
|Adoprion of|
Emissions stds
VVB Loan                                                           [H1       1ffi1    DImplementation
- 88 -



Integrat-ed Strategy for MCMA under WB loan and GEF Project
Land  Projt .GEF Project Outcome                                  Global
Benefit
HarmonizedBefi
strategies on air._*
Transport               quality issues                                                   Reduced
Sector Plans             and integrated                    Encourage a long term          GHG
CAP                         Transport Modal Shift           emissions
which is climate friendly,     from
Draft Action                     more efficient and less        Passenger
Plan and barrier   Adoption of     polluting                      Ground
Air Quality               removal      *  policies and                                   Transport
Management                                 business                                   1   Vehicles
Plan (AQMP)                                structure 
Field test 
of w
Vehicles                                                       V
Input to AQMP            CapaciI                                g
building for 
l  sustainable                      C
Seator work              transport           a  d           imWrove
Emissions Inventory          Public             c               evloan           p       i
awareness and qlyniao
c   dissemination Iourove o
Health Impacts                                               Coordination
Study                      i
T                                   ~~~~wB         Local
.  .      .       ~~~~~~Enabling                    Project       Benefit
Harmonization of         Guidance for                           o environment   Outcome
measures to            preparation of        and design     Improve
address tocal and         GEF project          studies for    efcency,          Reduce air
GHG pollution   and WB loan      ~~corridors      environmental    poluidon in   Improved
and safety        from the     population
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~     ~~~~~hog eeopmento*       transport  *of MCMA
Modeling of air                             _whlilethog
quality and impact of                                                             improving    reduced
courses of action                                                               the safety    exposure to
Low                                and           airbome
emission                           effciency     pollutants
PHRD/GTFwork  J  vehicles     ~~Performance     transport    transport
Economic impact of     - Corridor studies                       reduction of      manage-      sector
courses of action      - Monitoring        |mobile                                ment          e
I              ~~~~~~emissiorns of
l _                 critical
pollutants
Studies for prep. of WB loan           lJ
-89 -



Additional Annex 14: Center for Sustainable Transport, Energy and Environment
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Find below the press release regarding the constitution of the Center for Sustainable Transport for
Mexico City as a result of a Memorandum of Understanding undertaken by the Government of Mexico
City through the Ministry of Environment (SMA) and the World Resources Institute.
"The Shell Foundation and the World Resources Institute are delighted to announce that Mexico City has
agreed to become the first and Lead Partner City for the Center for Sustainable Transport, Energy and
Environment at the World Resources Institute. This formal cooperation will extend over a five-year
period (2002-2006) and involve the joint commitment of resources and effort by the signatory parties to a
"Program for Sustainable Transport in Mexico City". The mission of this "Project" is to foster the
implementation of an environmentally sustainable urban transport system in Mexico City. Mexico City's
commitment to this sustainable transport effort marks it as one of the more far-sighted city governments
in the world, committed to delivering a better quality of life for citizens.
Transport is Key conduit of economic and social benefits. It is also a source of major environmental
problems, both locally - via congestion, noise and air pollution affecting the health and economic
fortunes of many billions of people- and because C03 emissions from transport in all regions of the
world are rising more rapidly than total emissions making transport one of the single most important
diverse of global climate change. There is growing societal consensus that "something needs to be done"
to tackle the transport/environment conundrum and a number of initiatives have been tried or are
underway. Yet, of all the energy-related problems affecting the environment, transport has so far proved
the most intractable.
Background. The Shell Foundation is a UK registered charity that was established in June 2000 by Royal
Dutch/Shell. The mission of the Foundation is the promotion of sustainable development world-wide. It
pursues this mission primarily via providing financial grants to support of projects carried out by
established nonprofit organizations and focusing on the Foundation's three major areas of concern: the
links between energy and poverty, particularly in developing countries, where some 2 billion people do
not have access to modern energy; the impact of energy production and consumption on the local and
global environment; the effect of globalization on the welfare and livelihood of marginalized and
vulnerable communities.
The Foundation has a distinguished Board of Trustees that includes Mr. Philip B. Watts, Chairman of
Royal Dutch/Shell; Sir John Houghton, Co-chair of the Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change and
Prof Jose Goldemberg, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil and Minister for Environment, Sao Paulo State,
Brazil. More details on the Foundation can be found on its website: http://www.shellfoundation.org.
Under the auspices of tis work on the environmental impacts of energy consumption, the Shell
Foundation in December 2001 awarded the World resources Institute in Washington D.C. a 5 year, $3.75
million grant to establish a new Center for Sustainable Transport, Energy and Environment.
WRI is one of the world's leading environmental NGOs and is highly respected by the international
NGO, government, academic and industrial communities. More information about WRI can be found on
its website: http://www.WRI.org. The director of the Center will be Dr. Lee Schipper, who brings 30
years of experience form working in literally dozens of countries of the South and North.
The Shell foundation, via the creation of Center at WRI will support a multi-year program of work that
- 90 -



will tackle the transport-environment problems faced by large urban centers particularly in developing
countries - where most future growth in transport and transport-related environmental problems will
occur. The primary short-term goal of the new Center is the development of proven models of effective
intervention introducing sustainable transport solutions in select target cities in the developing world.
The long-term goal is that these models of successful intervention will be subsequently deployed in other
developing country cities with growing transport problems. The effort will focus on close partnerships
with public and private authorities in the partner cities, with strategic alliances with private fuel and
vehicle makers, multi- and bilateral lenders, academics, and NGO's. Information technology will
strengthen these partnerships through meaningful exchange of data, experience, and good evaluation of
policy and technology experiments.
Institutional Base and project Objectives. The lead Mexico City institutions in the Program will be the
Ministry of Environment (SMA), and the Ministry of Transport (SETRAVI). Other city authorities with a
major role in transport such STE will also be involved in the work of the Project. The Project will give
major support to the World Bank/ Global Environmental Facility Program.
The project will work closely with international motor vehicle and fuel companies and regional and
national authorities.
The project will work at four interrelated levels:
a) Analysis: The Program will deliver credible analysis of technical, economic and policy aspects of
providing environmentally and financially sustainable solutions to the problem of transport in Mexico
City.
b) Advice and Information: The Program will make concrete policy and planning recommendations, and
disseminate information relevant to the planning and decision-making of those actors in a position to
make major investments. Web-based tools will provide a key means to this end, and other cities in
Mexico will be invited to follow the developments in Mexico City.
c) Engagement: The Program will facilitate the engagement and commitment of private, civil society and
public sector leaders in Mexico City to a mutually agreed plan to implement the new, sustainable
transport policies and programs called for by the above analysis.
d) Implementation: The Program will support SMA's efforts to design, implement and evaluate concrete
interventions in land use and transportation, including those arising from the new World Bank/GEF
project.
The new Center at WRI and the Mexico City Program for Sustainable Transport was formally launched
in Mexico City on June 1, 2002."
- 91 -



Additional Annex 15: Cost of Field Test
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Please see next page.
- 92 -



iNti     Rims         56trn*:Mtra,sEvlira                                     X51.
The total vehicle testing costs, not including emissions laboratory construction costs, are estimated to be
between   3,094,954      and        3,514,198  dollars (US)
Diesel       CNG      Diesel-Hybrid   Totals   l(sin LPG) I
FlJied'Coes l*il     ''"         9hs-/l
u Veh,cles                      4           4             4
$(Vehicle (US)             80,000       90,000      180,000    1,400,000
Kms/dia/veh                   220         220           220
dia/afio                      312         312           312
salary/driver               6,72         6,720        6,720
driverNeh                     2.2          2.2          2.2
# years                         2            2            2
Fuel Tanks, Tools, Pum      50000       5p0,00       50,00C     150,000
SubTotal'-9EhxedIiW, F"   48;7    U    528:272 'IM-j8 8272     1,904,816
Variable Costs: 2-1I   O 1      an - 1 11            - E
s Vehicles                      4           4             4
Fuel                .08-.13 $/km  .07-.1 $/km  .06-.1 $/km
Maintenance (US)     .21-.27 $/km  .25-.31 $/km  .31-.36 $/km
Cost/km (low)                0.29         0.32         0.37
Cost/km (high)               0.40         0.41         0.46
Veh-Kms/aflo               68,4C        68640        68,640
# ahos                          2           2             2
S0bTotal.:'Vat'(low)i Ri   159'245 U&175Z7S18     1 S 203,174   538,138
SubT6talr-aVW.(Hlgh)- u'I,21 9.648   225%13 3  VW2525'i95       697,382
total diesel fuel use        6240D                     64912
647,517      703,990     1,091,446
to          to            to
707,920      753,411     1,140,867
Program Manager                   1 "Technical' FTE total for 2 years =  100,000 (50,000 dollars per ye
Advisory Committee  5 foreigners, 2 visits, 5,000 dollars each visit      100,000
if we have to pay by test:        3days'12 buses*1000$1day3tests =        108000
At VWU       estimated at                            600,000
3,094,954
to
3,514,198
Notes:
Technical FTE salary assumed          Dnver FTE Salary
driver/mechanic costs:    .       =40,000 per year                      'overhead      1.4
months         12
salary (pee  4000
pesos/doll;    1 0
FTE/year     6720
maintenance = oil, parts, labor, tires, brake pads, repalrs, with US. Labor costs.
training costs estimate = 60,000
- 93 -



Concerning the Hybrid operating costs, there are assumed to be higher because the buses are prototypes,
and are expected to need more attention than diesel buses.
- 94 -



Additional Annex 16: Test Protocol
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Protocol for the Clean Vehicles Testing Pro2ram
1.   Introduction
Through the following proposed testing program of alternative fuel and propulsion system
vehicles, Mexico City will become an important laboratory for evaluating the costs, benefits
and challenges of operating advanced technologies in the world's largest mega-cities. The study
involves the assessment of the life cycle costs (capital, fuel, operation and maintenance) as well
as the emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases from conventional diesel and alternative
fueled transit buses over a study period of 2 years. The proposed testing protocol will involve
procedures standard to bus testing around the world, and has benefited from the contributions of
several experts in the field of bus testing and operations and alternative fuels and propulsion
systems. Inputs have been received from 1. Dana Lowell, Assistant Chief Maintenance Officer for Research and
Development at New York City Transit (which is currently operating a fleet of 221 CNG buses and 375 Hybrid
diesel buses), 2. Richard Gibbs, at the New York EPA, 3. Nigel Clark, Professor of Mechanical Engineering at
West Virginia University and 4. Heather MacLean, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering at the University of
Toronto.
The testing program will serve to supply some of the information necessary to make long-term
decisions regarding the upgrading and expansion of bus-based transit systems in Mexico City
which consider economic, environmental and institutional sustainability. The results of this
study have limitations in their application, and additional information will be included based on
reviews of existing studies and judgments from experts in the area of alternative vehicle options
and Mexican authorities.
The program will give the Mexican agencies the experience of operating alternative fueled
vehicles before it comes time to adopt them into operations in a large scale. It will develop the
record keeping capacity required to compare costs between different bus platforms run by the
agencies. The resulting data will be used for evaluating the costs and benefits of the various
technologies. Other nontechnical factors not present in this testing protocol will also come into
play in the final analysis and comparisons of the bus technologies.
The deliverables of the tests are 1) measures of the fixed costs and costs of operation for each
vehicle, including fuel and other consumables, labor, maintenance and repair, 2) measures of
the air pollutant and greenhouse gas emissions of each vehicle at various points during the
testing period, 3) subjective measures of the perfornance of the buses based on passenger,
driver, and other staff's comments and evaluations, 4) an understanding of the challenges to
operating fleets of advanced vehicles in Mexico City. The management of the testing program
- 95 -



will be described first, followed by the specific protocols for the field tests and the laboratory
tests.
2.   The Testing Program Structure and Management
The testing program will consist of a fleet of test buses to be operated by the Government
Company for Electric Transport in Mexico City (STE). The Fleet will be operated in the field
under normal service conditions ("the field tests"). The Fleet will be periodically removed from
service to undergo emissions testing in a vehicle testing facility, the fleet will also undergo a
series of in-service emissions testing using on-board emissions testing equipment. Included in
the Fleet are 4 Compressed Natural Gas (CNG), 4 Hybrid Diesel Electric, 4 Clean Diesel and 4
standard diesel buses (to be tested during the pre-test period). The Program will consist of a
pre-testing phase, lasting roughly 6 months preceding the arrival of the Fleet, and the testing
phase, to last for 2 years from the reception of the Fleet. Processing and interpretation of the
data will take place as the data is collected during the 2 years, and several months will be left
after the end of the 2 year period for final data analysis. During the field testing, surveys will be
performed of the passengers, drivers, mechanics and operations staff to measure satisfaction
and performance. A more detailed calendar of events follows below. The program will be
managed day to day by a project manager, and will be overseen by an advisory committee.
The Test Fleet
The expected number of buses to be included in the test fleet (the Fleet) are: 4 Compressed
Natural Gas (CNG), 4 Hybrid Diesel Electric, 4 Clean Diesel and 4 standard diesel buses. See
Annex 17 for a description of each of these bus technologies. The number of buses of each
type, four in this case, was chosen according to a statistical analysis of the errors in the values
predicted from the tests. A discussion of how this number was determined can be found in
Annex 16. A search for CNG, Hybrid and Clean Diesel vehicles is being carried out. For
purposes of comparison, it is hoped that the buses in the fleet are of a very similar capacity. The
final selection of buses will depend on the availability of models from the participating
manufacturers. Delivery of the vehicles is expected for the summer of 2003. The standard diesel
vehicles will be taken from the present fleet of the transit agency.
The Test Fuels
Conventional diesel (PEMEX 350 ppm) will be used during the pretest period for the
conventional diesel buses. Low sulfur diesel (50 ppm) is being obtained through Shell-Mexico
and will be stored in separate storage facilities, to be constructed during the start-up and pretest
periods. The fuels obtained will be those most appropriate for the engine technologies, keeping
in mind expected availability of fuels in Mexico City. An additional supply of Ultra-low-sulfur
(. 15 ppm) diesel is currently being negotiated.
The CNG buses will demand CNG fuels, to be supplied through ECOMEX at their local
refueling stations. Negotiations between STE and ECOMEX have determined that stations are
close enough to STE routes to be feasible for use in the test, without any additional construction
- 96 -



or shipping arrangements. The quality of the CNG fuel used is extremely important and should
be monitored during the testing, both in the depot and in the laboratory.
Venue for Field Tests
The venue for tests will be determined during project implementation. The main STE depot at
Municipio Libre will be the, location for the storage, fueling, maintenance and repair of the
Fleet, as this is where the buses will depart for revenue service. Areas of the depot will be
dedicated to the additional tools and equipment needed by the new buses, to be arranged and
decided by depot staff and managers. The clean diesel fuel storage tanks and pumps will also be
located in the STE depot. The installation of these fueling facilities will take place during the
pre-test period.
The routes over which the buses will operate during the field tests will be decided by STE staff
in consultation with the Advisory Committee. The route will be chosen for how it represents
typical bus driving conditions in Mexico City, as well as its proximity to the Ecomex CNG
refueling facilities. Other criteria, such as length, will also be considered in the route selection.
On-board emissions testing may take place as the buses are operated in service out of the STE
depot. This testing will depend on the funds available and further discussion.
Venue for Laboratory Emissions Tests
Technical assistance for the emissions testing and other tests under the protocol will be
contracted under competitive bidding.
Program Task Calendar
The following calendar assumes emissions testing will be done once after the initial vehicle
break in period, and then once per year after that. It should be noted that the calendar is
dependent on the completion of the emissions testing laboratory, and the delivery of the buses
and fuels, and the final approval of this protocol by the advisory committee. Other, testing
schedules can be accommodated if it is so desired.
1)   September, 2002 to January, 2002: Project Start-Up
(a)  Finalize contract for fuel supply
(b)  Install fueling infrastructure
(c)  Finalize contracts for the supply and delivery of buses
(d)  Arrange for fuel use training
(e)  Purchase and install any new tool sets or other equipment as needed
(f)  Hire Project Manager
(g)  Finalize Advisory Conmmittee
(h) Make final decision concerning laboratory testing arrangements
2)   February, 2003 to July, 2003: Pre-test Period
(a)  Continue modification of bus depot for the new buses as needed
(b)  Develop "Operations Reports" with the input of work crews, managers, Program
-97 -



Manager, Advisory       Committee and Mexican Agencies
(c)  Test implementation of Operation Reports
3)   April, 2003 : Vehicle Acquisition
(a) Train Staff (work crews, managers, Program Manager) on maintaining, fueling and
repairing test fleet.
(b)  Train drivers on test fleet vehicle operations.
(c)  Place test fleet into service revenue
4)   September, 2003 : Initial Emissions Testing (after vehicle "break-in" period)
(a)  Initial Emissions testing for entire test fleet
5)   September, 2004: Interim Emissions Testing
(a)  Emissions testing for entire test fleet
6)   September, 2005 : Final Emissions Testing
(a)  Emissions testing for entire test fleet
7)   October, 2005: Final Data Analysis and Report Preparation
(a)  Final field data analysis is made using now completed test data
(b)  Combine Emissions and Field data into final program report
Management of the Testing Program
The testing program will be managed by a Project Manager (see Annex 21 for more details about the
manager's responsibilities.), and the project will receive general guidance from an advisory
committee. The Manager will be responsible for overseeing the operation and testing of the
buses on a day-to-day basis. The Manager will keep aware of the status of each bus in the test
bus fleet, making sure that if it is not in operation as scheduled, it is being actively repaired or
maintenance. The Manager will serve as the liaison between the transit agency and the bus
manufacturers' representatives and repair technicians, and inform the advisory committee (see
Annex 21) about relevant developments in the testing. The advisory committee will consist of
representatives of all of the Mexican agencies involved, bus and fuel producers, as well as
several technical experts from several countries.
The manager will not be responsible for any data processing or analysis. A team of analysts or
consultants will process and interpret the test results and data as it is produced. This team
should consist of people from the relevant Mexican agencies and receive guidance from the
advisory committee. Interim and final reports will be produced by the team with input from the
advisory committee.
3. The Start-Up and Pre-Test Period
Several things need to happen before the buses are delivered to prepare the bus depot for
testing. Physical changes to the depot must take place to make room for new tool sets, fueling
facilities, and of course, 20 additional buses. The depot work crews and managers must decide
on and make these changes. STE will make arrangements for new tools or assistance directly
with bus and fuel producers.
The fueling facilities need to be installed by the appropriate agency, to be arranged when the
- 98 -



fuel contracts are made. The relevant depot staff needs to be trained on how to use and maintain
the fueling facilities. The portion of the staff to receive this training is up to the depot managers
and will depend on staff responsibilities.
During the Pre-Test period, the work crew managers and Program Manager must develop the
format for the "Operations Reports" with the input of the Advisory Committee and Mexican
Agencies, based on the basic model included in this proposal (see below). This includes
defining the data to be included in the form and the way the forms are filled out, stored and
accessed by depot staff. The depot should then test and trouble shoot the Operations Reports by
maintaining them for existing buses in the fleet. The Program Manager can then assess that data
is being recorded properly and accurately before the test Fleet arrives.
Depot crews should be trained and ready to repair and maintain the Test Fleet before the start of
the tests. They should feel farniliar enough not to hesitate when confronted with repairs on the
new vehicles, which is common to many depots receiving new technologies. The role of the
crew managers and Project Manager will be important, and specific workers trained and
assigned to the new vehicles will be decided by the crew managers.
Start-Up and Pre-Test Responsibilities
Mexican Agencies must finalize the procurement of the test buses as well as the contracts for
fuel supply. The installation of the fuel supply system must be coordinated by the Agencies and
the depot managers. The agencies must hire the project manager. Depot managers must plan
staff assignments to the test program and make sure fuel training is assigned accordingly. Depot
managers should also plan for the physical changes in the depot and any construction or
purchases which will be needed.
4. The Field Tests
The collection of information about maintenance and fuel costs can only come through the
day-to-day operation of the buses. This portion of the testing program is called the field testing.
The buses are scheduled into regular service, repaired and maintained as any other bus in the
system. The route used for testing should be very typical of the driving conditions experienced
by buses in Mexico City. Any revenues collected during the field testing will be retained by
STE.
The principal data collection instrument of the field tests is the Operations Report. STE has in
place a "fleet maintenance" information management system, called IMANT, which will prove
to be a very useful base for developing the data collection system the project demands. A new
Operations Report will be developed using the current system, and will include the following
information:
1. Date
2. Time
3. Vehicle identifier number
99 -



4. Odometer reading
5. Fuel source identifier (i.e. type of fuel or fuel lot number in the case of clean diesel, which
will be stored separately in containers)
6. Recorder name
7. Description of 'event' (fueled vehicle, repair of exhaust system, replace injector, rotate tires,
etc.)
8. Classification of event into 2 dimensions:
A. Type of work (routine, i.e. scheduled oil changes, and unscheduled, i.e. repair)
B. Part of the Bus needing work:
1. Scheduled Preventative Maintenance
a. Oil,
b. Air Filters
c. Brakes
d. Tires
2. Engine
a. Engine
b. Coolant
c. Lubrication
d. Fuel System
e. Exhaust
3. Drivetrain
a. Transmission
b. Driveshaft
c. Rear Axle
4. Chassis
a. Front axle
b. Steering
c. Suspension
d. Wheels and Bearings
e. Body
5. Driving cycle
9. Parts or materials used or ordered and their costs
10. Total labor hours used
I 1. Total "down" time of the bus for the event
The definitions of "event" used in the Operation Reports vary among bus service depots. The
definitions should be finalized as part of the pre-testing phase of the testing program in order to
allow unhindered data collection during the testing phase. In order to facilitate the breakdown
of costs for the hybrid vehicles, one or more additional non-traditional work categories will
need to be added to the report.
Fuel refilling will be recorded on these forms and this information will be essential to
determining the fuel efficiency and costs of the vehicles. Other information deemed pertinent to
the specific operations in Mexico City, such as identifying the particular bus depot or work
crew involved can easily be added to the Reports. Example reports from other operators can be
- 100 -



reviewed as a starting point for developing the forms.
During the field testing, surveys will be performed of the passengers, drivers, mechanics and
operations staff to measure satisfaction and performance. Surveys of riders and drivers will ask
for ratings of things like performance, acceleration, noise, odor, and comfort, among other
things. Surveys of mechanics and operations will seek feedback on things related to ease of
maintenance and reliability. The surveys will be developed by the program manager and senior
STE staff, and an assistant will be hired to help with the execution.
Field Test Responsibilities
The bus depot work crew, the depot crew managers, and the Project Manager will all contribute
to the field test effort. The work crew will be trained in how to fill out the operations reports,
and the crew managers will be charged with insuring that these reports are filled out in a
satisfactory manner. Most transit agencies have some kind of recording system for any work
done on agency property, so these responsibilities will not be new to most bus maintenance
crews. The copying and storage of the reports, and the entry of the data should be the
responsibility of the Project Manager. It is important the any special fuels to be used for the test
buses are separated and cared for by the crew or depot managers, together with coordination
with the Project Manager. STE management will form a relationship with the bus
manufacturers in order to schedule any major repairs, overhauls, order special parts, etc. The
program manager should also assist in this effort.
5. Laboratory Tests
Among the most important results of the testing program are the emissions measurements made
on the test fleet. In order to be able to measure these benefits accurately, the emissions of each
bus must be tested in laboratory conditions. Currently, there is no legal standard for heavy
vehicle testing in the laboratory. The Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), in conjunction
the California Air Resources Board and West Virginia University is developing a statement of
standard practice for laboratory emissions testing of heavy-duty vehicles, entitled SAE J2711.
This document recommends procedures to be followed in emissions testing, and will serve as a
world standard for bus testing. It includes all of the steps needed for laboratory staff to prepare
and test a heavy-duty vehicle and is directly applicable to the laboratory at the Mexican Institute
of Petroleum. One to two days will be needed to test each vehicle.
The emissions testing will involve driving the buses on a dynamometer. The driving "cycle"
which dictates the speeds and accelerations followed by the vehicle during testing must be
decided upon by the Mexican agencies. There are numerous established cycles simulating urban
driving conditions but it is also common for cities to develop their own in order to more
accurately simulate their own typical driving conditions (e.g., New York City developed a
driving cycle). Developing a new driving cycle is a fairly straightforward endeavor and can be
performed at an institution providing technical assistance for the emission testing which will be
contracted under competitve bidding. This development of a new driving cycle will be
coordinated with STE during the pre-test period in order to have it ready for the initial testing of
- 101 -



the Test Fleet. It involves measuring the speed history of a bus in typical driving conditions and
using software to construct speed profiles which are found to be statistically typical.
The proposed set of pollutant emissions and greenhouse gasses to be measured during the
testing are noted below.
Carbon monoxide (CO)
Carbon dioxide (C02)
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
Sulfur oxides (SOx)
Hydrocarbons (Methane (CH4) and Non-methane (NMHC))
Particulate Matter (PM) (of sizes to be determined by the needs of the Mexican officials)
These (excluding SOx) are the most commonly tested emissions and are the only ones required
by the U.S. EPA. The list may be amended based on consultation with Mexican Officials,
together with the group in charge of atmospheric pollution modeling (Multiscale Climate and
Chemistry Model). This would not affect the standard procedures (it just changes which
pollutants are measured by the chemical analyzers).
The fuels used during the field operations and laboratory tests should be monitored and tested
for their actual chemical composition. The study managers should insure that fuels are ordered
and are delivered to the laboratories, the bus depot and the emissions testing laboratories. It will
be important not to mix the "clean diesel" lot in any tanks or plumbing normally used by
standard diesel fuel.
Laboratory Test Responsibilities
The Manager should coordinate laboratory tests with the bus depot and bus dispatchers, so that
operations can be planned and substitute buses can be reserved.
6.   Amendments to this Protocol
It is expected that during the testing, amendments will be made to the testing program. The
Advisory Committee along with the Project Manager should all discuss these changes and make
them accordingly.
7.   Interim and Final Reports
A team of analysts or consultants will process and interpret the test results and data at regular
intervals as it is produced. Interim and final reports will be produced by the team with input
from the advisory committee. The specific information to be included in the reports is to be
determined by the consultants, advisory commrittee and Mexican agencies.
8.   Test Outcome
It is anticipated that the data on emissions will provide robust information on environmental benefits,
- 102 -



the information collected on operating costs will be complemented with data from other test
experiences during this project. This information may support the strengthening of environmental
covenants in future bids for transport routes. The data from the test will be shared with results from
other experiences and will be facilitated to similar tests being planned in New York, Copenhagen,
Santiago and other cities.
After the completion of the tests (within six months), the City Government would prepare an action
plan for the possible introduction of new technologies.
With respect to CNG buses, the test will clarify advantages at the altitude of the test and the specific
traffic conditions. Same clarifications will be obtained for all other options.
The ExDerience with the Pilot Test in New York City
The New York City Transit's Department of Buses has been operating and testing climate friendly
vehicle technology for over 10 years. Beginning in 1990 with two CNG buses, NYCT's fleet now
includes over 200 alternative fueled and hybrid buses, with another 300 on order in the coming year.
Operating CNG, Hybrids and Clean Diesel technologies side by side in the same operating conditions
and by the same personnel and facilities has been extremely valuable in understanding the trade-offs
among the different technologies. 221 CNG, 11 hybrid buses and Diesel buses fitted with advanced
filters and particulate traps have been tested by NYCT over the past several years.
The results of the testing are complex, and show the difficulties of testing advanced and prototype
technologies in real world operating environments. Some of the most general conclusions of the tests
were the following. CNG is an effective technology for use in urban transit buses, though it was found
to be much (28%) more prone to failure, it was 20-40% less energy efficient, and it was significantly
more expensive to operate than diesel buses. On the limited routes the hybrids have been operating
energy efficiency has been found to be higher than the diesel buses. Because of its performance and feel,
the hybrids rate very highly among drivers and passengers. The hybrids tested have been failure prone
due to their untested technologies, and it is expected by NYCT that most of these issues will be resolved
with later models. New Clean Diesel engines are found to be 94% cleaner than diesels produced 10
years ago. Retrofitting older engines with filters and catalysts combined with the use of low sulfur fuel
can be an effective, low cost and maintenance free solution to cleaning up an existing diesel bus fleet.
The entire NYCT fleet is now operating on ultra low sulfur diesel (30 ppm), 570 pollutant filters have
been installed, and 120 older diesel engines have been replaced with new clean diesel engines.
- 103-



Additional Annex 17: Cleaner Buses
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Cleaner Buses
Advanced Diesel Bus
Advanced diesel buses are equipped with state-of-the-art emission control devices such as filters and
catalysts which make them much cleaner than conventional diesel buses. The term "advanced diesel bus"
is used for a bus which is equipped with one or more of these. In order to function properly, these devices
require the use of low-sulfur diesel fuel which is more expensive. The California Air Resource Board
(CARB) estimates that the incremental cost necessary to meet the standards set for 2007 will be less than
10,000 US$ per bus. Some but not all of the technologies employed are already well established on
certain markets One of the future challenges for advanced diesel bus technology is the widespread
distribution of low sulfur fuel.
CNG Buses
CNG buses run on natural gas (which is mostly methane) which they burn in specially designed
spark-ignition engines. Natural gas is relatively cheap and abundant, and it burns much more cleanly than
diesel fuel. According to a recent test from Australia, the C02 equivalent reduction for diesel
replacement amounts to 17%-25%. In addition, substantial noise reduction has been achieved in diesel
replacement by CNG. Today CNG buses are the only commercial alternative to diesel buses. They
require significantly higher investments, but the fuel itself tends to be cheaper. Overall cost effectiveness
has to be assessed in the light of local economic background conditions. CNG buses are already being
employed in a number of cities throughout the world. One of the main obstacles for further spreading is
the lack of fuelling infrastructure.
Fuel Cell Bus
Fuel cells represent a novel technology entirely different from that of the internal combustion engine.
They use hydrogen gas as a fuel to produce electricity, the only emission being water vapor. Their energy
efficiency and emission reduction potential make them attractive for use within polluted urban
environments - their overall environmental performance however depends on the means of hydrogen
production.
Fuel cell buses exist only as prototypes as yet and are extremely expensive compared to other alternatives
such as CNG. Many experts consider fuel cells to be the technology of choice for the long-term future of
urban transport. Currently however, they cannot be regarded as cost effective. A number of technological
barriers must be overcome for fuel cell buses to reach market maturity - as for example hydrogen storage.
There is currently intensive research going on in this field.
Hybrid Buses
Hybrid buses use two (or more) different energy conversion systems. The most common combination is
that of an internal combustion engine with a battery and electric motor. Their main advantage is the
reduction of emissions by means of greater fuel efficiency. As hybrid vehicles are still in the
development stage, capital costs are currently high. These will be to some extent offset by fuel savings,
and prices may fall in the future if hybrid vehicles become more widespread. While some smaller hybrid
- 104 -



vehicles are already available, hybrid buses exist only as prototypes yet.
- 105 -



Additional Annex 18: Previous Fleet Test for Emissions Data Measurement
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Piease see next page
- 106-



Citation       Number    Engine     Year  Fuel    Emissions  PM    Nox   Toxics
of       Model                     treatment
vehicles                           and engine
features
McCormick       1        Cummins    1995  CNG                0.09  16.5
1999                    L 10G
1        John Deere  1996  CNG                0.09  14.8
8.lL      I
I        Cummins     1997  CNG    Oxidation   0.12  7.8
B5.9G                    catalyst
2        Detroit     1994  CNG     Open loop  0.19  44.7
Diesel 50G
2        Detroit     1993  Diesel             0.77  45.0
Diesel 50         (No2)
Ahlvik, 2000    1        Scania           Diesel             0.34  17.9  0.05
#20                      Euro II          (<10                           formaldahyde
city bus          ppm                            0.03
engine            S)                             acetaldehyde
_____ ____   ___ _____ ____   ___ _ __   _ __  _0.13  PA C
1        Scania            Diesel  Oxidation  0.28  17.7  0.03
Euro II          (<10    catalyst                formaldahyde
city bus          ppm                            0.02
engine            S)                             acetaldehyde
0.02 PAC
1        Scania            Diesel  Oxidation  0,03  17.2  0.02 PAC
Euro II          (<10    ctalyst +
city bus          ppm    DPF
engine             S)
Northeast       1        Detroit    1998  Diesel  Oxidation  0.24  30.1
Advanced                 Diesel 50        (300    catalyst
Vehicle                                   ppm
Consortium                                S)
2000 #31                                                            _
1        Cumnins     1998  CNG     Oxidation  0.02  25.0
L 10 280G                 catalyst
1        Detroit     1999  CNG     Oxidation  0.02  14.9
Diesel 5OG                catalyst
1        Detroit     1998  CNG     Oxidation  0.02  9.7
Diesel 50G                catalyst
New York State  2        Detroit    1999  Diesel  Oxidation  0.20  24.5
Department of            Diesel 50        (350    catalyst
Environmental                             ppm
Protection,                               S)
2000 #21
2        Detroit     1999  Diesel  Oxidation  0.14  25.4
Diesel 50         (30     catalyst
ppm
S)
2        Detroit     1999  Diesel  Oxidation  0.03  25.1
Diesel 50         (30     catalyst +
- 107 -



- 108-



Additional Annex 19: Disbursement
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Disbursement of the GEF grant per component by activity
Component 1: Harmonization of sector strategies on air quality issues and Integrated Climate Action
Plan for the MCMA
Total per
Activity                    PYOl    PY02    PY03    PY04    PYO5               activity
1.1.1 Review of plans         40000       0       0       0       0               40000
1.1.2 Calibration of plans     7000   18000       0       0       0               25000
1.2.1 Workshop (Harmonization
of plans)                     15000       0       0       0       0                15000
1.3.1 Design of Metropolitan
Climate Change Action Plan    70000   30000       0       0       0               100000
1.3.2 Consultation key
stakeholders                      0    5000       0       0       0                 5000
1.3.3 Public consultation         0    5000       0       0       0                5000
1.3.4 Final presentation          0       0       0       0       0                   0
1.3.5 Monitoring of Metropolitan
Climate Change Action Plan        0       0  160000   25000   25000               210000
Total of component           132000   58000  160000   25000   25000 SUM           400000
- 109 -



Component 2: Definition of an enabling environment to facilitate the implementation of sustainable
transport strategies
Total per
Activity                   PYOl     PY02   PY03    PY04    PY05               activity
2.1.1 Analysis of institutional and
commercial barriers          100000       0      0       0       0               100000
2.1.2 Definition of an institutional
framework for the operation of
the corridors                 20000   40000      0       0       0                60000
2.1.3 Elaboration of a program
proposal for the corridors   350000  660000      0       0       0              1010000
2.1.4 Design of an origin
destination survey                0  160000      0       0       0               160000
2.2.1 Analysis of the regulatory
framework                    290000       0      0       0       0               290000
2.3.1 Analysis of business
options for the corridors
(including analysis of incentives
and barriers)                150000  310000      0       0       0               460000
2.3.2 Economic and financial
assessment of the proposed
business structure           200000  490000      0       0       0               690000
2.4.1 Design of measures to
promote metro rider-ship      50000   50000      0       0       0               100000
2.5.1 Analysis of options and
conditions for cycle lanes        0       0       0      0       0                    0
2.5.2 Proposal for a regulatory
regime for the security in the use
of non-motorized transport        0       0       0      0       0                    0
2.5.3 Identification and evaluation
of incentives for the use of non-
motorized transport           30000       0      0       0       0                30000
2.5.4 Diagnosis and Analysis of
the infrastructure for the
transference of motorized, non-
motorized transport               0       0      0       0       0                    0
2.5.5 Evaluation of studies for the
application of an action plan of
non-motorized transport           0       0      0       0       0                    0
2.5.6 Design of promotion
campaign                          0       0       0      0       0                    0
Total of component          1190000 1710000       0       0      0 SUM          2900000
Component 3: Field test of Climate-Friendly High Capacity Vehicles
Total per
Activity                   PYOl    PY02    PY03    PY04    PY05               activity
3.1.1 Elaboration of Field Test
protocol                      40000       0      0       0       0                40000
3.1.3 Training                    0   80000      0       0       0                80000
3.1.4 Field Test             107000  431500  431500      0       0               970000
3.1.5 Framework for evaluation of
alternative vehicle options       0 410000        0      0       0               410000
Total of component           147000 921500   431500      0       0 SUM          1500000
- 110 -



Component 4: Technical assistance and training for incorporation of climate change and air quality
considerations in the design and analysis of transport strategies
Total per
Activity                   PYOl     PY02   PY03    PY04    PY05               activity
4.1 Carrying out of a review of the
transport planning regulations of
SETRAVI                           0    5000      0       0       0                5000
4.2 Analysis of benefits and costs
of sustainable transport projects  0  20000   95000      0       0               115000
4.3 Analysis of environmental
impacts of sustainable transport
projects                                 0   50000      0       0               50000
4.4 Analysis of climate impact
assessments of sustainable
transport projects                0       0   50000      0       0               50000
4.5 Development of
methodologies for measurement
and verification of emissions  25000      0      0       0       0               25000
4.6 Training to bus operators,
mechanics and maintenance staff  10000   0       0       0       0               10000
4.7 Review and development of
emission standards and transport
regulations proposals             0   20000      0       0       0               20000
4.8 Training and support for
contracting and coordinating
market studies                    0    5000      0       0       0                5000
4.9 Training                      0       0      0   20000       0               20000
4.10 Institutional Capacity
Building for the executing agency  100000  0     0       0       0               100000
Total of component           135000   50000  195000  20000       0 SUM          400000
Component 5: Public awareness and dissemination
Total per
Activity                   PYO    PY02    PY03    PY04    PY05               activity
5.1.1 Collection and integration of
information produced by the
,roject                       12000   12000   12000   12000  12000               60000
5.2.1 Design of public campaign   0      0    10000      0       0                10000
5.3.1 Dissemination of technical
information produced by the
project                           0   21250  21250   21250   21250                85000
5.4.1 Promotion and financing of
workshops and stakeholder
meetingealization of workshops    0   2500    2500    2500    2500                10000
Total of component            12000   35750  45750   35750   35750 SUM           165000



Component 6: Project Management
Total per
Activity                  PYOl    PY02    PY03   PY04    PY05              activity
6.1.1 Implementation of the
project                      20000  20000   20000   20000  20000              100000
6.2.1 Operational Integration of
the activities               25000  75000   75000   25000  35000              235000
6.3.1 Evaluation of the results  0    . 0       0      0 100000               100000
Total of component           45000  95000   95000   45000 155000 SUM          435000
Total of comDonents        1661000 2870250 927250 125750 215750 SUM          5800000
Cumulative                 1661000 4531250 5458500 5584250 5800000
-112 -



Additional Annex 20: Institutional Matrix
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Component             Carrying              Participating        Time Period
out/Coordinating      Institutions for the
Institution           operational period
1.1   Calibration of  SMA                   SETRAVIV CST
plans
1.1.1  Review of plans                                          01/03-08/03
1.1.2  Calibration
01/03-12/03
1.2   Harmonization  SMA                    SMA, SEDUVI,        08/03-09/03
of plans                                    SETRAVI, SE, SCT     (depending on
1.2.1 Workshop                              WRI/CST             calibration)
1.3    Climate Action  SMA                  SMA, WRIVCST        09/03-12/04
Plan
1.3.1  Design of CAP                                            09/03-12/03
1.3.2  Consultation to
key stakeholders                                                 01/04-02/04
1.3.3 Public
consultation
1.3.4  Final                                                    01/04-04/04
Presentation
1.3.5  Monitoring                                               07/04
___________________ _  _____________ ______   ______ ___01/05-12/07
2.1 Institutional     SETRAVI               STE, STC, RTP,       01/03-12/03
Framework including                         SCT,WRVICST
integration of metro and
bus transport
2.2 Reform of bus     SETRAVI               SETRAVI, SCT         01/03-06/03
regulation in the
corridors
2.3 Business and      SETRAVI               STE, STC, RTP, SCT,  01/03-12/03
management structures                       WRVCST
for operating the bus
corridors
2.4 Measures to promote SETRAVI             STC, SCT             01/03-12/03
metro rider-ship
2.5 Action Plan for  SETRAVI, SMA           WRVCST               01/03-12/03
non-motorized options          ._                               I _
3. Field Test        STE, SMA               IMP, Shell, SCANIA,  06/02-12/05
MAN, Mercedes Benz,
RTP, CCA                 _
4. Technical assistance  SETRAVI, SMA       SMA, WRIVCST, CCA    01/03-12/03
and training for
-113-



incorporation of climate
change and air quality
considerations in the
design and analysis of
transport strategies
5. Public awareness and  SMA, STE           CCA                  07/04-12/07
dissemination
6. Project Management  SMA                   SMA                 01/03-12/07
-114 -



Additional Annex 21: Advisory Committee - Climate Friendly
Vehicles Testing Program
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Terms of Reference
An Advisory Committee will be needed to oversee the Climate Friendly Vehicles Testing Program. The
Committee will serve as a source of general intellectual guidance for the testing program as issues arise
which require special attention and experience. The Committee will be contacted only periodically
concerning general issues arising in the testing program, with progress reports or with installments of
collected data. It should take an interest to insure the success and relevancy of the testing program and
each member should be ready to contribute according to their expertise and experiences.
The responsibilities of the Advisory Committee include:
Communicate with the project manager concerning specific requests made by the Manager.
Answer or solve specific problems as requested by the Manager or Mexican Agencies.
Evaluate draft interim and final reports.
Advise manager or Mexican Agencies of any relevant developments affecting the bus testing program.
Terms of Reference:
Project Manager - Climate Friendly Vehicles Testing Program
The Project Manager will be the person most responsible for the success of the testing program. The
testing program will involve 20 buses in a battery of field and laboratory tests over a 2-year period. The
field tests require the test buses to be run each day on a normal bus route as scheduled by the bus
dispatcher. Data on fuel use and repairs is recorded by the bus depot crew on special forms. Periodically,
each bus will be removed from service and taken to the Mexican Institute of Petroleum for laboratory
testing.
The responsibilities of the Project Manager include:
On a daily basis, check on the status of each bus in the test fleet.
On a daily basis, be aware of the route and time of operation scheduled for each bus in the test fleet.
On a daily basis, be aware of any repairs required for any bus in the test fleet.
On a daily basis, be in commnunication with test fleet bus manufacturers' technical representatives
concerning any repair
or maintenance issues needed for any bus in the test fleet.
On a daily basis, be in communication with the depot crew managers over any general maintenance or
repair issues
involving any bus in the test fleet.
On a daily basis, check on and make copies of Operations Reports filed for each bus in the test fleet.
On a daily basis, check on fuel storage issues for the fuels used by the test fleet.
Periodically, schedule with the Mexican Institute of Petroleum the laboratory testing of buses from the
test fleet,
according to the recommendations of the Mexican Agencies and the Advisory Commiittee and the test
- 115-



schedule.
Periodically, arrange with the bus dispatchers the removal of test buses for laboratory testing.
Periodically, communicate with the Mexican Agencies and the Advisory Committee concerning any
special issues.
Periodically, send data to the Mexican Agencies and the Advisory Committee.
The project manager must have good communication skills to interact with the many stakeholder
involved. He should have proven understanding of the technologies involved and be able to work in
complex and demanding environments. The project manager will have to organize and communicate
collected information effectively and regularly to the project team, Advisory Committee and the Mexican
institutions involved.
- 116 -



Additional Annex 22Footnotes
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
I Mexico City would thus be one of the first cities in the hemisphere with a Climate Action Plan.
2 The two largest are Tokyo with 20 million and Mumbai with 19 million.
3 The MCMA covers an area of 4,945 km2 or about 0.25% of the Mexican territory. It is sited at an altitude of 2,240m above sea
level and surrounded by mountains having an average height of 3,200m and peaks of 5,400m which induces frequent thermal
inversions in its atmosphere. At that altitude the oxygen contents of the air is 23% less than at sea level. Deforestation of the
MCMA has caused disappearance of about 75% of the woods. Moreover, exiting water ponds now are only one percent of their
original size. Population of the MCMA has grown from 3.0 million in 1950 to 11 million in 1975 and 17.2 million in 1995.
Most of the population growth has been outside the Federal District. Currently, the population of the MCMA is estimated at
about 18.8 million of which 51% reside in the Federal District. Population growth is projected at an annual rate of 1.9% from
year 2000 to 2010 and 1.5% from 2010 to 2025, i.e. a population of 22.7 million in 2010 and 28.4 million in 2025. The
increased urban activity of the 4 million additional people expected to live in the MCMA by year 2010 would have an impact on
the environment resulting in a deterioration of the quality of life.
4 Improving Air Ouality in Metropolitan Mexico City :An Economic Valuation. World Bank. draft document. 2001
5 Since tropospheric ozone is highly variable geographically, estimates of its contribution to radiative forcing and global
warming are difficult. But IPCC estimates it at about 0.3 Watts/m2 (meters squared) compared to say 1.4
for C02.
6 Organizaci6n Latinoamericana de Energfa
7 Since the power plants transform the natural gas into electricity with an efficiency of 34.7%, the total final energy consumed in
the MCMA (592 PJ in 1998) is only 94 % of all the energy supplied to it. Consequently, in terms of total final energy
consumption (592 PJ), the transport sector consumes 49%, the residential, commercial and public sectors consume 26%, and the
industry consumes 25%. The agriculture sector consumes less than 0. 17% of the total final
energy. Regarding LPG, the residential, commercial, and public sector consume 85%, the transport 10.4%, and the industry
4.4%. Regarding electricity, 25.3% is generated in the MCMA and the balance is imported to the MCMA where 52% is
consumed by the industry, 43% is consumed by the residential/commercial/public sectors, and 4% is consumed by the transport
sector. Diesel is almost 100% consumed by the transport sector, natural gas is mainly consumed by power plants (41.5%) and
industrial sector (58.4%) and LPG is consumed in 85% by the residential, commercial and public sectors.
8 At the time the study was conducted, the 1998 inventory had not been completed; thus it was decided by the consultants to base
the study on the 1996 inventory.
9 Accounts for C02, and weighted CH4 and N20 emissions, according to IPCC.
10 Electricity generation as a sector only includes the power generation facilities that operate in the MCMA.
11 In the laboratory test the emissions of each bus will be tested in order to measure the expected benefits of alternative fueled
vehicles in form of lower pollutant emissions. The results will be reported in emissions rate (grams per km) and can be compared
from bus to bus and ,in general terms, to buses in other countries and from different tests. The directors of the laboratory will
oversee the testing and report all relevant results to the bus study managers who should coordinate laboratory tests with field
operations. It is recommended that the fuels used during the field operations and laboratory tests should be monitored and tested
for their actual chemical composition.
-117 -



Additional Annex 23: Contribution of private local sources
MEXICO: Introduction of Climate Friendly measures in Transport
Contribution of private local sources
Buses             Quantity Costs
manufacturers     of buses in US $
Scania                   4   300,000.00
Volvo                    4   300,000.00
Mercedes                 4   300,000.00
International            4   300,000.00
Total                      1,200,000.00
Fuel suppliers
Shell                        800,000.00
Total                        800,000.00
OperationfTraining/
Technical Support
Scania                       200,000.00
Volvo                        200,000.00
Mercedes                    200,000.00
International               200,000.00
Shell                        200,000.00
Total                      1,000,000.00
Total Contribution        13,000,000.00
-118-



CD















IMAGING
Report No.:         24871   ME
Type:      PAD



