Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051612 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Introduction of Climate Friendly Measures in Transport Project) 
 
among 
 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PÚBLICOS S.N.C. 
 
and 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated December 13, 2002 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051612
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 2002, among BANCO NACIONAL DE 
OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PÚBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Recipient), UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (UMS), and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to a fund (the GEF Trust 
Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund, authorized the 
first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the GEF 
Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
 
(D) 
the UMS, as eligible recipient country for GEF grants as established in 
Section 9 (b) of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environmental Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project): (i) has requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for 
funding the Project; (ii) has agreed that Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, 
S.N.C. be the recipient of this GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (iii) has agreed that the 
Recipient, and DF be the executors of this GEF Trust Fund Grant;  
(E) 
DF and Edomex have signed an intention letter dated August 8, 2002 
related to the Project and its implementation;  
(F) 
UMS’ request referred in Whereas (D) above has been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2 and is to be 
funded from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (14), 
(15), (16), (18) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), 
(o) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol 
“SDR” mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement”; 
(ii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and in Section 5.01 
(a) thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing agency of 
the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also 
include the Bank acting in its own capacity; 
(iii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means one and/or both of the Recipients; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows:  “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Advisory Board” means the board referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (v) of 
this Agreement;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
“Advisory Test Protocol Panel” means the panel referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) (vi) of this Agreement;  
 (c) 
“DF” 
means 
the 
Distrito Federal
,
as referred to in Article 44 of UMS’ 
Constitution;  
(d) “Edomex” 
means 
Estado de México
 as referred to in Article 43 of UMS’ 
Constitution;  
 
(e) 
“FMR” means the financial monitoring report referred to in Section 4.02 
(a) of this Agreement;  
 
(f)  
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Recipient and DF to the Bank, containing the indicators to be used in monitoring and 
evaluating the implementation of the Project;  
 
(g) 
“Intention Letter” means the letter between DF and Edomex referred to 
in Whereas E of the preamble to this Agreement;  
 
(h) 
“Metropolitan Area” means the DF and its surrounding areas within 
Edomex
;
(i) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
(viii) of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“SEMARNAT” means the UMS’ Environment and Natural Resources 
Secretariat (
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
)
or any successor 
thereto satisfactory to the Bank;  
 (l) 
“SETRAVI” means the DF’s transport and roads secretariat (
Secretaría 
de Transporte y Vialidad
), or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank;   
 (m) 
“SHCP” means the UMS’ Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit 
(
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
)
or
any successor thereto satisfactory to the 
Bank;  
Page  6
-
5
-
(n) 
“SMA” means the DF’s environment secretariat (
Secretaría de Medio 
Ambiente
), or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank;  
 (o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03  
of this Agreement; and 
 
(q) 
“Technical Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) (iii) of this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, and services required for carrying out the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, with the assistance of UMS –
through SEMARNAT- and DF and the collaboration of Edomex, shall carry out the 
Page  7
-
6
-
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, social and environmental standards and practices, as well as in 
conformity with the Operational Manual and the Implementation Letter. 
 
(b)  
The Recipient shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project.   
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  (a) The Recipient shall enter into and comply with the terms of a 
subsidiary agreement with DF, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
DF shall agree to execute the Project through SMA with the assistance of the 
Recipient, UMS –through SEMARNAT- and the collaboration of Edomex, and, to that 
end, DF shall agree to: 
 
(i) 
comply with all the applicable provisions of this Agreement 
(including, 
inter alia
,
provisions related to general execution of 
the Project, as well as procurement and disbursement 
arrangements); 
 
(ii) 
establish and maintain throughout the course of Project 
implementation a Project implementation unit within SMA to 
coordinate SMA’s carrying out of the Project, such unit to at all 
times: (A) be equipped and have sufficient resources to carry out 
its tasks; and (B) be conformed by members and staffed with 
personnel in numbers and with experience and qualifications 
proposed by the Technical Committee and satisfactory to the 
Bank (including a transport specialist, an environmental 
specialist and an administrative assistant);  
 
(iii) 
establish and maintain throughout the course of Project 
implementation a technical committee to, 
inter alia
,
guide and 
support the PIU in the implementation of the Project and 
coordinate the inputs of the agencies of UMS, Edomex and DF 
participating in the Project, such committee to at all times: (A) 
be equipped and have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks; 
(B) be composed by members with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank including: one representative of SMA, a 
representative of SETRAVI, two representatives of Edomex, a 
Page  8
-
7
-
representative of UMS and a representative of Institute for 
World Environment and Resources Studies, Inc.; 
 
(iv) 
ensure that the decisions of the Technical Committee be taken by 
consensus, provided, however, that in the absence of such 
consensus, the representative of SMA shall decide on the 
relevant matter;  
 
(v) 
establish and maintain throughout the course of Project 
implementation an advisory board to advise the Technical 
Committee on technical, scientific and social matters related to 
the Project, such board to at all times: (A) be equipped and have 
sufficient resources to carry out its tasks as proposed by the 
Technical Committee and satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) be 
composed by members with experience and qualifications as 
proposed by the Technical Committee and satisfactory to the 
Bank;  
 
(vi) 
establish and maintain throughout the course of Project 
implementation an advisory test protocol panel to advise the 
Technical Committee on technical, scientific and social matters 
related to Part C of the Project, such panel to at all times: (A) be 
equipped and have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks as 
proposed by the Technical Committee and satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (B) be composed by members with experience and 
qualifications as proposed by the Technical Committee and 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(vii) 
obtain from bus manufacturers and without payment the buses 
required for Part C of the Project;  
 
(viii) 
issue a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth specific 
rules and procedures for implementation of the Project 
(including guidelines for the operation of the Technical 
Committee, Advisory Board and Advisory Test Protocol Panel), 
which manual may be amended by DF from time to time with 
the approval of the Bank and over which, in case of any conflict 
between the terms of said manual and those of this Agreement, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail; 
 
(ix) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practices; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(x) 
comply with the obligations set forth in Sections 9.01, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
respectively to cooperation and information, insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and 
maintenance); and 
 
(xi) 
collaborate with the Recipient and the Bank, and provide the 
Recipient with all relevant information and assistance for the 
Recipient to comply with its obligations under Section 3.04 
(related to future operation of the Project), Section 3.05 (related 
to monitoring and evaluation of the Project) and Article IV of 
this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Subsidiary Agreement.  In case of any conflict between the terms of the Subsidiary 
Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose among the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on the plan mentioned in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 3.05. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained procedures adequate to enable 
monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter, of the carrying out of the Project and of the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, by no later than each February 15 and August 15 
during Project implementation (beginning on the first such date falling at least four 
Page  10
-
9
-
months after the Effective Date), consolidated progress reports on Project 
implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, which reports shall be based on the 
indicators referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, on March 15 and September 15 of each year, the 
consolidated reports, referred to in paragraph (b) above, for such year’s semesters and, as 
a
consequence of such annual review, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
continuation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
contents of said consolidated reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.06. (a) UMS, through SEMARNAT, shall appoint and maintain 
throughout the course of Project implementation a representative on the Technical 
Committee.  UMS agrees that decisions of the Technical Committee shall be taken by 
consensus provided, however, that in the event of not reaching said consensus the 
decision shall be made by the representative of SMA.
 
(b) 
UMS shall not, either by action or inaction (or by action or inaction 
permit any federal sector public entity or parastatal to): (i) prevent or interfere with the 
Recipient’s compliance with its obligations under this Agreement or under the Subsidiary 
Agreement; (ii) prevent or interfere with DF’s compliance of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement; or (iii) prevent or interfere with Edomex’s compliance of its 
obligations under the Intention Letter.
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Conditions 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures 
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of such year: (A) certified copies 
Page  11
-
10
-
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts and a report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Article III of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
explains variances between the planned and actual uses of  such 
funds; 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
 The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
that UMS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement;  
 
(b) 
that DF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement; 
 
(c) 
that Edomex shall have failed to comply with the Intention Letter;  
 
(d) 
 that, as determined by the Bank, Edomex shall have failed to collaborate 
actively in the execution of the Project through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the provision of relevant 
information to DF on environmental, transport and urban development issues; and (ii) 
Edomex’s participation in the Technical Committee; and 
 
(e) 
that, as determined by the Bank, Edomex shall have interfered either by 
action or inaction (or by action or inaction shall have permitted any state sector public 
entity or parastatal to interfere) in the execution of the Project.  
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:  
 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect; 
 
(b) 
that the PIU, the Technical Committee, the Advisory Board and the 
Advisory Test Protocol Panel have been established and are operational; 
 
(c) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into by the Recipient and 
DF;  
 (d) 
that DF’s financial management system is fully operational as stated in 
the Bank’s financial management assessment of DF’s financial management system dated 
July 22, 2002;  
 
(e) 
that terms of reference (satisfactory to the Bank) for the auditors referred 
to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement have been prepared by the Recipient 
through DF; and 
 
(f) 
that: (i) UMS has furnished to the Bank a legal opinion satisfactory to the 
Bank, of SEMARNAT counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that, on behalf of UMS, 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, UMS and is legally binding upon UMS in accordance with its terms; and (ii) 
DF and the Recipient have each furnished to the Bank a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that, on behalf of DF 
and the Recipient, respectively, the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, DF and the Recipient, respectively, 
and is legally binding upon DF and the Recipient, respectively, in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
Section 6.02. The date March 13, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representatives of UMS and the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The 
Director General
 of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient, and the 
Dir
ector General de Crédito Público
 of UMS is 
designated as representative of UMS for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
 
Tecoyotitla 100, Piso 3 
 
Colonia Florida 
 
01030
México, D.F. 
 
México 
 
Facsimile:  
Telex: 
 
11-52-55-723-6291 BNOSME 
01772619 
 
Mexico City 
 
For UMS: 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional (piso 3), oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
México 
 
Facsimile:  
Telex: 
 
011-52-91-58-1156 1777313-SHOCME 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Facsimile:  
Telex: 
 
202-477-6391  
248423 
(MCI) 
 
64145
(MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BANCO NACIONAL  
 
DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. 
 
By /s/ Sergio Rodríguez Medrano 
Authorized Representative 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Alonso García Tamés 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
 
Facility 
 
By  /s/ Mark Hagerstrom  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant  
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
258,000 
86% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services 
4,142,000 
83% of local  
 
expenditures and  
 
100%
of foreign  
 
expenditures 
 
________
TOTAL 4,400,000 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”. 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods under contracts costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) consulting services provided by firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) consulting services provided 
Page  18
-
17
-
by individuals under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to develop policies, regulations and measures to 
make transport in the Metropolitan Area more efficient, less polluting and less carbon 
intensive than it is as of the date of this Agreement. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Harmonization of Air Quality and Related Strategies
1. 
Evaluation and harmonization of the plans prepared by DF and Edomex on 
environment, transport and urban development for the Metropolitan Area. 
 
2.  
Design (based on the evaluation and harmonization of plans referred in Part A.1 
above), implementation and monitoring of an integrated metropolitan climate change 
action plan for the Metropolitan Area, which shall include mitigation measures for the 
damages caused to the environment by, 
inter alia
,
industries, big energy consumers and 
transport activities. 
 
Part B:
Enabling Environment for Sustainable Transport Strategies
1.  
Preparation of the institutional framework required to integrate bus and metro 
transportation in the Metropolitan Area through: (a) the carrying out of an analysis of the 
institutional and commercial barriers to such integration; (b) the elaboration of a proposal 
for public transport (including metro) corridors in the Metropolitan Area; and (c) the 
design and carrying out of a survey to determine the spatial distribution of transport 
demands. 
 
2.  
Carrying out of an analysis of the regulations applicable to public transport 
(including metro) operating in the public transport (including metro) corridors referred in 
Part B.1.(b) above. 
 
3.  
Carrying out of an economic and financial assessment of business options for the 
public transport (including metro) corridors referred in Part B.1.(b) above. 
 
4.  
Design of measures to promote metro ridership in the Metropolitan Area.  
 
5.  
Carrying out of a plan for non-motorized transport in the Metropolitan Area 
including issuance of required regulations, identification of incentives, diagnosis of 
required infrastructure and implementation of promotion campaigns. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Part C:
Test of Climate-Friendly High Capacity Vehicles
1.  
Carrying out of a comparative pilot field test for Metropolitan Area alternative 
bus and fuel technologies and modern and standard diesel vehicles measuring, inter alia, 
emissions, operating costs, and fuel efficiency. 
 
2.  
Development of a scientific test protocol adapted to the Metropolitan Area that 
can produce significant data on emission reductions, fuel efficiency and operating and 
maintenance costs of transport systems. 
 
Part D:
Technical Assistance and Training
1.  
Carrying out of a review of the transport planning regulations of SETRAVI.  
 
2.  
Carrying out of an analysis of costs, benefits and environmental impacts of 
current sustainable transport projects in the Metropolitan Area.  
 
3.  
Development of methodologies for measurement and verification of emissions 
from Metropolitan Area public ground transport. 
 
4.  
Provision of training to bus operators, mechanics and maintenance staff on the 
operation of the buses used in the pilot field test referred to in Part C.1 above. 
 
5.  
Review and development of emission standards and transport regulations 
proposals to be applied in the Metropolitan Area. 
 
6.  
Provision of training and support to SETRAVI’s staff for contracting and 
coordinating market studies on the technology required for buses under Part C.1 above. 
 
7.  
Training of officials and staff of UMS, Edomex, DF, companies that manufacture 
the buses required under Part C.1 above and transport operators, academics and NGOs on 
the climate change action plan referred in Part A.2 above.  
 
Part E
:
Public Awareness and Dissemination 
Campaign
Carrying out of a public awareness and dissemination campaign on the 
advantages and benefits for the Metropolitan Area of using high capacity vehicles and 
non-motorized transport.   
 
Page  21
-
20
-
Part F
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, training and material support to SMA and the 
PIU in order to assist in their Project implementation functions. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the UMS. 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
Page  23
-
22
-
All invitations to bid shall be published in the UMS’ public electronic advertising 
and bidding system (
COMPRANET
)
and in the UMS’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de 
la Federación
). 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods procured following the procedures under 
Parts B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Page  24
-
23
-
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997,   January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the 
short list of consultants, for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,780,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines up to an aggregate amount of $2,360,000 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Page  25
-
24
-
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $560,000 (five 
hundred sixty thousand Dollars) to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $300,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $450,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
