Report No. 23645
Report No: i074885 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/05/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: UKRAINE         Project ID: P074885
Project: Ukraine E-Development Project Task Team Leader: Andrei Mikhnev
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 20, 2001 IBRD Amount ($m): 5.00
Bank Approval: May 30, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSPF     Sector: MY - Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the proposed project is to enhance efficiency
of the Government actions, foster private sector development, and
strengthen Civil Society in Ukraine through the introduction of innovative
models of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) solutions.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Project consists of four components:
1. The E-Government component provides for the development and
introduction of the public e-procurement and e-documentation flow models
aimed at increasing efficiency, transparency and accountability of
Government actions.
The E-procurement sub-component will develop, and launch the most
appropriate solution to digitize public procurement for National
Competitive Bidding of goods, services and works. Fine-tuning of the
developed model will be based on feedbacks and recommendations from public
agencies and vendors to assure its replicability.
The E-documentation flow subcomponent will find the best suitable solution
for the automation and reengineering of the decision-making processes in
two pilot state agencies. The model aims to digitize the preparation,
appraisal, approval, implementation, supervision, and completion phases of
the documents flow.
The training needs will be assessed, training modules developed and
training sessions provided for respective Government officials to ensure a
smooth shift to electronic procurement and documentation flow.
2. The E-Business Environment component will assess the main bottlenecks
in current legislation that hamper e-business growth. Essential
corresponding regulatory acts that enable on-line business transactions
will be developed. The Private Sector in Ukraine has a capacity to develop
the infrastructure needed for on-line transactions. However, the current
legal vacuum creates costly risks and uncertainties that prevent the
private sector from large investments in on-line business. Following a
detailed analysis of the current e-legislation the contracted firm will
work closely with the Government and Private Sector to develop and
introduce, or submit to the Parliament, regulatory acts, which would open
possibilities for on-line transactions to the Government, private
businesses and citizens. This component will complement other TAL



components by securing a favorable e-business regulatory environment.
3. The E-Democracy component will provide for on-line tools for a dialogue
between public authorities and representatives of Private Sector and Civil
Society. Introduction of these tools would i) improve public sector
transparency and accountability, and ii) strengthen the role and
involvement of Civil Society in the governance process. The component will
facilitate the Ukrainian NGOs' and Private Sector representatives'
leadership in strengthening Public-Private Partnership and in increasing
the voice of the Ukrainians through a series of on-line and off-line
seminars, workshops, public hearings, and conferences. The Ukraine
e-development web-portal (http://www.e-ukraine.org/) built under the World
Bank Development Gateway Project, and capacities created within the Global
Development Learning Network Project, (
http://www.uapa-dlc.org.ua/indexe_new.htm) could serve as possible entry
points for this activity.
4. Administrations and Monitoring. Project activities will be
administrated and monitored by the experienced Project Implementation
Unit. The component will provide for an independent assessment of the
lessons learned from the introduction of the TAL models. In addition, the
contracted consultants should develop practical recommendations for
further expansion and replication of the models developed within the
Project.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Ukraine
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: No civil or rehabilitation works anticipated
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The Project has no foreseeable negative impacts on different social
- 2 -



groups. Consequently, the Project presents no notable social risks.
The Project does not have environmental risks and has been qualified as an
Environmental Category "C".
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
No safeguard policies have been triggered.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
No negative long term impacts are anticipated.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not required.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The Project uses the participatory approach for more efficient
preparation. The Bank team holds intensive consultations with Ukraine's
state agency, NGOs and representatives of Private Sector.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
-3-



Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Andrei Mikhnev  December 12, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   January 22, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Paul J. Siegelbaum       January 24, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



