Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25752
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO
UKRAIE
FOR
E-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 10, 2003
Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 8, 2003)
Currency Unit = Hryvnya (UAH)
UAH 100 = US$18.75
US$100 = UAH 533.45
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Report
EDAL         Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EU           European Union
FMR          Financial Monitoring Report
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GAAP         Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IC           Individual Consultants
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICT          Informnation and Communication Technologies
IFAC         Intemational Federation of Accountants
IS           Intemational Shopping
ISA          Intemational Standards of Auditing
IT           Infornation Technology
ITU          Intemational Telecommunication Union
LCS          Least Cost Selection
NBU          National Bank of Ukraine
NGO          Non-Govemmental Organization
MOEIEI       Ministry of Economy and Issues of European Integration
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIUI         Project Implementation Unit
QCBS         Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RIC          Regional Information Center
SA           Special Account
SDP          Standard Disbursement Percentage
SME          Small and Medium Enterprise
SOEs         Statement of Expenditures
TORs         Terms of References
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
URL          Uniform Resource Locator
USAID        United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:   Khaled F. Sherif
Task Team Leader:   Andrei Mikhnev



UKRAINE
E-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                    9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      15
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                         15
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                        16
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Environmental                                                                    18
6. Social                                                                           18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Crtical rnsks                                                                    21



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     22
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            22
2. Other                                                                              22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         31
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             32
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               36
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       37
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   53
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  54
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            55
MAP(S)
Ukraine



UKRAINE
E-Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: April 9, 2003                              Team Leader: Andrei Mikhnev
Sector Manager: Khaled F. Sherif                 Sector(s): Law and justice (60%), General industry and
Country Director: Luca Barbone                   trade sector (20%), General information and
Project ID: P074885                              communications sector (20%)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s): Administrative and civil service reform (P),
Regulation and competition policy (P), Public expenditure,
financial management and procurement (S), Civic
engagement, participation and community driven
development (S)
Project Financing Data t     t      .      : -t.- '
[XI Loan    [ Credit     [ Grant     [I Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 5
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
FiriiiIng.PFian (US$m). 7   Sourc'fSe-          Local.- 7-  .  Foe n-.                  'T
BORROWER                                                       1.00          0.00          1.00
IBRD                                                          0.25           4.75          5.00
Total:                                                         1.25          4.75          6.00
Borrower: UKRAINE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND ISSUES OF EUROPEAN INTEGRATION
Address: 12/2 Hrushevskoho St., Kiev, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Ihor Shumylo, First Deputy State Secretary
Tel: (380 44) 293 9468         Fax: (380 44) 293 7435          Email: ishumilo@me.gov.ua
Other Agency(ies):
PIT
Address: 28 Druzhby Narodiv Blvd., office 426, Kyiv, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Mykola Korol
Tel: (380 44) 296 9771         Fax: (380 44) 261 1714          Email: nkorol@ukr.net
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Fy-       . i 2004   2--005-     2006._   - .              .  . - -               -
Annual      1.00      2.40       1.60
Cumulative     1.00      3.40       5.00
Project implementation period: January 2004 - June 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2004 Expected closing date: 12/31/2006



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed project is to enhance efficiency of the Government's
decision-making process for public procurement and documentation flow, foster private sector
development, and strengthen civil society in Ukraine through the introduction of innovative models of
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) solutions.
The Project is focused on three areas: E-Government, E-Business Enviromnent, and Public-Private
E-Dialogue. The first component, E-Govemment, will introduce e-procurement and e-documentation
flow models, which could substantially improve efficiency in Ukraine's public administration at the
central and regional levels. The E-Business Environment component will create the legal and regulatory
framework, which will allow on-line transactions in Ukraine to be recognized as legally binding. This
legal framework will be based on best practices and compatible with the EU standards. The third
component, Public-Private E-Dialogue, will develop on-line models and tools for enhancing public
involvement in the governance processes through active participation in the development of public
polices and regulatory decision making process.
The outcomes of the Project and lessons learned would be used to demonstrate the benefits of applying
best ICT solutions to overcome and manage selected development problems of transitional economies.
The proposed solutions would, if implemented, improve transparency and efficiency within the Ukrainian
bureaucracy, and thus attain the Project development objective. The achieved results are to facilitate
initiation of larger projects that would spread out developed models across the country. This would
improve administrative decision-making processes at all levels of govermment, which would lead to better
system of governance. Additional benefits to the general population would include reduced costs in time
and administrative expenses to obtain administrative approvals, licenses, documents, etc. This would
have a spill-over effect of enabling the private sector to improve its efficiency.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The Project performance will be measured through the sets of outcome and output indicators specified
below.
Outcome indicators:
o   Twenty per cent reduction of time and administrative costs in pilot state agencies, along with
improved efficiency in the government procurement and documentation flow systems, 12 months
after the Project completion;
o   Doubling the average number of bidders per e-tender comparing with previous paper-based practice,
12 months after the Project completion;
o   Forty per cent increase in the volume of on-line business transactions, along with an increasing
investment flow into the IT sector, 12 months after the Project completion;
o   Increase in the number of citizens and NGOs using ICT as an additional mean to participate in the
governance process, upon the Project completion;
o Improved public access to on-line governmental information together with the scope of information
from the government bodies is increased during the Project implementation;
o   New projects in the E-Development area are started.
Output indicators from each Project component:
1. E-Government
o   Models of public e-procurement and e-documentation flow systems are implemented and operational
-2 -



in the pilot state agencies;
* Developed models are replicated at five state agencies within two years of the Project completion;
* Necessary legal and regulatory amendments are made so that all e-documentation filings and
processes are recognized as valid;
* Institutional and/or regulatory changes necessary for smooth introduction of the developed models
are made;
* At least 50 governmental employees staff are trained in policies, procedures, operations and
functions of the developed models.
2. E-Business Environment
*   Developed package of the legislative, regulatory, and normative acts is introduced;
*   Introduced legal and regulatory changes comply with the relevant EU directives.
3. Public-Private E-Dialogue
* Developed on-line tools for public interaction with authorities are utilized by public in their dialogue
with public authorities;
* National web-site and two regional web-sites for on-line dialogue are operational and are being
maintained;
*   Pilot Regional Information Centers are staffed, equipped and operational.
4. Administration and Monitoring
* The PrU with qualified personnel successfully implemented and administered the Project;
* The developed models are assessed and recommendations for replication are issued.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 20723-UA Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/12/2000
One of the main goals of the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ukraine for the period of
financial years 2001-2003 is to assist Ukraine in attaining sustainable economic growth.
Under this goal the proposed Project specifically supports thefollowing CAS objectives:
1)     Ensuring good governance, transparency and accountability in public sector
The E-Government component of this project aims to enhance accountability and transparency in the
Government operations. In this regard, implementation of the electronic document processing model will
improve government decision-making processes, lower transaction costs, and limnit the opportunities for
unfair discretionary actions and corruption. Improved access to information by the governrment officials
will enhance their efficiency. The introduction of the e-documentation flow model will streamline
day-to-day regulatory and administrative processes, reduce operational costs, improve quality of
documentation, ensure standardization, transparency and fairness of decision-making procedures.
The introduction of the e-procurement model will increase transparency in public procurement processes.
It will also ease access to information concerning government programs and services, as well as improve
dissemination of information on bidding of public contracts, and ensure the process is more fair and
competitive. This will level the playing field for the firms with no personal contacts to the Government,
enabling them to have the chance to become suppliers of goods, works and services to the Government.
Additionally, improved competitiveness will lower costs on public contracts and create incentives for
greater efficiency in private sector suppliers of goods and services on public contracts.
The introduction of an on-line dialogue between the authorities, civil society and the private sector at the
national and regional levels will enhance the role of civil society and the private sector in affecting
- 3 -



authorities' decisions and actions. It would also increase the Government's awareness of Ukrainian
society's needs and priorities, and help it to be more oriented toward them.
2)     Building a basisfor sustainable private enterprise
The project will aim to develop regulatory changes necessary to eliminate regulatory obstacles that
impede development of e-business in Ukraine. They will be based on the best practices, intemational
experience and EU standards. A developed legislative framework will enable on-line business
transactions, reduce time needed for performing transactions and lower overall transaction costs. As a
result, Ukrainian enterprises would have easier access to new markets, streamlined operations, and
improved customer satisfaction. This component will contribute to the sustainability of private
enterprises.
3)     Helping Civil Society increase its voice for better government and social services provision
The proposed Project opens doors and builds civil society capacity by empowering people who have
never participated in the governance process with on-line tools to deliver their voice to the authorities.
One of the central goals of the Project is to strengthen public-private partnership by facilitating active
interaction and communication between public authorities, civil society and the private sector. The
proposed Project creates an ICT-driven framework that increases opportunities for vulnerable groups to
participate in the governance process. The Project would increase on-line capacity of the vulnerable
groups to address their needs and priorities, including gender issues. A wider introduction of ICT would
encourage on-going dialogue among policy makers and NGOs about best practices for incorporation of
their concems in the Govermnent projects and programs. ICT enabled exchange of experience,
knowledge sharing and access to the global market information would open new opportunities and links
for networking.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
In Ukraine, the use of ICTs, especially those related to the Internet, is still in the infant stage of
development. Privatization of the main state telecom monopoly - Ukrtelecom - has just begun, and thus,
the telecommunication sector in Ukraine cannot yet meet the market demands. Currently, the ICT Sector
in Ukraine is characterized by:
o   the absence of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, which validates online transactions,
o an undeveloped infrastructure and logistical systems,
o   an expensive access to the Intemet, and
o poor local content development.
Thus, these uncertainties and limitations inhibit private investment into the sector, preventing
full-fledged utilization of the Intemet-related technologies for economic and social development.
Currently, Ukrainian companies are using the Intemet for information and communication rather than for
commerce. Recently, Ukrainian companies have started using Intemet opportunities. Today there are
about 70 e-commerce sites. There is a noticeable interest among Ukrainian companies in conducting
on-line business transactions. According to some studies, 79.3% of corporate Internet users know about
business-to-business opportunities, and 52.8% are interested in utilizing them.
Today, the share of business-to-business on-line activity comparing to offline is negligible in Ukraine.
No company can execute on-line transactions, therefore the existing virtual marketplaces fimctioning in
Ukraine are, at best, electronic versions of company price-lists. Cash on delivery or traditional banking
-4-



transaction settlements are the most common methods of e-commerce payment.
Currently, there is virtually no possibility for online interaction between the Govemment, businesses, and
citizens. Although most of the Ukraine's state agencies have their web-sites, only a limited number of
state agencies' web-sites display even basic information such as hours of operation, contact information
and list of services. At present, many state organizations are considering the possibility of enhancing
their web-sites in order to execute the Decree of the President of Ukraine on "Measures for developing
the national part of the global information network - Internet - and securing wide access to it in
Ukraine".
An example of the Government institutions coming online with interactive tools could be the official site
of the Ukrainian Security Service - http://www.sbu.gov.ua. Recently, some Governrnent officials have
begun to participate in the Internet foruns and conduct on-line conferences.
Box 1: Sector Statistics
Researches, conducted separately by Taylor Nelson Sofres Interactive and SpyLOG Ukraine show
that 41% of respondents were aware about available Internet services, 2.5% responded that they
regularly use the Internet, and 4% said that they use Internet occasionally. As of the end of 2002
there are around 1.1 million regular users of Internet in Ukraine.
The majority of Ukrainian Internet users are male (61%). Internet is regularly used primarily by
young people: 43% of users are 25-39 years old, 32% are 18-24, and only 25% of users are over 40
years old.
In terms of the education level, people with graduate education constitute the majority - 79% of
users. Those currently employed constitute 80% of users, the most of the remaining 20% of users
are full-time students. Most of the users are white-color workers with 55% being specialists of
different kind, 21% - managers of all levels, 12% - office clerks. Only 6% of users are blue-color
workers.
Up to 20 % of the Intemet users are government employees, 30-40 % are corporate customers,
10-18% are medium and small businesses, 22-30% are miscellaneous customers.
There are 23,969 web-servers (2,075,510 URLs) in Ukraine, 80% of them are in Russian, 14% in
Ukrainian and 4% use both languages that constitute around 0.5 domains per 1000 people in
Ukraine. Only 9% of all Ukrainian web-sites are located outside of Ukraine. There are about 360
intemet service providers.
According to the market research of the Ukraine Marketing Group, which covered 400 corporate
Internet users in 7 regions where Intemet is the most developed, 63.5% of companies did not have
their corporate web-sites. Most of them (93.4%) think that modem Ukrainian company should have
at least a web-page, and 57.1% are interested in creating their own page. The list of Ukrainian
entities interested in web-pages are mass media companies, IT companies, major exporters, major
wholesalers, personnel service companies, govemment agencies, financial institutions and research
centers. For the last two years the situation has changed dramatically and the number of corporate
web-sites has grown significantly: at the beginning of 1999 number of corporate web-sites did not
exceed 1,400, at the beginning of 2002 their number totaled 24,000.
Government Strategy
The Govemment of Ukraine has yet to develop its comprehensive E-Government strategy. However,
several important regulatory steps have been made in this direction:
o   Law of Ukraine #74-98/VR on the National Informatization Program adopted on February 4,
- 5-



1998 outlined general framework aiming to establish necessary conditions for supplying
citizens of Ukraine with updated, reliable and comprehensive information disseminated
through ICT means and with necessary security provisions. The main objectives declared by
the Law are:
- establishment of legal, economical, institutional, financial and other prerequisites for
Informatization;
- introduction and development new technologies in social life of Ukrainian citizens;
- formation and support of the market of information products and services;
- Ukraine's integration into global networked society.
This Law describes general functional responsibilities of the state bodies regarding the
National Informatization Program and administrative procedures for creation of the state
programs in the area of Informatization.
o   The President of Ukraine issued the Decree #928/2000 on the Measures for Developing the
National Part of the Global Information Network - Internet, and Securing Wide Access to It
in Ukraine dated July 31, 2000, outlining the Government targets and priorities in developing
the Ukrainian part of the World Wide Web (Internet). In particular, the Decree contains the
clauses demanding:
- provision of citizens with a wide Internet-enabled access to information;
- improvement of the Government and the State information presentation in the Internet;
- facilitation of the Govenmment support in development of infrastructure enabling use of
Internet;
- development of legal and administrative framework facilitating electronic business and
proliferation of use of the Internet resources in Ukraine;
- development of general requirements to the Government agencies to make information
available to the Web and to establish presence of all central government agencies and
regional state administrations (in Ukrainian and English languages) in the Intemet;
- promotion of information technologies in the agencies of state administration, health
care, public finance, and national economy administration.
o   The First Deputy Prime-Minister of Ukraine approved the Concept of the essential elements
of E-Development in Ukraine (letter #2-1507/9 dated 21.05.2001) that includes:
- improving transparency of operations of the Government of Ukraine through
introduction of the public E-Procurement and E-Documentation Flow models in selected
departments of the Ministry of Economy and Issue of European Integration (MOEIEI)
and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine;
- developing models for on-line dialogue between public authorities and civil society at
the national and regional level with the use of ICT;
- creating the regulatory framework based on international experience and standards to
enable on-line business transactions.
These and other legal documents demonstrate Government's commitment to the sector development.
However, due to the limited financial and human resources available (for the National Informatization
Program only UAH 8 million UAH, i.e. about $1.5 million, were allocated from the budget funds), they
have not been properly implemented.
Many Ukrainian ministries and other governmental agencies (e.g. Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of
Finance, State Treasury) are planning or have already initiated restructuring/enhancement of their
intemal information systems, business processes re-engineering, and introduction of some forms of
electronic document flow. Unfortunately, the lack of comprehensive strategy and lack of budget funds
resulted in the fact that only few of them use the E-Govemment approach and Internet-based solutions as
the technological platform and basis for re-designing of business processes. It means that soon they will
- 6 -



have to spend time and resources again to re-design their systems to fit E-Government requirements. This
cost could be minimized by using E-Government-oriented approach applied or at least taken into account
now.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project aims at increasing the efficiency and transparency of the Government activities in the public
procurement and documentation flow areas by delivering responsive, cost-effective services to citizens
and businesses, and at involving civil society in the governance process. The project will provide a wider,
deeper and longer-term perspective, by assessing the overall impact of the E-Government, E-Business
and E-Dialogue elements on the functioning and operation of the government and public. It also would
facilitate private sector development by introducing more competition in public procurement of goods
and services, and by enabling on-line business transactions through appropriate legislative framework.
The Project is expected to contribute to development of the legislative framework compatible to the
applicable EU standards, while taking into consideration the local conditions. This is an appropriate
strategic choice, as its impact would benefit the development of infrastructure needed for e-government
and e-commerce, online payments and logistics systems. It will have a positive impact on both public and
private sector development, and results in expansion of private sector participation. Currently in Ukraine
there are two contradictory and competing approaches to coherent development of an appropriate
strategic framework:
i) business-oriented, market-driven demand for development of the legislation based on the market
needs, which would facilitate Ukraine's integration into the European and international online
business community;
ii) "national security"-oriented, state control-driven approach based on the use of local standards.
The Project will promote a market-driven approach, which would foster development of the ICT
industry, infrastructure building, access to online services and local content, and extend Internet
penetration in Ukraine.
The Project would strengthen public-private partnership by facilitating active interaction and
communication between state authorities, civil society and private sector. The Project will support and
benefit from increasing pressure of the private sector and the civil society on the Government institutions
to enhance public administration efficiency. The Project would also answer the question of whether the
larger operations in this area are feasible.
Implementation of the E-Government, E-Business and E-Dialogue models at the national and regional
levels would have strong demonstration effect on how the innovative ICT solutions can contribute to
sustainable, accelerated and broad based economic growth.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1.    The E-Government component provides for development and introduction of the public
E-Procurement and E-Documentation flow models aimed at increasing efficiency and transparency of the
Government actions.
The E-Procurement sub-component will design and launch the most appropriate solution to digitize
public procurement for National Competitive Bidding procedures for goods, services and works,
encompassing a legal analysis of the Borrower's procurement legal framework and the proposal of
- 7 -



amendments required to facilitate introduction of the Internet-based transactions in the procurement
cycle, and carrying out a pilot testing in one of the Borrower's state agencies with larger volume of the
procurement transactions. Fine-tuning of the developed model will be based on the feedbacks and
recommendations from public agencies and vendors to assure its replicability.
The E-Documentation flow subcomponent will develop the most appropriate model for documentation
flow to increase efficiency of the decision-making processes (preparation, appraisal, approval,
implementation, supervision and completion phases) of the document flow for issuing and monitoring the
resolutions and orders of the Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers, extended pilot testing thereof, and
introduction of a workflow information system to allow the secure processing and exchange of
e-documents between and within the participating agencies.
The training needs will be assessed, training modules developed and training sessions provided for
respective Government officials to ensure a smooth shift to electronic procurement and documentation
flow.
2.     The E-Business Enviironment component will assess the main bottlenecks in current legislation
that hamper e-business growth. Legislative, nonnative and regulatory environment adequate to accelerate
enabling on-line transactions will be developed. It will also provide framework for their introduction and
secure a favorable e-business regulatory environment for the other Parts of the Project, thereby
complementing them. The private sector in Ukraine has a capacity to develop the infrastructure needed
for on-line transactions. However, the current legal vacuum creates costly risks and uncertainties that
prevent the private sector from large investments in on-line business. Following a detailed analysis of the
current e-legislation the contracted firm will work closely with the Government and private sector to
develop and introduce, or submit to the Parliament, regulatory acts, which would open possibilities for
on-line transactions to the Government, private businesses and citizens. This component will complement
other TAL components by securing a favorable e-business regulatory environment.
3.     The Public-Private E-DIiaRogue component will provide for on-line tools for an exchange of
ideas between public authorities and representatives of private sector and civil society at the national and
regional levels. Introduction of these tools would i) improve public sector transparency, and ii)
strengthen the role and involvement of civil society in the governance process. The component will
strengthen the Ukrainian NGOs and private sector representatives' leadership in public-private
partnership by increasing the voice of the Ukrainians through a series of on-line and off-line seminars,
workshops, public hearings, and conferences. The Ukraine E-Development web-portal (
http:/Hwww.e-ukraine.org/) built in conjunction with the World Bank Development Gateway Project, and
capacities created within the Global Development Learning Network Project, (
http://www.uapa-dlc.org.ua/indexe.html) could serve as possible entry points for this activity.
4.     Administrations and Monitoring component will support the successful maintenance of the
PIU and the Inter-Agency Working Group so as to ensure efficient Project management and
maximization of the demonstration effect of the Project by carrying out thorough monitoring and
evaluation of the Project's activities, including carrying out of the annual audit of the Loan and
independent assessments of the developed models, and provision of recommendations for the future
dissemination of such models.
~~~~~-     .:    - ICl-,:1n -                  hI<>.3t -l      of             >nn0G mD"
.   ' I',   -' .   f .-z        -R  'I     -o O         i!ancing  n2n
E-Government                                         2.55      42.5       1.85      37.0
E-Business Environment                               0.80       13.3      0.80      16.0
Public-Private E-Dialogue                            2.10      35.0       1.80      36.0
-8 -



Administration and Monitoring                        0.45       7.5     0.45       9.0
Unallocated                                          0.05       0.8     0.05       1.0
Total Project Costs  5.95     99.2      4.95      99.0
Front-end fee   0.05       0.8      0.05       1.0
Total Financing Required   6.00     100.0      5.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project involves cross-sectoral efforts and will complement and contribute to activities, which the
Government of Ukraine undertakes under public administration and social sector reforms, and business
environment improvement. In particular, it will (i) enhance efficiency and transparency of public
administration performance through introduction of appropriate technologies and policies ensuring
corresponding behavioral changes; (ii) improve quality and availability of the public services paving the
way for innovation and replicable models for the efficient and transparent public services offering
efficient online capabilities as an alternative to inefficient bureaucratic processes; (iii) build the
institutional capacity of central and local governments and NGOs in the formulation, management and
provision of public services by introduction of the modern accessible communication tools; (iv) empower
civil society and NGO participation and involvement in decision making and governance processes by
providing the effective procedures and tools of two-way communication; (v) improve the business
environment by building legal and regulatory framework for e-business growth and recognition of online
transactions as legally binding.
Achieving Project objectives requires strong coherence between the Government policy in this area and
private sector initiatives. The Government should introduce a favorable policy framework, which will
encourage liberalization and competition, as well as strengthen the legal framework for contractual and
property rights regimes to foster investment in the sector. The Project will contribute to this process by
utilizing international expertise and best practices to support development and modernization of the
existing legal and regulatory framework.
The Project also seeks to move Ukraine closer to the European Union standards, thus fostering
sustainable development of private sector and creating investment-conducive business environment.
3. Benefits and target population:
By supporting the Government's long-term public administration reform efforts, the Project will benefit
the entire population, and bring even greater outlook representing a demand-driven attempt to change the
public administration system from inside. A shift to modem administration methods brought about by the
ICT intervention, rather than attempts to change public behavior that relies on the rules from the past,
may result in faster transition to on-line public services. The poor will benefit from improved quality and
availability of public services first, as they are not able to substitute them with private ones.
The Project will have strong implications for generating and strengthening social awareness,
consolidation of the target groups' efforts through participatory institutional and human development.
The proposed Project creates an ICT-driven framework that increases opportunities for vulnerable groups
to participate in the governance process. The Project would increase on-line capacity of these groups to
address their needs, concerns and priorities on all issues, including gender equality. A wider application
of ICT would encourage a dialogue among policy makers and NGOs about the best practices for
incorporating the views, concerns and priorities of more vulnerable groups into the Government projects
and programs.
The Project will improve the legal environment in the e-business area, thus helping to form and enhance
a wide range of the development applications - from e-commerce and e-government to assistance to
-9-



small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, from providing on-line tools to different communities to better
access to knowledge and information.
In long term, the Project will reduce obstacles that impede greater penetration of the Ukrainian private
enterprises to the Web, promote development of web-based products, facilitate SME activity in the
regional and global markets, and allow enterprises to operate more efficiently and provide their services
to customers anywhere in the world.
4. Ilnstitutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed project will be implemented over a period of thirty months (January 1, 2004 - June 30,
2006). The following summarizes the institutional arrangements and project management responsibilities.
Ministry of Economy and l[ssues of European lintegration of Ukraine is the agency responsible for
coordination of the Project activities with other Ministries, state agencies, and regional administrations
related to the Project implementation as well as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
The MOEIEI will perform the following functions:
o   participate in development of the Project documentation;
a   provide documents necessary to launch the Project implementation;
o   adjust and approve relevant Project documents;
o   control the Project implementation;
o   provide expert support to the Project;
o   provide economic information for the Project implementation;
o   coordinate the work of the Government institutions involved in the Project; and
o   mobilize additional resources for the Project implementation.
Ministry of Finance of Ukraine
Under the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated October 10, 2001, # 1317 "On the
Procedure for Preparation and Implementation of Ukraine's Social and Economic Development Projects
Supported by International Finance Institutions", the Ministry of Finance will supervise the efficient
disbursement and timely repayment of foreign loans.
Project ]lmplementation Unit (PIM
The main tasks of the Project Implementation Unit are:
o   managing all relevant activities to fulfill Project tasks, including the required tenders to hire
consultants, ensuring methodological and staff support;
o   monitoring the Project implementation progress, and, on the basis of conclusions from the
performance analysis of the Project implementation, reviewing and adjusting the Project
implementation program;
o   monitoring fulfillment of the Project tasks;
o   reporting to the responsible agencies of the Ukraine's Government and to the Bank on all issues
of the Project implementation; and
o   preparing appropriate financial documentation for the Ministry of Finance.
Summary reports, drawn upon completion of each Project Component, and semi-annual Financial
Monitoring Reports shall be submitted to the Bank and MOEIEI. Based on the results of monitoring
analysis of the project progress, the PIU experts shall work out proposals for improvement of Project
implementation efficiency. These proposals shall be included in the reports structure as a separate
section.
- 10-



Implementation arrangements
Financial management
A Project Implementation Unit is created according to the order of the MOEIEI # 81 dated 22 March
2002. This PIU is responsible for the financial management of the Project and this obligation is to be
fulfilled in accordance with the above-mentioned order. The PIU financial management system will
represent has been set up as a separate financial management system, which is not the part of the
financial management system of the MOEIEI. Taking in account that PIU is not a separate legal entity
PIU will prepare financial reports on behalf of MOEIEI, according to the complying with local
requirements as well as PIU will be responsible for reports preparation to the Bank requirements.The
MOEIEI of Ukraine and Ministry of Finance of Ukraine will exercise control over all disbursements and
expenditures made by the PIU.
The financial flows will comprise mainly of: (a) direct payments of loans from Project loan account; (b)
payments from the Special Account according to the procedures and requirements of the Bank, which
will be opened with a foreign commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. Expenses in local currency
financed from the SA will be disbursed through the transfer account to the State Treasury Account
opened for the Project; (c) co-financing funds flow through the Treasury Account opened for the
implementing agency.
Procurement arrangements
Project procurement arrangements include procurement of goods and consultants' services and follow the
latest editions of the Bank guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" and "Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" accordingly.
Procurement under the Project shall be managed by the PIU using relevant Bank standard procurement
documentation and Operations Manual, developed by the PIU and approved by the Bank. The PIU shall
be adequately staffed with experienced and trained specialists, including a procurement specialist to
manage procurement under the project with the permanent assistance of the lawyer and the financial
manager.
The Procurement Plan was reviewed during the Negotiations in March 2003 and will be regularly
updated.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following major alternatives have been discussed by the Bank and the Borrower during the Project
design:
(a) comprehensive introduction of all the elements of E-Development at the national level. This approach
would require extensive legislative changes in the area of public procurement, electronic commerce, and
documentation flow. It is unlikely that Ukraine's legislative bodies, with very little knowledge of the
benefits of new technologies, would be responsive to such an initiative. The E-Readiness Assessment
(see Annex 8) also exposed unreadiness of state bodies to implement such comprehensive approach in
terms of qualifications of human resources, existing capacities for maintenance, and an overall structure
of the public administration system. In addition, substantial financial resources would be required for
implementation of such an approach, which, combined with the legal uncertainties and institutional
weakness may result in the failure to meet the Project objectives. Thus, this approach was rejected as
highly risky, with uncertain outcomes and its implementation in Ukraine at present stage was considered
rather unrealistic.



(b) gradual aMproach based on introduction of the modem ICT solutions in the key critical areas at the
national level.
This approach, while more appropriate to the local conditions in terms of legal system and technology
advancement, would miss the essential component - the regional outreach. As the Project aims to
replicate successful models as broadly as possible to reach the maximum efficiency, building regional
capacity is essential for achieving Project objectives and sustainability. The Borrower and the Bank
rejected this alternative as lacking the regional dimension, representing the real opportunity to address
the issues of transparency and accountability of regional administrations, and opportunity to empower
civil society at the regional level.
(c) leaving the introduction of the ICT solutions to the Government and nrivate sector. This approach
leaves out public participation in development public policies, priorities and services. In Ukraine, the
level of public participation in governance is very low, as well as public awareness and knowledge of
how to expand civil society's role in this regard. Therefore, it is very unlikely that civil society needs will
be considered during the systems design and implementation, if no real leverage is involved. The risk that
the process of automation of the Government may lead to an even higher level of bureaucracy if proper
measures for transparency and accountability are not in place. The issue of compatibility of new
solutions with the EU standards is of greatest concern in view of historical tendency to use
nationally-based standards for exaggerated concerns for "security", which is still prevalent at the state
bodies. Private sector involvement in development of e-dialogue solutions is limited, because private
sector's commercial interests are of prime importance.
(d) sectoral approach. The Project team has closely learned lessons from the similar initiatives
undertaken in other countries. Lessons learned from the successful projects as well as recommendations
of the OECD, ITU and other globally-involved organizations indicate that precondition for successful
electronic development requires close coordination and synchronous work in, at least, the following
areas: (i) establishment of appropriate legal framework conducive to private investments; (ii) sufficient
public-private dialogue on development issues; and (iii) availability of public access through community
based models (telecenters, information centers, or other similar facilities). Thus, cross-sectoral approach
is more preferable as a support to reforms only in the ICT sector will not address all the issues, which are
critical for e-development.
(e) maintaining status quo. This would mean no institutional strengthening and policy development that
are to open doors to establishing new types of public-private partnership enabled by ICT; and no
enhancement in business environment and quality of governmental services provided. It is very unlikely
that any Government programs to date, which so far have been designed and almost failed because of
lack of appropriate financial and institutional capacities, can lead to the citizen-focused Government. Yet
the demand on such enhancement is increasing, within the society, business and Government itself.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
-                          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -deist Suporemson-~-
i~~~~~~~~~~~~pd
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Business Environment             EDAL I                           S            S
Business Environment             EDAL I                           s             s
Social Development               Social Investment Fund           S            S
Public Management                State Tax Service
- 12 -



Modernization (under
preparation)
Other development agencies
infoDev                          Ukraine Development Gateway
UNDP                             Innovations Springboard
UNDP                             Technological Information
Exchange
CIDA                             People's Voice Program
USAID                             Local Government
Development
USAID                            BIZPRO
CIDA                              Global Development Learning
Network
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from other countries reflected in the Project design
The design of this Project takes into account key lessons learned from the international experience, other
Bank projects and initiatives. Key lessons from international experience include: (a) broad participatory
cross-sectoral approach along with the champions presence within the Government produces significant
positive results and benefits; (b) commitment on the part of the Government to re-engineer their
processes to deliver transparent services to the citizens and businesses is essential; (c) development of a
legal framework compatible to the EU directives and conducive to private sector investments in the IT
sector ensures the sustainable economic growth.
Particularly, the Slovenia Govermnent "Strategy of e-Commerce in Public Administration of the
Republic of Slovenia for the Period from 2001 until 2004" was designed in collaboration with external
professionals and broad participation of the private sector and civil society. It is to serve as a basis for all
efforts, projects, activities and tasks within the transition of public administration into an information
society. The unified state E-Government portal at http://e-gov.gov.si/e-uprava/english/index.jsp has been
launched to provide Slovenian citizens and foreigners with information and services in electronic form
on official matters. The Slovenian Strategy took into consideration the best EU practices to make
e-solutions compatible, and at the same time it includes all the limitations and distinctions of public
administration of the Republic of Slovenia.
Another example of successful efforts made from the Government side is the Estonian Cabinet of
Ministers Session Infosystem(http:/www.riik.ee/valitsus/viis/viisengl.html). The project has automated
the preparation processes and proceedings of the Estonian Government Cabinet meetings. The final
objective is to prepare all materials digitally and thus to reduce coping costs and delivery time. The
system also permits on-line discussions with specialists not participating in these meetings.
The project of Russia's Obninsk City Administration Web-site (http://www.obninsk.ru/ndex en.html) is
an effort of the regional administration to use an Internet-driven approach to strengthen public-private
partnership and to increase the transparency of the local authorities' activity, including some elements of
e-procurement.
The World Bank Development Gateway (http.//www.developmentgateway.org() and many
country-specific gateways supported under this initiative provide notable examples and demonstrations
of the benefits of ICT applicability. Development Gateway provides links to ideas and good practice,
information about development activities and trends, funding, and commercial opportunities. Gateway
-13-



serves the needs of a broad array of stakeholders, including the public sector, the donor community, civil
society, and the private sector, which are playing vital roles in Development Gateway governance,
editorial management, and content development.
The World Bank InfoDev facility finances 32 Gateway projects in different countries that set up a good
foundation for the enhancement of the e-development ideas based on country-specific demands. The
Development Gateway idea provides a good background for future expansion in e-development areas.
The lessons learned from the Ukraine E-Readiness and E-Needs studies, financed through the Ukraine
Development Gateway Project, were taken into consideration while designing the Project (Please see
Annex 8).
Lessons from the previous Bank operations in Ukraine
The previous projects show that the close collaboration between the Bank and Borrower is prerequisite of
successful project implementation. In particular:
o   Strong Borrower's ownership over the project is a key to its successful implementation;
o   Training of the beneficiary agencies staff is crucial for the project sustainability in the future;
o   Involvement of the representatives of civil society and private sector in the project design
improves the political and social support to the project;
o   An experienced Project Implementation Unit reduces overhead costs of project implementation;
o   A strong Bank team located in the country is of key importance for the adequate response to the
client needs;
o   A realistic approach to the project objectives and time frames.
4. Ilndications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Ukraine has demonstrated a strong commitment to the project objectives. It has
developed the Ukraine E-Development Project Concept and has asked the World Bank to support its
activities. This concept is seen as a catalyst in creating an environment conducive to a broader
dissemination of Internet technologies, building a relevant infrastructure, and will serve as a basis for
raising donor funds and subsequent development of Internet technologies in Ukraine. It will also
facilitate Ukraine's integration into a more computerized global economy; and will create the image of
Ukraine as a full-fledged participant of the global electronic community (Please see Annex 8).
The objectives and action plans of the Law of Ukraine on National Informatization Program also show
strong consonance with the proposed Project. (Please see the detailed description of these acts in the
Section B.2)
Since 2001 the representatives of the Government of Ukraine have actively started to participate in
international workshops and trainings dedicated to e-development issues. Recently the representatives of
Government of Ukraine met the authors of the e-Russia Program to discuss problems and challenges
Russia met during the Program design and participated in April 29, 2002 meeting of Regional ICT
Experts in Geneva. In March 2003 the Ukraine's delegation actively participated in the Second
Knowledge Economy Forum in Helsinki, where they have discussed issues of practical introduction of
the national e-strategies.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The experience with successful introduction of e-development elements in more developed countries can
provide a powerful demonstration effect for the Ukrainian citizens. The Bank will provide financial and
knowledge support and will engage the Government of Ukraine in coherent, effective, broad-based
approach to develop and introduce the appropriate practice and solutions for enhancing public-private
- 14-



partnership in Ukraine. The Bank team will supervise the Project implementation and will ensure timely
responses to the Borrower's requests. The Project will have synergy with the Bank's on-going and
planned operations. In particular, lessons learned from the previous projects and designing new activities
will impact the Project. The project strengthens and expands the reforms supported by the Bank's lending
operations for private sector development and public sector efficiency (Private Sector Development and
Programmatic Adjustrnent Loan). Lastly, the Bank will use an experience gained from the similar
projects in other countries.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The Project is not amenable to a cost-benefit analysis, it rather offers substantial socioeconomic value
and helps the government to use new technologies in providing the means to ensure greater transparency
and accountability, improved interaction with constituents, better consultation practices and enhancement
in business environment. The rate of socioeconomic growth in the country depends mainly on the quality
of fulfilling certain responsibilities by a public servant, and a citizen. This process becomes easier,
effective and more transparent when technology is used, and:
* public services are offered on-line;
* details of citizen obligations and rights are readily available;
* citizen feedback on quality of public services is provided;
* legislation is published and circulated.
Thus, the Project is supposed to make the government agencies' work more effective, bring about
changes in the Government workflow, eliminate or transfer of excessive jobs, and decrease overall
administrative expenses. In addition, it will lead to greater accountability of governmental actions
through the greater public participation. The overall economic benefits of proposed Project will be
derived from: (i) lowering information costs (ii) lowering transaction costs (iii) improvement of control,
workflow and accountability of governmental agencies; (iv) increased competition in public
procurement, and (v) increased participation of civil society in public administration.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Given the small size and catalytic nature of the project, an economic rate of return calculation for this
project is inappropriate. However, the low cost of the project and impacts are expected to bring
considerable economic benefits, which could be measured in long term: (i) increased access, cost
efficiency, and transparency of the public sector; (ii) increased number of on-line transactions and
reducing of transaction costs; (iii) increased share of the GDP generated by the private sector, (iv)
enhancement in business environment and quality of governmental services, (v) greater involvement of
civil society in the governance process.
Fiscal Impact:
The Project would catalyze the enhancement of public administration and strengthen public-private
relations through the use of ICT applications and create favorable environment for e-business
development. It is expected to have a substantial positive long termn fiscal impact. The main sources of
additional revenues for the Government of Ukraine come from: (i) reducing administrative costs and
obtaining better pricing and service from suppliers in the process of public procurement; (ii) decrease in
- 15 -



transaction costs comparatively to over-the-counter transactions; (iii) increase in the volume of on-line
business transactions; (iv) improving the quality and effectiveness of public administration through
strengthening public-private relations. These fiscal benefits should be as much substantial as many
govemrnental bodies would implement innovations and as the Government of Ukraine would be able to
adopt clear goals, expectations, resources, and monitoring mechanisms.
3. Technical:
In Ukraine, the process of implementation of the ICT solutions into the private sector and public
administration has started some time ago and proved its efficiency (e.g. NBU electronic payment system,
Railway electronic ticket system). The Project's effort to speed up essential e-development processes
through information technology is fully feasible, although continued substantial input from the
international consultants, as well as input from the local counterparts will be required. The Project will
adapt e-development solutions that have proven to work in the FSU/transitional enviromnent. Selection
of the models will be made using the following criteria: a) reliability and efficiency; b) compatibility and
adjustability to local conditions; c) maintainability and possibility for update; d) affordability and
replicability of the pilots.
4. Institutional:
The monitoring and evaluation of the Project will be conducted by an experienced PIU staff, fully
familiar with the Bank requirements on procurement and financial management. The Project will try to
expand the PIU capacity to manage follow-on development projects. E-Development NGOs and ICT
professional associations will serve as an intermediary between the Government, private sector and civil
society. The project will build on the Country Procurement Assessment and evaluate the institutional
capacity and arrangements for public e-procurement. The pilot will document the effectiveness of these
institutions, explore the relevance and the sustainability of existing institutions and assess training needs.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project Implementation Unit was established by the Decree of MOEEEI #81 dated March 22, 2002.
Active support from the state agencies is also a key prerequisite of the successful project implementation.
4.2 Project management:
Project Management will be carried out on day-by-day basis by a PIU. MOEIEI and the Ministry of
Finance will provide necessary guidelines and supervise the PIU activity.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Ukraine Country Procurement Assessment was conducted in November 2000 and the report (CPAR)
was finalized in November 2001. CPAR has identified the following risks.
Legislation, which regulates procurement system in Ukraine, has a number of gaps and needs certain
improvement and clarification. Similarly, the public procurement system of Ukraine itself also requires
changes and clarifications. The Bank's team assesses the procurement risk rating for the country
procurement system as "high". To mitigate the risks the Action Plan aimed at improvement of regulatory
framework, at institutional development of the country procurement system, at increasing the level of
professional training and at introduction of information technologies in public procurement, was adopted
by the Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A review of the Project financial management arrangement has been completed in April 2003. A PIU,
operationally subordinated to the MOEIEI and reporting to the Ministry of Finance on financial issues,
will be the implementing agency of the project. Both ministries will provide an overall control over the
project. Personnel has been selected from the previous project and consist of staff experienced in
- 16 -



implementing World Bank-financed operations.
The assessment of the financial management arrangements for the project have concluded that
the E-Development Project currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The proposed Project opens doors and builds civil society capacity by empowering people, who have
never participated in the governance process, with tools to deliver their voice to authorities. One of the
central goals of the Project is to strengthen public-private partnership by facilitating active interaction
and communication between public authorities, civil society, and the private sector. The proposed Project
creates an ICT-driven framework that increases opportunities for vulnerable groups to participate in the
governance process. The Project would increase on-line capacity of the vulnerable groups to address their
needs and priorities, including gender issues. A wider introduction of ICT would encourage a dialogue
among policy makers and NGOs about the best practices for incorporation of these groups' concerns in
the Government projects and programs. ICT-enabled exchange of experience, knowledge sharing and
access to the global market information would open new opportunities and links for networking.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Project uses the participatory approach to all its stages. From the very early stage the representatives
of the private sector and civil society, as well as donors provide comments, suggestions and
reconmmendations to improve the Project. The dialogue is conducted through workshops, seminars,
conferences, and through the Ukraine E-Development web-portal.
A special Inter-Agency Working Group is created to provide clear guidelines and a policy dialogue to
ensure successful implementation of the Project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Project identification and preparation stages included broad consultations with different NGOs and
-17-



private sector representatives to crystalize objective of the future Project. The Public-Private E-Dialogue
component strengthens the role of civil society with its interaction with authorities by providing various
on-line tools. During the Project implementation E-Development NGOs and ICT professional
associations will serve as an intermediary between the Government, private sector and civil society.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project Inter-Agency Working Group will analyze and make all necessary actions to introduce the
recommnendations of E-Development NGOs and ICT professional associations. One of the main tasks of
this Group would be to monitor whether the Project achieves its social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Through various seminars, surveys and feedback from the target groups the proposed Project will
monitor whether the share of citizens and NGOs using ICT as a mean of participation in the governance
process is increased, and whether the Government supports a public-private dialogue. In particular, the
Project will measure this increase through the following indicators:
o   Increase in the number of citizens and NGOs using ICT as an additional mean to participate in the
govemance process;
o Improved public access to on-line govermmental information together with an increased scope of
information from the public authorities;
o   New on-line tools for public interaction with authorities are utilized by public in their dialogue with
the public authorities;
a   National and regional development web-sites are operational and are being maintained;
o   Regional Information Centers are staffed, equipped and operational.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
V. W'+     > J            S+--F a > S~>;fl Lt t ;! r ,                                   , - -.  rigered,
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          U Yes (U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes (9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 436)                                    ( Yes (U No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes (9 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 (9 Yes (9 No
llndigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 ( Yes U No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        (9 Yes ( No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             (9 Yes ( No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes (U No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       (9 Yes ( No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
- 18-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is seizing the moment when increased demand from the private sector and civil society
coincides with the presence of willingness within the Government of Ukraine to support and promote the
Project. The Project exhibits a number of important characteristics that ensure its sustainability.
1. The Project uses lessons learned not only from the previous Bank projects but also lessons from the
successful efforts made in the European transitional economies. These lessons show that the
governments have the capacity to maintain and develop the E-Government solutions based on the
world best practice.
2. A strong commitment of the Government of Ukraine to develop and introduce modem E-Government
solutions is demonstrated by the allocation of additional funds for the Project.
3. To ensure the implementation and proper utilization of the developed models the Project envisages
intensive training of the civil servants at the national and regional levels.
4. Participating in the Project design representatives of the private sector an civil society have
articulated clear demand and support to the Project outputs. Ukraine E-Development Association has
already made considerable efforts to advocate market-oriented e-business regulations and to
consolidate the civil society voice for better government services provision. Such type of NGOs will
play a vital role in the sustainability of the Project outputs.
5. The Project envisages replication of the models created at the national and regional levels. All
replicated models will be self-sustainable as they will operate beyond the Project pilots.
6. Broad public information campaigns, disseminating information on success stories and having strong
demonstration effect through disseminating results of successful implementation of the developed
models would increase the likelihood of their wider use and therefore ensure their greater
sustainability.
7. Increased capacity of the PIU would be used for other development projects.
8. Evaluating assessments would lay solid background for making decision of the expansion of
e-development approach to the future projects.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
'     .=ik :    :'-Risk i  _ig __TRisMtg.tl><.sk4ure ngt --X                        ...................
From Outputs to Objective
Government has revised its strategy       M         Collaborate closely with Government officials
aimed at improving efficiency of public            to help them to understand the need for
services.                                           enhancing efficiency in order to be competitive
and create positive image internally and
externally.
E-Business regulatory environment has     M         Increase support from the private sector and
been revised and has become less                   NGOs working in this area to promote and to
friendly.                                           advocate adoption of E-Business regulations
compatible with the best practice.
Government has changed its attitude to    S         Conduct wide on-line and off-line public
continuing a dialogue with civil society           awareness campaigns to facilitate civil society



and involving it in the governance                 participation in the govemance process.
process.
Implementing agency capacity and          M        Ensure close collaboration between PIUJ, state
Project findings have not been utilized            agencies and donor community including
for other development projects.                    regular updates on the pace of the Project and
wide dissemination of the Project results.
From Components to Outputs
Government has rejected to use            M        Collaborate with Government of Ukraine to
developed E-Government solutions.                  educate and ensure policy support to use
modern ICT solutions, which increase
Government efficiency and competitiveness.
Obtain an early commitment from the
Ministries where pilots are to be implemented.
Developed E-Business regulations have     M        Work with the Parliament, Government,
not been introduced.                               Ukrainian NGOs, private sector and donor
organizations to consolidate efforts in pushing
E-Business regulations through.
Government and civil society have failed  S        Conduct broad stakeholders' consultations and
to use efficiently on-line tools to conduct        workshops that show advantages of developed
a public-private dialogue.                         on-line tools as an additional vehicle for
public-private dialogue.
Project implementation arrangements to    M        Hire the PIU staff with the solid experience in
use experienced PIU staff and                      project management. Set up Inter-Agency
independent evaluators have been                   Working Group to ensure regular
changed.                                           exchange of information and stakeholders'
ownership. Ensure that agreed M&E
arrangements are used throughout the Project.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Project activity on the whole will lead neither to social instability nor infringement of civil rights.
The Project does not contain resettlement proposals. On the contrary, it would empower society with the
best practice tools and opportunities for its dialogue with authorities. However, some social risks may
emerge. The worst-case scenario for the Project could be: a) fragmented civil society fails to adopt
developed ICT solutions and remains at the periphery of a dialogue with public authorities; b) state
authorities reject the introduction of new technologies that increase possibilities for civil society to
participate actively in the governance process; and c) public authorities slow down expansion of
developed solutions once they understand full consequences of increased transparency brought by new
technologies.
-20-



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. Legal Opinion from the Borrower is required for the Loan effectiveness.
2. Appointment of the Project Financial Manager to the PIU under the terms of reference and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Neeotiations
1. The Operations Manual is finalized and adopted by the MOEIEI in accordance with the Appraisal
mission recommendations. It specifies the operational, financial, disbursement, reporting, monitoring
arrangements. It should specifically include: (i) design of the reporting requirements (draft FMR
template and draft financial statements); (ii) agreed staffing structure; and (iii) description of
procedures for separation of the accounting functions between MOEIEI and PIU, including
responsibility over the register of fixed assets.
2. Updated Project Implementation Plan.
3. Letter from the Ministry of Finance, which specify the terms of the Loan and sources for counterpart
funding.
4. Inter-Agency Working Group is established.
Conditions for the Board
1. Borrower's approval of the negotiated legal documents.
2. Signed letter of Sector Policy, which requests the bank to support the Government E-Development
program.
3. Certification of the Project financial management system.
4. Development of the financial plan on the base of procurement and budgeted expenses.
5. Assigning an appropriate financial management staff with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank in
the Ministry of Economy to carry out necessary accounting functions till the appointment of the PIU
permanent financial manager, and thereafter, retain such staff for a period of up to two months to
ensure a smooth transition of the accounting responsibilities to the PIU permanent Financial
Manager.
Specific Loan Covenants
I. not later than October 31, 2005, submit for the consideration of the Verkhovna Rada (Parliament) the
proposed legislative framework for on-line transactions, as such framework has been identified in
agreement with the Bank under the E-Business Environment component of the Project as necessary
to legalize on-line business transactions in the Borrower's territory and thereby complement and
ensure the achievement of the objectives of the Project;
2. not later than June 30, 2006, take all action required to amend and/or adopt the regulatory and
administrative acts necessary for the proper implementation of the legislative framework referred to
in the preceding paragraph (a) so as to enable on-line business transactions in the Borrower's
territory in a manner consistent with the objectives of the Project.
3. prepare, under termns of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about
March 1, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities on the
-21 -



progress achieved in the canrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
4. review with the Bank, by May 1, 2005, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report
referred to in the previous paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
M-. [Readiness for OmpIGmentatlion
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
D. Compglance with B8ank Poclcies
0  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Andrei Mikhnev                   Khaled F. Sherif                  Luca Barbone
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Counbry Director
-22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
.W.:~    ^   :,   .> 7>Kegt&e   ance;       Data Collection Strategy
- pf..-, JI ndic-at rs.                          - -  --- -    .      - Critical AMisuimptions'.
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To attain sustainable economic Increased efficiency and  Bank Country Reports   The sustainable economic
growth                    transparency of the Public                            growth is continued
Sector
Share of GDP generated by  Other Development
the Pnvate Sector is increased Institutions Reports
Greater involvement of the  Country Financial
Civil Society in the       Accountability Assessment
govemnance process
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To enhance efficiency of the  Twenty per cent reduction of  Bank and independent studies Continued Government
Govermnent's decision-making time and admunistrative costs  Supervision mrssion reports  reform-oriented policy and
process for public        in pilot state agencies, along                        strategy
procurement and            with improved efficiency in  Project reports         Improved environment for
documentation flow, foster  the government procurement  Implementation completion  investments and business
private sector development  and documentation flow   report                     devestment
and strengthen civil society in systems, 12 months after the  report            development
Ukraine through introduction  Project completion;                               Improved public-pnvate
of innovative models of         .                                               partnership
.             ~~~~Doubling the average number
Information and            of bidders per e-tender
Comnmunication Technologies comparing with previous
(ICT) solutions.          paper-based practice, 12
months after the Project
completion;
Forty per cent increase in the
volume of on-line business
transactions, along with an
increasing investment flow
into the IT sector, 12 months
after the Project completion;
Increase in the number of
citizens and NGOs using ICT
as an additional mean to
participate in the governance
process upon the Project
completion;
Improved public access to
on-line governmental
infonnation together with the
scope of information from the
government bodies is
increased dunng the Project
implementation;
- 23 -



New projects in the
E-Development area are
started.
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Modem replicable        1. I Models of public     Supervision mission reports  The Govemment strategy on
e-procurement and          e-procurement and         Implementation Completion  improving public services
e-documentation flow models e-documentation flow systems R ep taefficiency is sustained
within the Govenmment are  are implemented and       Report
developed and introduced   operational in the pilot state  Project Components reports
agencies;
1.2 Developed models are
replicated at five state
agencies within two years of
the Project completion;
1.3 Necessary legal and
regulatory amendments are
made so that all
e-documentation filings and
processes are recognized as
valid;
1.4 Institutional and/or
regulatory changes necessary
for smooth introduction of the
developed models are made;
1.5 At least 50 govermmental
employees staff are trained in
policies, procedures,
operations and functions of the
developed models.
2. Market-oriented regulatory  2.1 Developed package of the                     No back-tracking changes in
framework that legalize    legislative, regulatory, and                         the e-business regulatory
on-line business transactions  normative acts is introduced;                    environment
are developed             2.2 Introduced legal and
regulatory changes comply
with the relevant EU
directives.
3. On-line tools facilitating a  3.1 Developed on-line tools                    Continuing dialogue between
dialogue between public   for public interaction with                           civil society and the public
authorities and civil society  authorities are utilized by                      authorities
are launched at the national  public in their dialogue with
and regional levels       the public authorities;
-24-



3.2 National web-site and two
regional web-sites for on-line
dialogue are operational and
are being maintained;
3.3 Pilot Regional Information
Centers are staffed, equipped
and operational.
4. The Project was         4.1 The PIU with qualified                           Implementing agency capacity
successfully administered and  personnel successfully                           and Project assessments made
monitored by the capable  implemented and admunistered                          are utilized for other
implementing agency with  the Project;                                          development projects
thoroughly evaluation of the  4 2
developed models and their  .Tedvlpdmdl r
develope model andthei assessed and recommendations
feasibility for replication  for replication are issued.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. E-Government           US$ 2.55 million           Supervision mission reports  The Govermment is committed
Financial Monitoring Reports to maintain developed
E-Government solutions
Disbursement reports
Audit reports
Project Components reports
2. E-Business Environment  US$ 0.80 million                                     E-business regulations are
introduced
3. Public-Private E-Dialogue  US$ 2 10 million                                  The developed on-line tools
are accessible and used by
civil society in its dialogue
with public authorities
4. Administration and      US$ 0.45 million                                     Strong collaboration between
Monitoring                                                                     involved state agencies,
regional administrations, PIU
and the Bank
- 25 -



-26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.55 million
E-Government
The E-Government component consists of two subcomponents that develop and introduce: a) a working
model for public electronic procurement, and b) a working model of electronic documentation flow.
The E-Procurement subcomponent will design and launch the most appropriate solution to digitize public
procurement for National Competitive Bidding of goods, works and services. It will include a legal
analysis of the government procurement legal framework and propose amendments to facilitate the
introduction of the Internet-based transactions in the government procurement cycle. Implementation of
this sub-component will evolve in phases and may involve developing customized software or adapting
software already in use in other countries. This sub-component will be developed at the State
Procurement Division of the MOEIEI and piloted in one of the state agencies with the larger volume of
procurement transactions. This model will be limited by the thresholds for national competitive tenders
as defined by the Law of Ukraine on Procurement of Goods, Works and Services at the Expense of the
State Funds:
for goods - 10,000-200,000 euro;
for services - 10,000-300,000 euro; and
for works - 40,000-4,000,000 euro.
Divisions of other Ministries will be used as control groups to compare efficiency of the developed
model.
The E-Documentation subcomponent will develop a model of documentation flow, which is the most
appropriate for increasing efficiency of a decision-making process for issuing and monitoring the
Resolutions and Decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. It will be piloted within the MOEIEI, Ministry of
Finance and Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers. Later on, the key linkages to other ministries would
be detailed, such as with the Ministry of Justice. Based on these analyses the final testing would be
extended -- as appropriate - towards the ministries that have the closest and most critical links to the
work / document flow of the above mentioned ministries. Ukraine's regulations require full agreement
between the Ministries involved prior to issuing a Resolution or Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. They
also require follow-up coordination to control implementation of issued regulations. The pilot will aim at
avoiding unnecessary paper work for the preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation, supervision,
and completion phases of the governmental decisions. Implementation of this subcomponent will include
introduction of a workflow information system that allows secure processing and exchange of
e-documents between and within the participating agencies. Other departments will be selected for a
comparison analysis of the model's efficiency.
The following activities are envisaged for both subcomponents: (a) analysis of the current situation and
identification of the priorities within these areas; (b) evaluation of different options to implement the
desired solutions; (c) design and development of the selected solutions; (d) introduction of the developed
models; (e) learning the initial lessons and solicitation of feedback from target groups; (f) fine-tuning of
the final version; (g) evaluation of prospects for replication of models; (h) comparative analysis of the
efficiency of the developed models using control groups; (i) assessment of institutional and regulatory
changes necessary to maximize efficiency of the developed models; (j) assessment and strengthening of
the Government capacity to operate the developed models and provision of training.
-27 -



The main results expected:
o   the developed models of public electronic procurement and electronic document flow are
operational under the current environment;
o   the developed models are easily replicated to other state agencies, which use state funds for
public procurement;
o   the administrative costs are reduced due to the models introduction;
a   institutional and/or regulatory changes necessary for smooth introduction of the solutions are
developed;
o   the Government personnel is trained to operate these developed models.
Project Component 2 - US$0.80 million
E-Business Environment
The creation of basic regulatory framework in conformity with EU standards is essential to foster private
sector development and attract investments in the e-business area. The establishment of a favorable legal
environment is especially important for Ukraine, given that its legal system is based on statute law in
contrast to countries with common law. That means that a lack of basic laws and regulations related to
ICT could block the introduction and development of on-line business. However, the Government of
Ukraine has already undertaken initial steps in this area such as the system of electronic inter-bank
payments that was legalized by regulations of the National Bank of Ukraine. Such activities are
fragmented and the lack of expertise and knowledge of best practices prevents carrying them through at
the national level.
This component will draft new regulations and amendments to the existing ones aimed at enabling
on-line transactions and developing a framework for their introduction.
Legitimate on-line transactions will reduce costs and increase efficiency of operations in the public and
private sectors. The efficiency level will be benchmarked with the relevant best practices. This
component would also complement and support the other components of the proposed Project by
facilitating the stable and favorable legal environment for the successful implementation of the proposed
pilots.
The scope of work under this component includes: (a) a detailed analysis of the current legislation; (b)
participatory discussions with the private sector and the Government; (c) identification and reporting
main bottlenecks in the current legislation that hamper conducting on-line transactions; (d) development
and introduction - or submission to the Parliament - of legal and regulatory acts enabling on-line
transactions; (e) provision of benchmarking data on the market share of on-line business in developed
countries.
The main results expected:
o   the missing parts and bottlenecks in Ukrainian legislation that hamper possibilities for on-line
transactions identified;
o   local stakeholders supported to push the developed regulatory solutions through;
o   the adopted legislative and normative acts facilitated increase of on-line transactions
benchmarked to developed countries.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.10 million
PubRic-Private E-Dialogue
This component is aimed at strengthening the role and involvement of private sector and civil society in
the governance process. The pilot would develop and implement on-line tools for dialogue between state
agencies and representatives of private sector and civil society to enhance public management
- 28 -



transparency and accountability.
The pilot will be conducted at the national and regional levels. At the national level the pilot would
develop tools and models for on-line dialogue between the central state agencies and representatives of
private sector and civil society presented by the NGOs. For these purposes a national web portal, with a
set of special features and tools, will be developed. It will include an advice-giving system, an inquiries
collection database, discussion forums, on-line consultations and surveys, opinion polls, and knowledge
sharing tools. Target groups will be invited to actively participate in the development of these tools. The
national web portal would be organized around the needs of different groups of stakeholders, rather than
around administrative boundaries. In addition, information about key govemment services would be
incorporated into this portal, including procedural information and in some cases, necessary forms. As a
possible outcome after the completion of the Project, this will eventually enable transactional services
that can be totally fumished online, once the appropriate technological and regulatory capacities are in
place.
At the regional level, a model for on-line dialogue between the citizens and regional administrations
would be developed and launched in one oblast and one city. The selection of the oblast and city will be
based on openness and proven reform-oriented approach of its administration, and its commitment to
contribute to the Project and to utilize the developed model afterwards. The Project will support the
creation and maintenance of the Oblast and City Administrations web-sites and Regional Information
Centers (RICs), which will provide information about the Administrations planned and completed
activities, and allow people to communicate with the officials. The web sites and the RICs will enable
access to information: on the administrations planned and completed activities, public services provided
by the regional authorities, minutes of regional council meetings, budget planning and execution,
normative acts that impact private sector and civil society development, forums, databases, and other
services. The conferences, videoconferences, forums, seminars and workshops will also serve as tools for
establishing participatory knowledge sharing. The RICs will also function as an access center to the
govermnent services and will be housed in an easily accessible location with extended operating hours.
Public terminals will allow citizens direct access to the oblast and city web sites and the national
Government portals. Specially trained personnel of the RICs will support visitors in obtaining a number
of key government services (through the tools developed with the project) and participation in public
consultations.
This component will include: (a) assessment of needs of the target groups in on-line information and
services; (b) assessment of the existing capacities and needs for their development, in particular,
assessment of the extent of the digital divide in the regions; (c) development and testing the approaches
and models of on-line tools for public-private dialogue; (d) establishing the RICs and developing their
business models; (e) provision of training sessions, seminars, and workshops to ensure broad
participation and public awareness; (f) solicitation of feedback, comments and recommendations for
further fine-tuning; (g) summarizing and publicizing lessons learned.
The Ukraine E-Development web portal built under the World Bank Development Gateway Project and
capacities created within the Global Distance Learning Network Project could serve as possible entry
points for this activity.
The main results expected:
*   improved public access to basic information on the activity and on the decision-making process
of the national and regional public administrations;
*   improved capacity of the target groups to address development issues by introduction of
developed on-line tools;
*   increased participation of civil society in the govemance process.
- 29 -



Project Component 4 - US$0.45 million
Administration and Monitoring
The Project will be administered by the PIU specially set up within the MOEIEI. This Component is
aimed at i) ensuring efficient Project management using the capable PIU, and ii) ensuring project
sustainability and maximizing the demonstration effect of the Project by conducting thorough monitoring
and evaluating activity.
In addition to the PIU's Project administration activity, coordinating and monitoring functions will also
be performed by a Inter-Agency Working Group established by the Government of Ukraine. This
governing body is focused on initiating inter-ministry policy and strategy dialogues as well as providing
guidelines for the Project stakeholders. Within this component the following activities are envisaged: (a)
drafting of relevant project documents and securing their approval from the Government and the Bank;
(b) preparation and organization of tenders for consultants' services and goods envisaged by the Project;
(c) preparation of documentation for disbursements of the Loan proceeds; (d) monitoring the consultants'
work and providing recommendations to improve their performance; (e) drafting of the Project
Management Reports and submitting them to the Government and the Bank; (f) engagement of different
stakeholders to ensure participatory approach; (g) introduction of the solid financial management system
based on GAAP and satisfactory to the Bank; (h) annual auditing of the Loan proceeds; (i) independent
assessments of the developed models; (j) provision of recommendations on the future possible
dissemination of the developed models.
The main results expected:
o   improved capacity of the Borrower's PIU to manage, implement and successfully carry out the
Project;
o   an adequate demonstration effect is achieved;
o   the PIU established a monitoring and evaluation system that ensured successful Project
implementation;
o   all Project components reached their objectives using the indicators developed;
o   Project outcomes added value and contributed to follow up operations.
- 30 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ :--}          -~ -- -                V < ;      -   'ocal-'     Foreign      oTtal
.'  S,,_, r' Project Co,stIBy:Component  - -   US $mil-ion  US $million  'U. US $million..s
E-Governmnent                                            0.70          1.85         2.55
E-Business Environment                                   0.00         0.80          0.80
Public-Private E-Dialogue                                0.30          1.80         2.10
Administration and Monitoring                            0.25          0.20         0.45
Unallocated                                              0.00          0.05         0.05
Total Baseline Cost                                       1.25        4.70          5.95
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'             1.25         4.70         5.95
Front-end fee                    0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required              1.25         4.75         6.00
t --i ----vz> -- ----  -  i - --;9L-.-I . -  - -  Foreign -. Tot-  a
:.   -'@rr';  P       sByCatenoIu,r.         - ; .  ;.  U$m       U  $millior -.U  $milli on
Goods                                                      1.00          0.10         1.10
Consultant Services                                        0.20          4.55         4.75
Operating Costs                                            0.05          0.00         0.05
Unallocated                                                0.00          0.05         0.05
Total Project Costs      1.25          4.70         5.95
Front-end fee                   0.05          0.05
Total Financing Required      1.25         4.75          6.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 6 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 83.33% of
total project cost net of taxes
-31 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
UKRAIlNE: E-Development Project
E-Development Project benefits are not measurable in the monetary terms as the main development
objective of the proposed project is to enhance efficiency of the Government actions, foster private sector
development, and strengthen civil society in Ukraine through introduction of the innovative models of IC
solutions. Rather, the Project will have significant social effect through increased transparency of the
Government operations, better access to public services, new opportunities for the entrepreneurship
initiatives, and improved public-private partnership. In particular, the networking potential offered by the
ICT has the potential to transform the structures and operation of the government. The Project takes as its
starting point that modem e-government technologies has the potential to enable adoption of good
governance practices. To achieve the goal and to minimize the cost and risks of the Project the strategy of
pilot interventions has been chosen. The proposed Project objective cannot be reached by simple
information technology introduction, there is a need to study the legal aspects and carry out adaptation of
laws, procedures and introduce behavioral changes.
Summary of benefits and costs:
The support, provided under the Project, will serve as a catalyst to increase the effectiveness of the public
administration, create an environment sufficiently conducive for e-business development, attracting
significant capital investments and technology. The investments are expected to bring considerable, long
term economic benefits which could be measured in long term: (i) increased access, cost efficiency and
transparency of the public sector; (ii) increased number of on-line transactions and reducing of
transaction costs; (iii) increased share of GDP generated by the private sector, (iv) enhancement in
business environment and quality of govermmental services; and (v) greater involvement of civil society
in the governance process. The project would catalyze these benefits, rather than achieving them during
the Project implementation. A cost benefit analysis was therefore not undertaken.
E-Goverament Component. The public management in Ukraine is characterized as an inefficient and
red-tape system that has been hampering at the great extent the progress of private sector and civil
society development in Ukraine. Efficient models of public electronic procurement, electronic
documentation flow and on-line tools for public-private dialogue and their further replication will lead to
increased competition, decrease in the administrative expenses, better and more transparent public
procurement, greater accountability of governmental actions.
Studies have shown that the state in general saves up to 65% of costs with the introduction of electronic
services in comparison with the usual way of offering service at the counter ("e-Government: A cost
Model to Compare the Marginal Costs of Traditional DMV Transaction Delivery to an e-Govemment
Delivery System" A report by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA)
Electronic Government Working Group, August 2001).
E-Procurement subcomponent. Introduction of e-procurement pilot will result in improved
competitiveness that will lower costs of public contracts and create incentives for greater efficiency in
private sector suppliers of goods and services on public contracts. The cost reduction potential of the
ICT-driven e-procurement compared to paper driven derives from several econornic factors:
Table 1. Economic factors of e-procurement benefits.
Factor                   IHow                    Privvate Sector Comparative B8enchmarks
Lower        Dissemination of information on purchases  American Management Systems' Report
information  and contract awards on Internet is faster and  "The Case for Federal e-Procurement:
costs        cheaper than through paper or other media  Translating Private Sector Benefits to the
- 32 -



Supplier's access to business opportunities is Federal Governent"
only constrained by access to Internet*  Cisco's** e-Procurement solution in Ariba
Government's research for best offer can be  Inc. (started in 1997), reduced the cost of
done faster through Internet than through  processing a single purchase order from
done fasterthrou                       $130 to $9 within two years
traditional methods
Lower        Introduction of on-line transactions will lead  14% of cost reduction in private sector
transaction  to decrease in transaction cost       through reducing administrative costs and
ding                c     .    . .                  obtaining better pricing and service from
Research, ordering, bidding costs can often supir
be shared between the agencies         suppliers
Reducing administrative costs
Control      Electronic bidding will assure transparency  20% of cost reduction in private sector
improvement and availability of information and     through reducing any purchases made
consequently, better monitoring and control  outside of the approved supplier base,
over the public expenditures           channel or contract, known as contract
Electronic bidding will assure compliance  compliance
with public purchasing policies and laws
Increased    Increased number of businesses will be able  8% of cost reduction in private sector
competition  to participate in public procurement through  through negotiating lower prices, volume
Internet                               discounts, and discounts for electronic
Electronic bidding will result in more  ordering
dynamic price competition
The government's demand can be
aggregated, which will result in lager lots
and better unit prices
Note: The actual cost reductions can vary from agency to agency depending upon the type and volume of
roods and services purchased.
* In Ukraine the average price for dial-up Internet access dropped for 72% from 1999 to 2001. It is
assumed that the tendency will be retained, and access to Internet will be increasing. The rate of annual
growth of number of Internet users is 45-50% in Ukraine.
**"Oracle Delphi Business Solutions. Internet Procurement" published by Oracle declares saving up to
20% on purchases through the Oracle Internet Procurement Solution.
Mexico's three years experience of operating Compranet - the electronic system for Government
Procurement - demonstrates 20-25% of average savings in the cost. This data can be extrapolated to
Ukraine as the main Mexico's indicators such as (i) price of access to the Internet; (ii) volume of public
purchases per year; (iii) number of governmental purchasing agencies; and (iv) legal and regulatory
environment for e-procurement - are very close to those in Ukraine. As the Government of Ukraine
spends about 7,000 million dollars for purchases and public works per year, 20% would total in 1,400
million dollars of savings per a year, which amounts to 3,7% of the consolidated state budget of Ukraine.
Though benefits are obvious, the final success will depend upon the Government's ability to articulate
vision and goals for the broad e-procurement program (typically 5 years and more) with clear goals,
expectations, resources, monitoring mechanism.
- 33 -



In addition to promising fiscal benefits of the introduction of public e-procurement, the transparency
benefits are more immediate and far reaching in their impact. As a consequence and extension of
transparency, e-procurement can be a major contributor to the anti-corruption campaign. E-pcocurement
systems are considered anti-corruption instruments even at their early stages of implementation, when
they just systematically disclosure all public sector business opportunities and the resulting contract
awards.
Risk At the initial stage of e-procurement implementation the major risk is connected to the untimely,
incomplete, incorrect and non-comparable announcement of business opportunities, which will lead to
discrimination of the current project as well as of the future e-procurement programs of the Government,
regardless of the advantages and virtues of technologies standing behind it.
E-Documentation Flow subcomponent. The system of documentation flow provides for the gathering,
preparation and analysis of information, the preparation of documentation, and provides tools for
collaboration by various state institutions. It is possible to specify those tasks in infornation processing
so that unnecessary duplication of effort is avoided and public administration is rationalized. Many
benefits are intangible, taking the form of improvements in effectiveness and quality, but in purely fiscal
terms in the average 4% decrease of the relevant running costs were reported, as in the case with
introduction of the OSPREY system in the United Kingdom Government Departments.
Benefits expected on introduction of e-Documentation flow:
o   more productive electronic document creation and management;
o   proved electronic communications within and between governmental agencies, group working;
o   access to existing/future management information systems;
o   better organization and management of information, leading to improved access and availability,
more informed judgements, better decision making;
o   lower clerical overheads;
o   less time and resources needed to arrange meetings and other appointmnents.
E-Business Environment Component. The project will foster implementation of regulatory changes
necessary to eliminate regulatory obstacles that impede development of e-business in Ukraine and will
lead to legitimization of on-line transactions.
The benefits expected:
o   legal bases of e-commerce that are adjusted with technological possibilities as well as with the
EU standards and directives;
o   promotion of the development of infrastructure for on-line payment systems;
o   increase in the volume of on-line business transactions;
o   positive impact on all e-commerce related developments.
There is no trustworthy statistics on e-business for Ukraine. Some forecasts for 2003 of the dollar value
of transactions between U.S. businesses that are conducted electronically range from $634 billion to $2.8
trillion. This wide disparity is due to a combination of methodological and definitional differences.
Irrespective of the dollar amounts, the market researchers expect strong growth as companies seek to cut
costs and increase efficiency by streamlining their purchasing, sales, and other business processes.
Ukrainian companies will benefit from having possibility to integrate to world electronic markets.
According to a recent estimate by The Economist, over 750 networked marketplaces have been developed
worldwide. These markets now are not accessible for Ukrainian enterprises because of the current legal
and subsequent infrastructure constraints.
Public-Private E-Dialogue Component. Strengthening relations with citizens is a sound investment in
better policy-making and a core element of good governance. Equally important, it contributes to
- 34 -



building public trust in government, raising the quality of democracy and strengthening civic capacity.
All studies stress the role of citizens and the need for change in the traditional relationship between the
Government and various groups and individuals in order to achieve efficient policy integration of
economic and social goals. There is a very little impact if governments simply automate services without
evaluating effectiveness of the systems. Citizens need deeper understanding of importance of public
participation in the governance process, and at the same time must have an access to accurate and useful
information to effectively fulfill their participatory role.
The benefits expected:
*   increased capacity of the government to identify, evaluate and address processes and priorities in
need of greatest change;
* improved mechanism for timely and effective responses from the public at large to government
decisions and actions;
* improved public access to information on activities and decision-making processes of regional
administrations;
* increased capacity of the target groups to address development issues and priorities.
Main Assumptions:
The analysis is built on the basis of the following assumptions:
* The Government committed to maintain developed e-government solutions.
*   E-Business regulations are introduced and enforced.
*   The developed on-line tools are accessible and used by civil society in its dialogue with public
authorities.
*   Strong collaboration between involved state agencies, regional administrations, PIU and the Bank.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
This analysis uses the outcome and output indicators specified in Annex 1.
- 35 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
Years Ending
June 30
Year I     Year 2    Year 3    Year 6    Year 5     Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.9       2.6       2.2        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.1       0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         0.9        2.7       2.3        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              1.0        2.7       2.3       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  1.0        2.4       1.6        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.0        0.3       0.7        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.2       0.5       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.1       0.2       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers
Other
Total Project Financing     1.0       2.7       2.3        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 36 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
Procurement
General
Project procurement arrangements shall include the procurement of goods and consultants' services and
shall follow the latest editions of the Bank guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
and "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" accordingly.
Procurement under the Project shall be managed by the PIU established within the MOEIEI using the
relevant Bank standard procurement documentation and Operations Manual, developed by the PIU and
approved by the Bank. Procurement capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency was conducted
during Appraisal mission in May 2002. The results of the assessment are summarized in Table B1.
The preliminary procurement plan within the aggregated estimated costs and procurement methods is
provided in Table B2 of this Annex. The plan was updated after Negotiations in March 2003.
1. Procurement of Goods (US$ 1.1 mln)
Most goods consisting of hardware and software, minor office equipment and materials will be procured
by the Borrower using its own funds.
Goods required for Project implementation shall be financed by the Loan and procured in accordance
with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines).
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or more each. Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract
shall be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the
provisions of Section n of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto. Goods estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Shopping (IS)
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. The ECA
Regional sample format for shopping, available on the ECA Procurement web-site will be used.
Domestic preference may be applied and the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
2. Selection Procedures for Consultants' Services (US$ 4.75 mln)
Consultants' services required for Project implementation shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the
provisions of Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph I of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2 thereto.
Contracts will be packaged to include a combination of related skills and services, in order to make them
attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the number of contracts to be managed by the
PIU. The following methods of procurement will be used:
(i) Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for 6 consulting
services contracts up to an aggregate amount of US $4.40 million equivalent.
(ii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for auditing services up to an amount
- 37 -



of US $ 0.03 million equivalent in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of
the Consultant Guidelines.
(iii) Individual Consultants (QC). Services of individual consultants for independent
assessments of models developed and for the Project administration and monitoring, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $320,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
3. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in "Development Business" in May 2003 and
will be updated annually. For consultants' contracts above US $200,000 the Requests for Expression of
Interest will be advertised in "Development Business" (in the English language) and in major local
newspapers (in the national language).
4. Review by the IBank of Procurement lDecisions
Schedmling of ProcuremenL Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan. The PIU has drafted a Procurement Plan as part of the
Project Operations Manual. This plan will be updated every six (6) months during the execution of the
Project, and furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. Procurement of all goods and Selection of
all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan (as updated from
time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank.
Prior Review by the Bank. The Bank will require prior review for all QCBS and LCS contracts as well
as first two contracts for IC and all IC contracts above $50,000 per contract, provided however, that prior
review and approval by the Bank shall still apply to the terms of reference for all contracts. For
procurement of goods, the first two contracts for IS will be subject to prior review by the Bank of a report
on comparison and evaluation of quotations received and a copy of the specifications along with the draft
contract. All ICB procurement contracts will be subject to prior review in accordance with the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Post Review by the Bank. With respect to each contract that is not subject to prior review, the procedures
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
w n r Categorjy               ICB                              -    - - J  r -*;__
Enrpenditure C                               v,                 -      i.tEC..  T   otalCast
1. Works                          0.00           0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00            0.00         0.10         1.00       1.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0. 10 )    (0.00)      (0. 1 0)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00         4.75         0.00       4.75
(0.00)         (0.00)        (4.75)      (0.00)      (4.75)
4. Operating Costs                0.00            0.00         0.05         0.00       0.05
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.05)      (0.00)      (0.05)
-38 -



5. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00           0.05          0.00         0.05
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.05)        (0.00)      (0.05)
6. Unallocated                        0.00             0.00           0.05          0.00         0.05
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.05)        (0.00)      (0.05)
Total                               0.00            0.00           5.00           1.00        6.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (5.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)
"Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
RFP - Request for Proposals, ITB - Invitation to Bid, QCBS - Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, LCS -
Least-Cost Selection, IC - Individual Consultants, NS - National Shopping, NBF - Non-Bank Financed
- 39 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
SZiecdon Mi rhod               . 
ConsuKiant Sevvicer                                                  . , e-grn_
E;panditure Category  GCES   MS5    SFB     LCS      CQ    - Other -- N.B.F.- TotaliCost'
A. Firms              4.40    0.00    0.00   0.03     0.00    0.00    0.00    4.43
(4.40)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.03)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (4.43)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.32   0.00     0.32
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.32)  (0.00)   (0.32)
Total  4.40    0.00    0.00   0.03     0.00    0.32    0.00    4.75
_  (4.40)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.03)  (0.00)  (0.32)  (0.00)  (4.75)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-40-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
*  -.  V~..4  - r  -  -Cbntract              -  ---- -<            'n            t
: i.ua,i '_Value;-                           Co ntracts:Subjecto
-   Thresh old: -- '      Procoreim nt  -: --     ' Prior Revie'w
-'Expenditur -Cat gor (US$tfIusands)        -     -Method.
1. Works                        N/A                    N/A
2. Goods                       <100                     IS                   First two
>100                    ICB                     All
3. Services
Firms                           any                   QCBS                     All
any                    LCS                     All
Individuals                     >50                                            All
<50                                        First two, then
only TORs
4. Operating Costs                                      AP                Annual budgets
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: about US$ 4.5 mln (75
percent)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Such an assessment, however, is related to the high risk nature of the Ukrainian public procurement
system as a whole, to general shortcomings of the project management, to the underdevelopment, and to
the weakness of the private sector in the country.
Table B1 : Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Capacity Assessment:
Primary responsibility for the Project management would rest with the MOEIEI. The PIU established within
the MOEIEI would administer the Project on day-to-day basis. The MOEIEI appoints a Coordinator (at
present, the First Deputy State Secretary of MOEIEI), who monitors the project preparation and
implementation. An Inter-Agency Working Group, which is made up of government officials from Ministries
and other govemmental agencies will coordinate the work of the participating agencies and will assist, advise
and support preparation and implementation of the Project.
The Project Implementation Unit includes Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager/IT Specialist, and
Secretary/Office Manager as full-time positions. The positions of Procurement Specialist, Financial
Manager, and Legal Advisor are part-time.
The MOEIEI has completed a competitive selection of the PIU staff. The PIU specialists are experienced in
the implementation of the Bank financed projects. This staff have received extensive training in their
- 41 -



respective areas of expertise both in Ukraine and abroad.
Action Plan:
The following recommendations are made to mitigate the potential risks to the implementation of
procurement under the project: (i) one- or two-day procurement training should be delivered to the respective
staff of the PIU and MOEIEI during a Project Launch Workshop; (ii) adequate facilities including premises,
computer hardware and software, office equipment should be available to the PIU to better manage the
project and to comply with the Bank reporting requirements; (iii) proper electronic.database and hard copy
filing system should be established by the PIU; and (iv) the frequency of procurement supervision should be
every six months.
Table 8B2: Procurement Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
The Procurement Plan has been removed from the PAD in accordance with agreements reached at
Negotiations.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-42 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed according to the allocated amounts and percentages per category
of expenditure as stipulated in the SDP letter for Ukraine as of April 25, 2002.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Arountin  US$million-. Z.     ina.ncing P  centage v ;'
Goods                                      0.10              100% of foreign expenditure,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost)
80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultant services                        4.75           100% for foreign consulting firms and
individual consultants;
87% for local consulting firms;
92% for local individual consultants
Operating costs                            0.05             100% until December 31, 2004
80% until December 31, 2005
25% thereafter
Unallocated                                0.05
Total Project Costs                        4.95
Front-end fee         0.05
_Total__                                   5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures: (i) goods, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii)
services of individual consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (iii)
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Related documentation in support of SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank but will be retained by the
PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the
disbursement is made. This documentation will be available for review by the auditors and the Bank
staff. If ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts in
excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the SA, the Bank will have the right to
withhold further deposits from the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Borrower has (a)
refunded the amount involved; or (b) submitted evidence, to the Bank's satisfaction, of other eligible
expenditures that the Bank can use to off-set the ineligible amounts. The PIU will be required to maintain
all books and records for post-review by the Bank's supervision missions and for the auditors.
Special account:
A Special Account will be opened in a foreign commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and managed by
the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the Bank operational policies to ensure timely provision of
funds available to finance small expenditures.
During the early stage of the Project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to
-43 -



US$ 90,000. Later on, when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan would have reached the level of
US$ 1,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$ 300,000.
Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly and will be fully documented, including bank
statements and reconciliation statements, except for expenditures, which may be claimed on the basis of
SOEs. The Special Account will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the IBRD.
All incoming and outgoing documentation is subject to copying and registration by the PIU, where
disbursement documents are maintained and filed.
Financial Management
Country Financial Management Issmes
CFAA report for Ukraine has identified weak points in the system of public finance. Taking into account
that the project will be co-financed with the Government it is necessary to assure that these funds are (i)
included in the State Budget and (ii) are transferred to the project on time. It is also important that all the
assets purchased during project implementation be accounted and properly recorded in the financial
statements of Ministry of Economy and European Integration, and in project financial statements. Stock
taking of such assets and reconciliation of these items between project accounts and Ministry of
Economy and European Integration accounts should be executed by the auditors.
Strengths and Weaknesses
The review assessment of the project financial management arrangements has identified the following
strengths:
Strengths:
o   The project implementation (particularly FM arrangements) will be provided by a qualified staff that
has acquired good practical experience on the in other Bank-financed projects;
o   Financial transactions will be controlled by the two Ministries, including MOEIEI and Ministry of
Finance;
Weaknesses:
o   It has been decide by the government that the Project financial finance manager will be hired on a
part time basis due to the perception of low volume of operations on the project;
o   Automated accounting system is not in place yet, so a manual accounting will be provided used on a
transitory basis.
Implementing Entity
A Project Implementation Unit is created according to the order of the MOEIEI # 81 dated 22 March
2002. This PIU is responsible for the financial management of the Project and this obligation is to be
fulfilled in accordance with the above-mentioned order. The PIU financial management system has been
set up as a separate financial management system, not part of the financial management system of the
MOEIEI. PI1J will prepare financial reports on behalf of MOEIEI, complying with local requirements as
well as Bank requirements.. The MOEIEI of Ukraine and Ministry of Finance of Ukraine will exercise
control over all disbursements and expenditures made by the PIU.
Financial management and internal organization controls were assessed in order to evaluate the presence
of competent employees, their educational and experience levels, existence of written standards and
procedures including clear responsibilities and levels of authority, audit arrangement and financial
management and reporting system. These arrangements proved to be satisfactory.
-44 -



Fundsflow
The financial flows will comprise mainly of: (a) direct payments of loans from Project loan account; (b)
payments from the Special Account according to the procedures and requirements of the Bank, which
will be opened with a foreign commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. Expenses in local currency
financed from the SA will be disbursed through the transfer account to the State Treasury Account
opened for the Project; (c) co-financing funds flow through the Treasury Account opened for the
implementing agency.
Staffing
The finance manager will fulfill all the functions related to Project financial management requirements
including preparing necessary financial, statistics and tax reports in accordance with the legislation of
Ukraine and other necessary reporting rules. It will also cover disbursement of project funds and
maintain all necessary documentation, including payment and commercial documents, control
contractor's payments and funds reimbursements, report to the Project Coordinator and the Bank on the
use of the Project funds, provide accounting and conduct the inventory of PIU assets, as well as maintain
all accounts and necessary documentation files. A more detailed scope of activities of the finance
manager is provided in the terms of reference. Taking into account that the finance manager is the only
administrative staff for the project, the risks related to the weak intemal controls and capacity to handle
all the tasks on a timely and accurate manner, will be the key element of the Bank's control and
supervision.
Taking into account that the cost of this project is only USD 6 million and it consists of a small number
of purchasing contracts, the Government has decided that the financial manager will be hired on a
part-time basis.
As it was agreed with the Borrower, a qualified staff from the MOEIEI will be handling on a temporary
basis these functions till the Project comes into effect and a permanent finance manager will be
contracted.
Accounting policies and procedures
Operational Manual and Project Implementation Plan have been developed and approved by the
MOEIEI. They describe all the major operation and internal control procedures. The major characteristic
of the described procedures is that preparation and reporting functions are to be executed by the PIU
finance manager, while the control functions are divided into the preliminary control function executed
by the PIU Manager and the second control function executed by the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of
Economy and European Integration. These control functions are clearly specified in Order #81 of the
Ministry of Economy dated March 22, 2002.
The Financial Manual of the project is an integral part of the Operations Manual. The Financial Manual
was reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank It includes a detailed description of financial
management procedures to be followed during project implementation. Financial management part of the
manual includes a clear description of the financial manager's responsibilities that should become a part
of the scope of work in the contract with the finance manager. It also specifies the responsibilities of the
procurement specialist. The Financial Manual includes a description of the reporting formats to be
prepared for the Bank and the Ministry of Finance as well as other state control authorities. Also
included in the Operations Manual, which gives a full operational picture of the project, are descriptions
of disbursement procedures and procurement operations.
-45-



Internal audit
The PIU does not have an internal audit, but the project is subject to internal control from the MOEEI,
Ministry of Finance, and Central Control and Revision Department.
External audit
PIU will be responsible for ensuring that Project financial statements, special accounts, and Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank. The annual project audit will be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World
Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in accordance with the Intemational Standards
on Auditing promulgated by IFAC. The audited financial statements of the project will be sent to the
Bank within six (6) months of the end of the Government's fiscal year (December 31).
The first audit period for the project should end on December 31, 2003 for the reporting period then
ending. and the auditor should be appointed by the same time.
Reporting and monitoring
PIU will maintain the accounting of the Project. It has been agreed that the PIU shall be responsible for
designing appropriate financial monitoring reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a semester basis.
Such Financial Monitoring Reporting forms have been agreed, approved and found acceptable to the
Bank. The FMRs include:
o      Project sources and uses of funds
o      Uses of funds by project activity
o      Physical progress report
o      Procurement report
Besides FMR, the PIU will also submit reports on Special Account and SOE summary statement as part
of financial reporting.
Information system
The project has currently a manual accounting system. A software would be put in place and replace the
manual system. It is planned that financial informnation system will be purchased on the basis of a license
on the product developed for another project. This program will be customized for the need of the
proposed Project. The financial information system would prepare accounts and report according to
Ukrainian regulations and Bank requirements.
Cost and Performance
The project's financing plan has been assessed as realistic. Unfortunately, it is impossible to estimate the
quantitative impact of project implementation due to the piloting nature of main project goals. It is
considered that the major project goal is to develop a product for further implementation country wide on
the basis of project experience and models. Despite that fact, the PIU has developed jointly with the Bank
the system of indicators for the needs of the assessment of project efficiency.
Supervision plan
The reports on project implementation progress will be monitored in detail by the Bank's Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) during supervision missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by
the FMS and the results or issues followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports of
the project will be reviewed and issues identified and followed up. The FMS would monitor the
outstanding actions to ensure that appropriate actions have been implemented by PIU before
-46 -



effectiveness. Financial management supervision will be provided every semester. The first supervision
on the project will be canied out by the responsible FMS before effectiveness.
-47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      7                           7
First Bank mission (identiflcation)             10/11/2001                  10/11/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     05/20/2002                  05/20/2002
Negotiations                                    10/21/2002                  03/17/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/2004
Prepared by:
Andrei Mikhnev
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
_ _ _ _ _ _ , , _ _ _ , _ . _ _ _ _ _ . _ _   ~ ~ p   p e cz  t 1 -
Andrei Mikhnev                    Task Manager
Victoria Siryachenko              Stakeholders Coordination and Civil Society
Vladimir-Goran Kreacic            Private Sector Development
Craig Neal                        Public Sector Development
Cari Votava                       Business Processing
Vitaly Kazakov                    Financial Management
Richard Gargrave                  Procurement
Juan Navas-Sabater                Telecommunications Specialist
Claudia Pardinas Ocana            Lawyer
Nicholay Chistyakov               Disbursement
-48 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIPnew.doc
B. Bank Staff Assessments
FinancialManagementAssesmentReporLdoc
C. Other
Updated P   t Information Document.do OPM Ukraine E-development Final.doc E-ReadinessAss sment.doc
E-NeedsAssessment.doc GovConcept.doc SectorPolicy.doc
*Including electronic files
-49 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
26-Mar-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
OrHginal Amount In US$ Millions                      disbursements
Proect ID    FY  Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA               GEF    Cancel.   Undisb     Orig  Frn Rev'd
P069857      2003 TB/IADS CNTRL                              6000       00               000      0 00     600 0     0o00     0 00
P0698s8      2002 SIF                                        50.21     0 00              0.00     0.00     48 98    -0.73     0 00
P0549s6      2002 PRIV SEC DEV (APL#1)                       30.00     0 00              0.00     0 0      30 00     0 30     0.00
P048790      2002 AZOV-BLK SEA CORR BIODIV CONSV (GEF)         00      0 00              6.90     0 00      7 59     0 8s     009
P035786      2001 LVIV WATERIWW                              24.25     0.00              000      0 00     24 01     5 91     0 00
P055739      2000 KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC                       18.29     0.00              0.00     0 00     14 26     5 07     0 00
P044728      1998 ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)                         000      0 00             23.20     0 00      1.59     216     -3 62
P044832      1998 KIEV DISTRICT HEAT.                       20000      000               0.00     0 00    172 43   140 90    13 68
P049174      1998 TREASURY SYSTEMS Projed                    16 40     000               0 0      0 00      393      3 93     173
P044851      1997 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                         70 00     000               0 o      0 00      0 00     259      0 00
Total:    469.15      0.00            3010       000     36277     16097     1187
UKRAIE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                   1FC
FY Approval            Company                            Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic    Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
1996                   FUIB                                0.00     5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     5.00      0.00      0.00
1998                   HVB Bank Ukraine                    0.00     2.28      0.00      0.00      0.00     2.28      0.00      0.00
2001                   JSC Okean                          10.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
2000                   MBU                                 3.50      1.70     0.00      0.00      0.00      1.70      0.00     0.00
1994/96                Ukraine VC Fund                     0.00      1 50     0.00      0.00      0.00     1.15      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:             13.50    10.48      0.00      0.00       0.00    10.13      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commutment
FY Approval           Company                                Loan      Equity       Quasi      Partic
1996                  FUIB                                   10.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
1998                  HVB Bank Ukraine                        5.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
Total Pendmg Commitment:               15.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
- 50 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UKRAINE: E-Development Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                          Central     Low-
Ukraine      Asia   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                      49.1      475      2,511                Lrfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   710      1,960      430
GNI (Atlas mert, US$ billions)                       35.0       930     1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                       -0.8       0.1       19      GNI
Labor force (76)                                     -0.5       0.6       2.3     GNI                            Gross
per                     --iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                             capita                     enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)  23
Urban population (9 of otal population)               68        63        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      68        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 liv bdrths)               13        20        76
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)              ..        ..        ..          Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (96 of population)  ..       90        76
Iliteracy (6 ofpopulation age 15+)                     0         3        37
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of school-agepopulatIon)     82        102       96               U   krane
Male                                                83       103       103                  Low-income group
Female                                              81       101        68
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economkc ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                            ..     81.4      31.3      37.0
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                  .     26.3      19.2      204                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             *-     26.1      62 4      561
Gross domestic savingstGDP                     ..    28.5      24.2      22.0
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..      ..      23.9      24 1
Current account balancelGDP                    ..    -3.6       4 7       3.8     Domestic 
Interest paymentslGDP                         ..       ..       1 8       2.0       mes                      Investment
Total debtVGDP                                 ..      ..      38.9      337      savings
Total debt servicelexports                    ..       ..      18.1      10.6
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      35.4      30.7
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        .      54.6      51.5
Indebtedness
198141   1991-01    2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   .     -7.2      5.8       9.1       4.5               U   lraine
GDP per capHta                       ..     -66       6.7      10 0       5.3                  Low-lncome group
Exports ofgoods and servioes         0..     .6      18.8       9 7       7.8                  .                         _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(96 of GDP)                                                                      20
Agricufture                                    .     22.8      16.2      16.6
Industry                                      ..    50 5       37 2     39.0      o
Manufacturing                                ..    42 3      34.3      35.0                       9 _   sa   00   01
Services                                      ..    26.7       46 6     44 4     -20
Private consumptlon                            .     54.1      54.3      55.4   -40 
General govemment consumption                 .      174       21 5      22 5                   GDI     ----GDP
Imports of goods and services                 .     23.9       57.4     54.5
(average annual growth)                 1981-91  199141       2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports(%)
Agriculture                                    .     -4.2       5 9      10 9    30
Industry                                       .     -8.3      10.9      8 6     15
Manufacturing                                .     -7.7      12.8      14.2
Services                                      ..    -1.4        46       7.0      o
w               ~~~   ~~~00  0t
Private consumption                          ..     -4 9        5 2      9.1    -15
General govemment consumption                ..     -4 4       -1 9      8.6     40
Gross domestic investment                     ..   -14.6       12.1      8 5            -     Exports       Imports
Imports of goods and servioes                 .      -0.3      16.6     12 0
Note 2001 data are prelirnnary estimates
* The diamonds show four key indicators m the country (in bold) compared wth Its income-group average If data are rrssing. the diamond winl be lncomrplete
-51 -



Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
D.omes0c p rices
(% change)                                                                    50
Consumer pnces                              ..    163.4     25 8      10.9   400
ImpliIt GDP deflator                        ..    956       23.2      8.8    -00
200
Government finance                                                            100
(% of GDP, includes curent grants)                                             0                                  V
Current revenue                             ..      ..      35.1     35.6            96    97    m3   99   0o    01
Current budget balance                       .       .          1     4.4                 GDP defIator  CPi
Overall surplus/defict                       ..     ..      -1 3      -1.6
TRADE
1981    1991      2000     2001      E3port and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ mlNlllons)
Total exports (fob)                         ..   23,988   15,722    17,091    25,ooo
Ferrous and non-precious metals            .        .     6,468    6,720
Mineral products                           ..       .     1,377    1,824
Manufactures                               .        ,     2,584    3,180    |5J000
Total Imports (cif)                              21.994   14,943    16,839 -  -0|
Food                                      -.       .       908     1,126        fF     F   F    F     F     F
Fuel and energy                            ..       .     6,419    6,590     o-000
Capital goods                              ..      ..     2,625    3,379       o
95  06   97  s9   99   00  01
Export price index (1995=100)               ..                9        94
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                  ..      ..       115      112               2Exports     Q imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..     ..        84       84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
11981   1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ rnillions)
Exports of goods and services               ..  24,671    19,522   21,086      -
Imports of goods and services                .  22,162    17,947   20,47362
Resource balance                             .    2,509    1,575      613     4
Net income                                                  -942     -667     2
Net current transfers                       ..      ..       848     1,456
Current account balance                      .   -2,928    1,481     1,402        *9                         oi
Financing ntems (net)                       ..       .     -1,083     204       -      W      i 
Changes in net reserves                      ..      .      -398    -1,606   [4 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       .       .     1,476    3,090
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             .  3.68E-5      5.4      5.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                CompositIon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         .       ..   12,166    12,481
IBRD                                      ..      ..     1,991    2,328                   G:447
IDA                                        ..     ..         0        0                             A 2,328
Total debt service                          ..             3,662     2,343
IBRD                                       '       '       142      212
IDA                                        ..     ..         0        0
ComposiIon of net resource flows                                               F 4,974                      c 1.980
Offical grants                                              -8        3             \
Official creditors                        ..      .,    -1,060      716               -  ' -
Private creditors                         ..       .       332     -809                                0334
Foreign direct investment                  .       ..      594      769                                D 334
Portfolio equity                                          -201     -866                        E 2.418
World Bank program
Commitments                               ,.      ..        18      353     A- IBRD                   E - Bilateral
DIsbursements                             ..       .       113      407    | -IDA    D-Othermullilatral  F-Pnvate
Principal repayments                      ..      ..        24       69     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Netflows                                   .       ..       88      338
Interest payments                         ..      ..       118      143
Net transfers                                      .       -29      196
ueveiopment economics
-52 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27828R
20                ,    25'                      3 13'                   35'                     40'
BELARUS                          RUSSIAN                  ROADS
*1   .    \ )FEDERATION           RAILROADS
o   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
)  NATIONAL CAPITAL
POLAND       0-              !          k                    ( /<                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
|oMog, ~                                     AU WTOr N U e   S  RTP MU-L   OR
lStD'.(' , 0 W.! A .T. W:
SLOVAK  ~~~  ~~  s~~  ~   Ternopi  ~~~~  -.N~~meInytsY)  I~rsten)  a
I        U'                         S_S,, g R42WSLWX=R f;NLus  < y,, 
REPUBLIC  R              Rherkeoy         ,e Rervon-
-L  r [         RUSSIAN FEDERATIONochore>\  WMOLDOVA  (:j  H ~ A ,  \aE   r < ; / \ \   S  C   .1
rh  nvw5c0' dn-wyn  n=ythrw  nb Tow  n\ KI                (K EV                                           50 1 --/   n _  
#_ ,            .  <      ToKrr5 /ne<<          _-              > ansk~~~~~~ Kan
t. BELARUS *.   RUSA)EEAIN      \   jg          /K                A   nt                    XFDRTO
POLAND . -,                    -5     -k      v                 {vptrl                        TKorfrrd 
-  \  ROMANIA  i'tl 9                                                       ch          rl^sF9
SPED REP ,
NiOB,!uo(  ,_   ucc     _-.-*                            BLACKY SEA                 I   ..I
3'Nf BULGARIA  Sea >..* 
.FY11E   t             GE,ORGIA  BULG,ARIA                                                  F 9 -!1:.l
nIB   7   '>   TURKEY   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  30'~~~~~~~e
ytsia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH19



