Report No. PID10710
Project Name             UKRAINE-Ukraine E-Development Project (@)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Law and justice (60%); General industry
and trade sector (20%); General information and
communications sector (20%)
Project ID               P074885
Borrower(s)              UKRAINE
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND ON
EUROPEAN INTEGRATION ISSUES
Address: 12/2 Hrushevskoho St., Kiev,
Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Ihor Shumylo, First
Deputy State Secretary
Tel: (380 44) 293 9468
Fax: (380 44) 293 7435
Email: ishumilo@me.gov.ua
PIU
Address: 28 Druzhby Narodiv blvd.,
office 426, Kyiv, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Victor Bekh
Tel: (380 44) 296 9873
Fax: (380 44) 296 9873
Email: vbekh@mail.ru
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        August 28, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      December 20, 2001
Bank Approval Date       December 3, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector IssuesIn Ukraine, the use of ICTs, especially those related to
the Internet, are still in the infant stage of development. Preparations
to privatize the main state telecom monopoly - Ukrtelecom has just begun,
and thus, the Telecommunication Sector in Ukraine cannot yet meet the
market demands. Currently, the ICT Sector in Ukraine is characterized by:
the absence of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, which
validates online transactions,an undeveloped infrastructure and logistical
systems,an expensive access to the Internet, and poor local content
development. Thus, these uncertainties and limitations inhibit private
investment into the sector, preventing full-fledged utilization of the
Internet-related technologies for economic and social
development.Currently, Ukrainian companies are using the Internet for
information and communication rather than for commerce. Recently,
Ukrainian companies have started using Internet opportunities. Today there
are about 70 e-commerce sites. There is a noticeable interest among
Ukrainian companies that are using the Internet to participate in
conducting on-line business transactions. According to some studies, 79.3%
of corporate Internet users know about business-to-business opportunities,



and 52.89 are interested in utilizing them.Today, the share of
business-to-business on-line activity comparing to offline is negligible
in Ukraine. No company can execute on-line transactions, therefore the
existing virtual marketplaces functioning in Ukraine are, at best,
electronic versions of company price-lists. Cash on delivery or
traditional banking transaction settlements are the most common methods of
e-commerce payment.Currently there is virtually no possibility for online
interaction between the Government, businesses, and the citizens. Although
most of the Ukraine's state agencies have their web-sites, only limited
number of state agencies' web-sites display even basic information: like
hours of operation, contact information and list of services. At present,
many state organizations are considering the possibility of enhancing
their web-sites in order to execute the Decree of the President of Ukraine
on "Measures for developing the national component of the global
information net - Internet - and securing public access to it in
Ukraine" .An example of the Government institutions coming online with
interactive tools could be the official site of the Ukrainian Security
Service - http://www.sbu.gov.ua/. Recently, some Government officials have
began to participate in forums and conduct on-line conferences using
privately-owned web-portals.Box 1: Sector StatisticsResearch, conducted
separately by Taylor Nelson Sofres Interactive and SpyLOG Ukraine in July
2001 show that 41- of respondents were aware about available Internet
services, 2.5w responded that they regularly use the Internet, and 4t said
that they use Internet occasionally. As of the end of 2001 there are
around 1,100,000 regular users of Internet in Ukraine.The majority of
Ukrainian Internet users are male (61%). Internet is regularly used
primarily by young people: 43% of users are 25-39 years old, 32% are
18-24, and only 25% of users are over 40 years old.In terms of education
level, people with graduate education constitute the majority - 79% of
users. Those currently employed constitute 80% of users, the most of the
remaining 20% of users are full-time students. Most of the users are
white-color workers with 55% being specialists of different kind, 21% -
managers of all levels, 12% - office clerks. Only 6% of users are
blue-color workers.Up to 20 % of the Internet users are government
employees, 30-40 % are corporate customers, 10-189 are medium and small
businesses, 22-30% are miscellaneous customers.There are 23,969
web-servers (2,075,510 URLs) in Ukraine, 80% of them are in Russian, 14%
in Ukrainian and 4? use both languages that constitute around 0.5 domains
per 1000 people in Ukraine. Only 9% of all Ukrainian web-sites are located
outside of Ukraine. There are about 360 internet service
providers.According to the market research of the Ukraine Marketing Group,
which covered 400 corporate Internet users in 7 regions where Internet is
the most developed, 63.5% of companies didn't have their corporate
web-sites. Most of them (93.4%) think that modern Ukrainian company should
have at least a web-page, and 57.1% are interested in creating their own
page. The list of Ukrainian entities interested in web-pages are mass
media companies, IT companies, major exporters, major wholesalers,
personnel service companies, government agencies, financial institutions
and research centers. For the last two years the situation has changed
dramatically and the number of corporate web-sites has grown
significantly: at the beginning of 1999 number of corporate web-sites
didn't exceed 1,400, at the end of 2001 their number totaled
24,000.Government StrategyThe Government of Ukraine has yet to develop its
comprehensive e-government strategy. However, several important regulatory
steps have been made in this direction:Law of Ukraine on the National
-2 -



Informatization Program outlined general framework aiming to establish
necessary conditions for supplying citizens of Ukraine with updated,
reliable and comprehensive information disseminated through ICT means and
with necessary security provisions. The main objectives declared by the
Law are:- establishment of legal, economical, institutional, financial and
other prerequisites for informatization;- introduction and development new
technologies in social life of Ukrainian citizens;- formation and support
of the market of information products and services;- Ukraine's integration
into global networked society.This Law describes general functional
responsibilities of the state bodies regarding the National
Informatization Program and administrative procedures for creation of the
state programs in the area of informatization. The President of Ukraine
issued the Decree in July 2000, outlining the Government targets and
priorities in developing Ukrainian part of the World Wide Web (Internet).
In particular, the Decree contains the clauses demanding:- provision of
citizens with a wide Internet-enabled access to information;- improvement
of the Government and the State information presentation in the Internet;-
facilitation of the Government support in development of infrastructure
enabling use of Internet;- development of legal and administrative
framework facilitating electronic business and proliferation of use of
Internet resources in Ukraine;- development of general requirements to the
Government agencies to make information available to the Web and to
establish presence of all central government agencies and regional state
administrations (in Ukrainian and English languages) in the Internet;-
promotion of information technologies in the agencies of state
administration, health care, public finance, and national economy
administration.The First Deputy Prime-Minister of Ukraine approved the
Concept of the essential elements of e-development in Ukraine (letter
#2-1507/9 dated 21.05.2001) that includes:- improving transparency of
operations of the Government of Ukraine through introduction of the public
e-procurement and e-documentation flow models in selected departments of
the Ministry of Economy and on the European Integration Issues and the
Ministry of Finance of Ukraine; - developing models for on-line dialogue
between public authorities and civil society at the national and regional
level with the use of ICT;- creating the regulatory framework based on
international experience and standards to enable on-line business
transactions.These and other legal documents demonstrate Government's
commitment to the sector development, however due to the limited financial
and human resources available (for the National Informatization Program
only 8 ml. UAH, i.e. about $1,5 ml. were allocated from the budget funds),
they have not been properly implemented. Many Ukrainian ministries and
other governmental agencies (e.g. Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of
Finance, State Treasury) are planning or have already initiated
restructuring/enhancement of their internal information systems, business
processes re-engineering, and introduction of some forms of electronic
document flow. Unfortunately, the lack of comprehensive strategy and lack
of budget funds resulted in the fact that only few of them use the
e-government approach and Internet-based solutions as the technological
platform and basis for business process re-design. It means that soon they
will have to spend time and resources again to re-design their systems to
fit e-government requirements. This cost could be minimized by using
e-government-oriented approach applied or at least taken into account now.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to enhance efficiency
- 3-



of the Government actions, foster private sector development, and
strengthen civil society in Ukraine through the introduction of innovative
models of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) solutions.The
Project is focused on three areas, E-Government, E-Business Environment,
and Public-Private E-Dialogue. The first component, E-Government, will
introduce e-procurement and e-documentation flow models, which could
substantially improve efficiency in Ukraine's public administration at the
central and regional levels. The E-Business Environment component will
create legal and regulatory framework, which will allow on-line
transactions in Ukraine to be recognized as legally binding. This legal
framework will be based on best practices and compatible with the E.U.
standards. The third component, Public-Private E-Dialogue, will develop
on-line models and tools for enhancing public involvement in the
governance processes through active participation in the development of
public polices and regulatory decision making process.The outcomes of the
Project and lessons learned would be used to demonstrate the benefits of
applying best ICT solutions to overcome and manage selected development
problems of transitional economies. The proposed solutions would, if
implemented, improve accountability, transparency and efficiency within
the Ukrainian bureaucracy, and thus attain the Project development
objective. The results achieved would facilitate the initiation of larger
projects that would spread out developed models across the country. This
would improve administrative decision-making processes at all levels of
government, which would lead to better system of governance. Additional
benefits to the general population would include reduced costs in time and
administrative expenses when having to obtain administrative approvals,
licenses, documents, etc. This will have a spill-over effect of enabling
the private sector to improve efficiency.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The experience with successful introduction of e-development elements in
more developed countries can provide a powerful demonstration effect for
the Ukrainian citizens. The Bank will provide financial and knowledge
support and to engage the Government of Ukraine in coherent, effective,
broad-based approach to develop and introduce the appropriate practice and
solutions for enhancing public-private partnership in Ukraine. The Bank
team will supervise the Project implementation and will ensure timely
responses to the Borrower's requests. The Project will have synergy with
the Bank's on-going and planned operations. In particular, lessons learned
from the previous projects and designing new activities will impact the
Project. The project strengthens and expands the reforms supported by the
Bank's lending operations for private sector development and public sector
efficiency (Private Sector Development and Programmatic Adjustment Loan).
Lastly, the Bank will use experience gained from the similar projects in
other countries.
4. Description
1. The E-Government component provides for the development and
introduction of the public e-procurement and e-documentation flow models
aimed at increasing efficiency, transparency and accountability of
Government actions.The E-procurement sub-component will develop, and
launch the most appropriate solution to digitize public procurement for
National Competitive Bidding of goods, services and works. Fine-tuning of
the developed model will be based on feedbacks and recommendations from
public agencies and vendors to assure its replicability.The
- 4 -



E-documentation flow subcomponent will find the best suitable solution for
the automation and reengineering of the decision-making processes in two
pilot state agencies. The model aims to digitize the preparation,
appraisal, approval, implementation, supervision, and completion phases of
the document flow of the resolutions and decrees of the Government of
Ukraine.The training needs will be assessed, training modules developed
and training sessions provided for respective Government officials to
ensure a smooth shift to electronic procurement and documentation flow. 2.
The E-Business Environment component will assess the main bottlenecks in
current legislation that hamper e-business growth. Essential corresponding
legislative, normative, and regulatory acts that enable on-line business
transactions will be developed. The private sector in Ukraine has a
capacity to develop the infrastructure needed for on-line transactions.
However, the current legal vacuum creates costly risks and uncertainties
that prevent the private sector from large investments in on-line
business. Following a detailed analysis of the current e-legislation the
contracted firm will work closely with the Government and private sector
to develop and introduce, or submit to the Parliament, regulatory acts,
which would open possibilities for on-line transactions to the Government,
private businesses and citizens. This component will complement other TAL
components by securing a favorable e-business regulatory environment.3.
The Public-Private E-Dialogue component will provide for on-line tools for
an exchange of ideas between public authorities and representatives of
private sector and civil society at the national regional levels.
Introduction of these tools would i) improve public sector transparency
and accountability, and ii) strengthen the role and involvement of Civil
Society in the governance process. The component will strengthen the
Ukrainian NGOs and private sector representatives' leadership in
public-private partnership by increasing the voice of the Ukrainians
through a series of on-line and off-line seminars, workshops, public
hearings, and conferences. The Ukraine e-development web-portal
(http://www.e-ukraine.org/) built in conjunction with the World Bank
Development Gateway Project, and capacities created within the Global
Development Learning Network Project,
(http://www.uapa-dlc.org.ua/indexe.html) could serve as possible entry
points for this activity.4. Administrations and Monitoring. Ministry of
Economy and on European Integration Issues of Ukraine is responsible for
this project and will present the Government interests. Project activities
will be administrated and monitored by the Project Implementation Unit
established by the Decree of the Ministry of Economy and on European
Integration Issues of Ukraine #81 dated March 22, 2002. Moreover, the
component will provide for an independent assessment of the lessons
learned from the introduction of the TAL models. In addition, the
contracted consultants should develop practical recommendations for
further expansion and replication of the models developed within the
Project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $1.00
IBRD                     $5.00
IDA
Total Project Cost       $6.00
6. Implementation
-5-



The proposed project will be implemented over a period of thirty months
(January 1, 2003 - June 1, 2005). The following summarizes the
institutional arrangements and project management
responsibilities.Ministry of Economy and on European Integration Issues of
Ukraine is the agency responsible for coordination of project activities
with other Ministries, State Agencies, and regional administrations
related to the Project implementation as well as the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The Ministry of Economy of Ukraine on European
Integration Issues will perform the following functions:Participate in the
development of the Project documentation Provide documents necessary to
launch the Project implementation. Adjust and approve relevant Project
documents.Control the Project implementation.Provide expert support to the
Project.Provide economic information for Project implementation.Coordinate
the work of government institutions involved in the Project.Mobilize
additional resources for Project implementation.Ministry of Finance of
UkraineUnder the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Resolution of October 10,
2001, # 1317 "On the Procedure for Preparation and Implementation of
Ukraine's Social and Economic Development Projects Supported by
International Finance Institutions", the Ministry of Finance will
supervise the efficient disbursement and timely repayment of foreign
loans. Project Implementation Unit (PIU)The main tasks of the Project
Implementation Unit are:managing all relevant activities to fulfill
Project tasks, including the required tenders to hire consultants,
ensuring methodological and staff support;monitoring Project
implementation progress, and, on the basis of conclusions from Project
implementation performance analysis, reviewing and adjusting the Project
implementation program;monitoring the fulfillment of Project
tasks;reporting to the responsible agencies of Ukraine's Government and to
the World Bank on all issues of Project implementation; andpreparing
appropriate financial documentation for the Ministry of Finance.Summary
reports, drawn upon completion of each Project Component, and semi-annual
Financial Management Reports shall be submitted to the World Bank,
Ministry of Economy and on European Integration Issues of Ukraine. Based
on the results of monitoring analysis of the project progress, the PIU
experts shall work out proposals for improvement of Project implementation
efficiency. These proposals shall be included in the reports structure as
a separate section.
7. Sustainability
The Project is seizing the moment when increased demand from the private
sector and civil society coincides with presence of champions within the
Government of Ukraine ready to support and promote the Project. The
Project exhibits a number of important characteristics that ensure its
sustainability.The TAL uses lessons learned not only from the previous
Bank projects but also lessons from the successful efforts made in the
European transitional economies. These lessons show that the governments
have the capacity to maintain and develop the e-government solutions based
on the world best practice.A strong commitment of the Government of
Ukraine to develop and introduce modern e-government solutions is
demonstrated by the allocation of additional funds for the Project.To
ensure the implementation and proper utilization of the developed models
the Project envisages intensive training of the civil servants at the
national and regional level.Participating in the Project design
representatives of the private sector an civil society have articulated
clear demand and support to the Project outputs. Ukraine e-Development
- 6 -



Association has already made considerable efforts to lobby market-oriented
e-business regulations and to consolidate civil society voice for better
government services provision. Such type of NGOs will play a vital role in
the sustainability of the Project outputs.The Project envisages
replication of the models created under the project at the national and
regional level. All replicated models will be self-sustainable as they
will operate beyond the Project pilots.Broad public information campaigns,
disseminating information on success stories and having strong
demonstration effect through disseminating results of successful
implementation of the developed models would increase the likelihood of
their wider use and therefore ensure their greater
sustainability.Increased capacity of the Project PIU would be used for
other development projects.Evaluating assessments would lay solid
background for making decision of the expansion of e-development approach
to the future projects.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from other countries reflected in the Project designThe design of
this Project takes into account key lessons learned from the international
experience, other Bank projects, and initiatives. Key lessons from
international experience include: (a) broad participatory cross-sectoral
approach along with the champions presence within the Government produces
significant positive results and benefits; (b) commitment on the part of
the Government to re-engineer their processes to deliver transparent
services to the citizens and businesses is essential; (c) development of a
legal framework compatible to EU directives and conducive to private
sector investments in ICT ensures the sustainable economic growth.
Particularly, the Slovenia Government "Strategy of e-commerce in public
administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the period from 2001 until
2004" was designed in collaboration with external professionals and broad
participation of private sector and civil society. It is to serve as a
basis for all efforts, projects, activities and tasks within the
transition of public administration into an information society. The
unified state e-Government portal at
http://e-gov.gov.si/e-uprava/english/index.jsp has been launched to
provide Slovenian citizens and foreigners with information and services in
electronic form on official matters. The Slovenian Strategy took into
consideration best EU practices to make e-solutions compatible, and at the
same time it includes all the limitations and distinctions of public
administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Another example of successful
efforts made from the Government side is the Estonian Cabinet of Ministers
Session Infosystem (http://www.riik.ee/valitsus/viis/viisengl.html). The
project has automated the preparation processes and proceedings of the
Estonian Government Cabinet meetings. The final objective is to prepare
all materials digitally and thus to reduce coping costs and delivery time.
The system also permits on-line discussions with specialists not
participating in these meetings.The project of Obninsk City Administration
Web-site (http://www.obninsk.ru/index_en.html) is an effort of the
regional administration to use an Internet-driven approach to strengthen
public-private partnership and to increase the transparency of local
authorities' activity, including some elements of e-procurement.The World
Bank Development Gateway (http://www.developmentgateway.org/) and many
country-specific gateways supported under this initiative provide notable
examples and demonstrations of the benefits of ICT applicability.
Development Gateway provides links to ideas and good practice, information
- 7 -



about development activities and trends, funding, and commercial
opportunities. Gateway serves the needs of a broad array of stakeholders,
including the public sector, the donor community, civil society, and the
private sector, which are playing vital roles in Development Gateway
governance, editorial management, and content development.The World Bank
InfoDev facility finances 32 Gateway projects in different countries that
set up a good foundation for the enhancement of the e-development ideas
based on country-specific demands. The Development Gateway idea provides a
good background for future expansion in e-development areas. The lessons
learned from the Ukraine e-readiness and e-needs studies, financed through
the Ukraine Development Gateway Project, were taken into consideration
while designing the TAL.Lessons from the previous Bank operations in
UkraineThe previous projects show that the close collaboration between the
Bank and Borrower is prerequisite of successful project implementation. In
particular:n Strong Borrower ownership over the Project is a key to its
successful implementation;n Training of the beneficiary agencies staff is
crucial for the project sustainability in the future;n Involvement of the
representatives of civil society and private sector in the project design
improves the political and social support to the project;f An experienced
Project Implementation Unit reduces overhead costs of the Project
implementation;n A strong Bank team located in the country is of key
importance for the adequate response to the client needs;n A realistic
approach to the project objectives and time frames.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The Project does not affect the environmental
issues.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andrei Mikhnev
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: ++380 44 490 6671
Fax: ++380 44 490 6670
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
September 6, 2002.
-8-



