Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4692-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(E-Development Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 1, 2003 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4692-UA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 2003, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)  the Bank has received a letter dated April 7, 2003, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies (the Program) designed to 
enhanc
e
the efficiency of the Borrower’s decision-making process for public procurement 
and documentation flow, foster private sector development, and strengthen the 
Borrower’s civil society through the introduction of innovative models of information 
and communication technologies (ICT) solutions, and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the said Program; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
(b) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(c) 
“Inter-Agency Working Group” means the group established by the 
Resolution of the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers No. 461-r, dated August 17, 2002, and 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“MOEIEI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Issues of 
European Integration established and operating pursuant to the Decree of the Borrower’s 
President No. 1159/2000,  dated October 23, 2000, as amended from time to time; 
(e) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
(f) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual developed by the MOEIEI and 
adopted by the Project Coordinator (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (g) of this 
Section), First Deputy State Secretary of the MOEIEI, on June 21, 2002, setting forth the 
operational procedures and guidelines to be utilized by the MOEIEI in the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 
(g) 
“Project Coordinator” means the person authorized by the Order of the 
MOEIEI No. 81, dated March 22, 2002 to coordinate Project preparation and 
implementation;  
  
 
(h) 
“Project Implementation Unit” and “PIU” means the Project 
Implementation Unit established within the MOEIEI by the Order of the MOEIEI No. 81, 
dated March 22, 2002, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a foreign commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan ($50,000).  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Page  6
-
4
-
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest 
Payment 
Date” 
means 
any 
date 
specified 
in         
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15
 
and August 15 in each year. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOEIEI with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, business, 
engineering, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
the MOEIEI, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and the selection and employment of the consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial and Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through the MOEIEI, shall maintain
 
a
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MOEIEI, shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
MOEIEI, shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
Page  9
-
7
-
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  The Borrower, through the MOEIEI
,
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester.  
 
Section 4.03.  
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
not later than October 31, 2005, submit for the consideration of the 
Verkhovna Rada 
(Parliament) the proposed legislative framework for on-line 
transactions, as such framework has been identified in agreement with the Bank under 
Part B of the Project as necessary to legalize on-line business transactions in the 
Borrower’s territory and thereby complement and ensure the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; and 
Page  10
-
8
-
(b) 
not later than June 30, 2006, take all action required to amend and/or 
adopt the regulatory and administrative acts necessary for the proper implementation of 
the legislative framework referred to in the preceding paragraph (a) so as to enable on-
line business transactions in the Borrower’s territory in a manner consistent with the 
objectives of the Project. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have appointed the Project Financial 
Manager to the PIU under terms of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
Section 6.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
 
is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 Kyiv, 
01008 
 Ukraine 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
131450 
  (380-44) 
293-6256 
 
(380-44) 201-5684 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By 
/s/  Kostyantyn I. Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Luca Barbone 
Director 
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  13
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
100,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100%
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of  
 
local expenditures for other  
 
items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
4,750,000 
 100% for foreign consulting  
 
firms and foreign individual 
 
consultants, 87% for local  
 
consulting firms, and 92% for  
 
local individual consultants 
 
(3) 
Operating costs 
50,000 
100% until December 31, 2004, 
 
80%
until December 31, 2005, 
 
 
and 25% thereafter 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
50,000 
Amount due under Section 2.04  
 
of
this Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
50,000
TOTAL 5,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
Page  14
-
12 -
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “consultants’ services” means the services of the consultants to 
be selected and employed by the Borrower in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines 
(as hereinafter defined in Part A of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) for the 
implementation of the activities to be carried out under the Project; 
(d) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(e) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of a territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(f) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; 
(g) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of the territory of the Borrower; and 
(h) 
the term “Operating costs” means expenditures incurred to finance the 
reasonable and necessary expenses for the operations, administration and ordinary 
maintenance of the PIU, and which include rent, utilities, office equipment, supplies, 
software, and the cost of communications, transportation and operational travel of the 
staff of the PIU. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Part 
D
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) services of individual consultants and 
training, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, excluding those 
referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Part D of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(iii) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to enhance efficiency of the Borrower’s 
decision-making process for public procurement and documentation flow, foster private 
sector development, and strengthen civil society in the country, all through the 
introduction of innovative models of Information and Communication Technologies 
(ICT) solutions. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
E-Government
Carrying out of a program to develop and introduce a working model for public 
electronic procurement and for electronic documentation flow aimed at increasing 
efficiency and transparency of the Borrower’s actions in such areas, and encompassing: 
(i) analysis of the current situation and identification of priorities; (ii) evaluation of 
different options to implement the desired solutions; (iii) design and development of the 
selected solutions; (iv) introduction of the developed models; (v) learning of the initial 
lessons and gathering of feedback from target groups; (vi) fine-tuning of the final 
version; (vii) evaluation of prospects for replication of models; (viii) comparative 
analysis of the efficiency of the developed models using control groups; (ix) assessment 
of the institutional and regulatory changes necessary to maximize efficiency of the 
developed models; (x) assessment and strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to 
operate the models so developed; and (xi) provision of the required training, all as it 
applies specifically to the following activities: 
1. 
design and launch of the most appropriate solution to digitize public procurement 
for national competitive bidding procedures for goods, works and services in the country, 
encompassing a legal analysis of the Borrower’s procurement legal framework and the 
proposal of amendments required to facilitate the introduction of Internet-based 
transactions in the procurement cycle, and the carrying out of a pilot testing in one (1) of 
the Borrower’s state agencies with the larger volume of procurement transactions; and 
2. 
development of the most appropriate model for documentation flow to increase 
efficiency of the decision-making process (preparation, appraisal, approval, 
implementation, supervision and completion phases) of the document flow for issuing 
and monitoring the resolutions and orders of the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers, 
extended pilot testing thereof, and introduction of a workflow information system to 
Page  16
-
14 -
allow the secure processing and exchange of e-documents between and within the 
participating agencies.    
Part B:
E-Business Environment
Development of a legislative, normative and regulatory environment adequate to 
accelerate enabling on-line transactions, develop a framework for their introduction, and 
secure a favorable e-business regulatory environment for the other Parts of the Project, 
thereby complementing them, on the basis of: (i) a detai
led analysis of the Borrower’s 
legislation presently in force; (ii) participatory discussions with the Borrower’s relevant 
agencies and the country private sector; (iii) the identification of, and reporting on, the 
main bottlenecks in the current legislation that hamper the carrying out of on-line 
transactions; (iv) the development and introduction of the legal and regulatory acts 
enabling on-line transactions, including, 
inter alia
,
on
electronic signature, electronic 
document flow, electronic commerce, intellectual property rights (including copyright) 
for on-line products and services, and data protection; and (v) the provision of 
benchmarking data on the market share of on-line business in developed countries. 
Part C:
Public-Private E-Dialogue
Strengthening of the role and involvement of the private sector and civil society 
in the Borrower’s governance process, through the development and implementation of 
on-line tools for dialogue between state agencies and representatives of private sector and 
civil society both at the national and regional levels so as to enhance public management 
transparency and accountability, including: (i) an assessment of the needs of target 
groups in on-line information and services and of the existing capacities and needs for 
their development, assessing in particular the extent of the digital divide in the 
Borrower’s regions; (ii) development and testing approaches and models of on-line tools 
for public-private dialogue; (iii) establishment of Regional Information Centers (RICs) 
and development of their business models; (iv) provision of training sessions, seminars, 
and workshops so as to ensure broad participation and public awareness; (v) gathering of 
feedback, comments and recommendations for further fine-tuning; and (vi) summarizing 
and publicizing of the lessons learned therefrom, for which pilot activities will be carried 
out: 
1. 
at the national level, for the development of tools and models for on-line dialogue 
between the Borrower’s central state agencies and representatives of the private sector 
and civil society presented by the non-governmental organizations, including the 
development of a national web portal organized around the needs of different groups of 
stakeholders and incorporating information about key government services; and 
Page  17
-
15 -
2. 
at the regional level, for the development and launching in one (1) 
Oblast
 
(region) and one (1) city of a model for on-line dialogue between the citizens and 
regional administrations, encompassing the creation and maintenance of the 
Oblast
 and 
city administrations’ web-sites and RICs to provide information about the 
administrations’ planned and completed activities and allow people to communicate with 
the officials, and provision of assistance by trained RICs personnel. 
Part D:
Administration and Monitoring
Support to the successful maintenance of the PIU and the Inter-Agency Working 
Group so as to ensure efficient Project management and maximization of the 
demonstration effect of the Project by the carrying out of thorough monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project’s activities, including carrying out of the annual audit of the 
Loan and independent assessments of the developed models, and provision of 
recommendations for the future dissemination of such models. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
Page  18
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
August 15, 2008 
 
145,000 
 
February 15, 2009 
 
145,000 
 
August 15, 2009 
 
145,000 
 
February 15, 2010 
 
150,000 
 
August 15, 2010 
 
150,000 
 
February 15, 2011 
 
150,000 
 
August 15, 2011 
 
155,000 
 
February 15, 2012 
 
155,000 
 
August 15, 2012 
 
155,000 
 
February 15, 2013 
 
155,000 
 
August 15, 2013 
 
160,000 
 
February 15, 2014 
 
160,000 
 
August 15, 2014 
 
160,000 
 
February 15, 2015 
 
165,000 
 
August 15, 2015 
 
165,000 
 
February 15, 2016 
 
165,000 
 
August 15, 2016 
 
170,000 
 
February 15, 2017 
 
170,000 
 
August 15, 2017 
 
170,000 
 
February 15, 2018 
 
175,000 
 
August 15, 2018 
 
175.000 
 
February 15, 2019 
 
175,000 
 
August 15, 2019 
 
180,000 
 
February 15, 2020 
 
180,000 
 
August 15, 2020 
 
180,000 
 
February 15, 2021 
 
185,000 
 
August 15, 2021 
 
185,000 
 
February 15, 2022 
 
190,000 
 
August 15, 2022 
 
190,000 
 
February 15, 2023 
 
195,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  19
-
17 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods required for Project implementation shall be procured in accordance with: 
(i) the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (ii) the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures: International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
18 -
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any requests for price quotations, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to the first two (2) contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C of this Section, regardless of the cost 
thereof, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; 
provided, however, that the word “bids” in such paragraph 4 shall be read as 
“quotations”. 
Page  21
-
19 -
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services required for Project implementation shall be procured in 
accordance with: (i) the provisions of Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the 
Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto; and     
(ii) the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services and 
training shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits under Part D of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for independent assessments of models 
developed and for the Project administration and monitoring under Part D of the Project, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $320,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
Page  22
-
20 -
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to the consultants 
of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
selected in accordance with the provisions of Part B or C.1 of this Section II, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two (2) contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants, regardless of the cost thereof; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants or training estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of the 
candidates and the terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided however, that prior review and approval by the Bank shall still apply to 
the terms of reference for such contracts.  
Page  23
-
21 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Section I:
Organizational Arrangements
1. 
Project Implementation Unit
The Borrower, through the MOEIEI, shall maintain the PIU throughout Project 
implementation provided with financial and human resources adequate to enable it to 
carry out its responsibilities under the Project under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank.  In particular, the PIU shall be responsible for: (i) drafting the relevant Project 
documents and securing their approval from the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) preparing 
and organizing the procurement procedures for goods and the selection and employment 
procedures for consultants’ services to be financed under the Loan; (iii) preparing the 
documents required for the disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan; (iv) monitoring of 
the services provided by the consultants and making any recommendations that may be 
required to improve their performance; (v) preparation of audits required under the Loan 
Agreement; and (vi) engaging the different stakeholders to ensure the Borrower adopts a 
participatory approach in the carrying out of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MOEIEI, shall maintain the Inter-Agency Working 
Group throughout Project implementation composed of representatives from the 
Borrower’s state agencies responsible for providing quality control and serving as a 
policy dialogue facility in charge of coordinating the work of the agencies involved in 
Project implementation.  
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOEIEI, shall take all action required to ensure that 
the Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operations Manual or any 
provision thereof. 
Section II:
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower, through the MOEIEI, shall: 
Page  24
-
22 -
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
indicators the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 1, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by May 1, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  25
-
23 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $300,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $90,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  26
-
24 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  27
-
25 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
 the 
General Conditions. 
 
