                                          Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                               Report No: NCO0000419




                     NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT (NCO)

                                     (Loan No IBRD - 46920)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                                      IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                  US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                            TO THE

                                           UKRAINE

                                            FOR AN

                                   E-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                        December 18 2006




Private and Financial Sectors Development
ECCU2
Europe and Central Asia


                                               1

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 2006

              Currency Unit = Hryvnya (UAH)
                   UAH 100 = 20.66884 US$
                    US$ 1.00 = 5.26580 UAH

                       FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 ­ December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
EU       European Union
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICT      Information and Communication Technologies
MOE      Ministry of Economy
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
QCBS     Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
TOR      Terms of Reference


           Vice President:         Shigeo Katsu
         Country Director:         Paul G. Bermingham
          Sector Manager:          Gerardo M. Corrochano
        Task Team Leader:          Paulo Guilherme Correa




                              2

                                                                  UKRAINE

                                                        E-Development Project

                                                                CONTENTS

1. Basic Information.................................................................................................................................... 4
2. Key Dates................................................................................................................................................ 4
3. Ratings Summary.................................................................................................................................... 4
4. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................................ 5
5. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................................... 5
6. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.......................................................................... 5
7. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation ...................................................................... 7
8. Assessment of Bank Performance .......................................................................................................... 8
10. Assessment of Borrower Performance.................................................................................................. 9
11. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................................... 9




                                                                          3

1. Basic Information (some fields are pre-populated by the system)
Country: Ukraine                                                Project Name: E-Development Project

Project ID: P074885                                             L/C/TF Number(s):IBRD-46920

NCO Date: December 18 2006

Lending Instrument: TAL                                         Borrower: Ukraine

Original total commitment: USD 5.0 Million                      Disbursed Amount: USD 0.1 Million

Environmental category: C

Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Economy

Co financiers and Other External Partners: None


2. Key Dates (all fields are pre-populated by the system)
       Process                    Date                   Process            Original Date         Revised/Actual Date(s)

Concept Review:         10/08/2001               Effectiveness:          07/26/2004            07/26/2004

Appraisal:              05/20/2002               Closing:                12/31/2006            12/31/2006

Approval:               05/06/2003


3. Ratings Summary1
Performance Ratings by NCO

Outcome:                                                                              Not Applicable

Risk to Development Outcome:                                                          Not Applicable

Bank Performance:                                                                             U

Borrower Performance:                                                                        HU




1All ratings given by the NCO should use a six-point rating scale (Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly Unsatisfactory), except for the rating of Risk to Development Outcome
that uses a four-point scale (Negligible to Low, Moderate, Significant, High).
                                                              4

4. Sector and Theme Codes2
(the original column is pre-populated by the systemthe same as in SAP/AUS)
                                                                             Original                   Actual

Sector Code (as % of total amount)

1. General Industry and Trade Sector                                            50
2. General public administration sector                                         30
3. General Information and Communications Sector                                20
4.
5.
                                                                         Original Priority          Actual Priority
Thematic Code (Primary/ Secondary)
1. Administrative and Civil Service Reform                                       P
2. Regulation and Competition Policy                                             P
3. Public Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement                      P
4. Participation and Civic Engagement                                            S
5. Other accountability/anti-corruption                                          S

5. Bank Staff (some fields are pre-populated by the system)
          Positions                          At NCO                                       At Approval

Vice President:               Shigeo Katsu                                Johannes F. Linn

Country Director:             Paul G. Bermingham                          Luca Barbone

Sector Manager:               Gerardo M. Corrochano                       Khaled F. Sherif

Project Team Leader:          Paulo Guilherme Correa                      Andrei Mikhnev

NCO Team Leader:              Paulo Guilherme Correa

NCO Primary Author:           Hiran Heart


6. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD, briefly describe the
country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance, development objectives, components,
costs and funding, implementation arrangements, risk analysis, and quality at entry):
One of the main goals of the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ukraine for the period of financial
years 2001-2003 was to assist Ukraine in attaining sustainable economic growth, in particular by: (i) Ensuring
good governance, transparency and accountability in the public sector; (ii) Building a basis for sustainable private
enterprise; and (iii) Helping Civil Society increase its voice for better government and social services provision.
The E-Development Project was expected to support these goals.

In Ukraine, the use of ICTs, especially those related to Internet use, was still in the infant stage of Development,
at the time the project was conceived. Discussions on the privatization of the main state telecom monopoly -
Ukrtelecom - had just begun, and thus, the telecommunication sector in Ukraine could not at that point in time,
meet market demands. During this period. the ICT Sector in Ukraine was characterized by:

    · the absence of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, which would have validated online
         transactions;
    · an undeveloped infrastructure and logistical systems;
    · an expensive access to the Internet; and
    · weak local content development.


2There can be a maximum of five Sector Codes (that has more than zero percent) and five Theme codes (of which up to two
are "Primary").
                                                           5

These uncertainties and limitations inhibited private investment in the ICT sector, preventing full-fledged
utilization of the Internet-related technologies for economic and social development. For instance, the Ukrainian
companies were using the Internet for information and communication rather than for commerce. In early 2003,
there were about 70 e-commerce sites in Ukraine; 79.3% of corporate Internet users knew about business-to-
business opportunities, and 52.8% were interested in utilizing them (Source: World Bank Project Appraisal
Document on a Proposed Technical Assistance Loan in the amount of US$5 Million to Ukraine for E-
Development Project, Report No. 25752).

Not surprisingly, the share of business-to-business on-line activity comparing to offline was negligible in Ukraine.
No company could execute on-line transactions; therefore the existing virtual marketplaces functioning in Ukraine
was at best, electronic versions of company price-lists. Cash on delivery or traditional banking transaction
settlements were the most common methods of e-commerce payments. At the time of project preparation, there
was virtually no possibility for online interaction between the Government, businesses, and citizens. Although
most of the Ukraine's state agencies had their web-sites, only a limited number of state agencies' web-sites
displayed even basic information such as hours of operation, contact information and list of services.

The Government of Ukraine had yet to develop a comprehensive E-Government strategy. However, several
important regulatory steps had been made in this direction:

     · The Law of Ukraine #74-98/VR on the National Informatization Program adopted on February 4, 1998
         outlined general framework aiming to establish necessary conditions for supplying citizens of Ukraine
         with updated, reliable and comprehensive information disseminated through ICT means and with
         necessary security provisions. The main objectives declared by the Law were: (i) establishment of legal,
         economical, institutional, and financial and other prerequisites for Informatization; (ii) introduction and
         development of new technologies in social life of Ukrainian citizens; (iii) support for the market of
         information products and services; and (iv) Ukraine's integration into global networked society. This Law
         described general functional responsibilities of the state bodies regarding the National Informatization
         Program and administrative procedures for creation of the state Programs in the area of Informatization.

     · The President of Ukraine issued the Decree #928/2000 on the Measures for Developing the National Part
         of the Global Information Network - Internet, and Securing Wide Access. In particular, the Decree
         contained the clauses demanding: (i) provision of citizens with a wide Internet-enabled access to
         information: (ii) improvement of the Government and the State information presentation in the Internet;
         (iii) facilitation of the Government support in development of infrastructure enabling use of Internet; (iv)
         development of legal and administrative framework facilitating electronic business and proliferation of
         use of the Internet resources in Ukraine; (v) development of general requirements to the Government
         agencies to make information available to the Web and to establish presence of all central government
         agencies; regional and state administrations in Ukrainian and English languages on the Internet; (vi)
         promotion of information technologies in the agencies of state administration, health care, public finance,
         and national economic administration.

     · The First Deputy Prime-Minister of Ukraine approved the Concept of the essential elements of E-
         Development in Ukraine (letter #2-1507/9 dated 21.05.2001) that included: (i) improving transparency of
         operations of the Government of Ukraine through introduction of the public E-Procurement and E-
         Documentation Flow models in selected departments of the Ministry of Economy (MOE) and the
         Ministry of Finance of Ukraine; (ii) developing models for on-line dialogue between public authorities
         and civil society at the national and regional level with the use of ICT; (iii) creating the regulatory
         framework based on international experience and standards to enable on-line business transactions.

These and other legal documents demonstrated the Government's commitment to the development of the sector.
However, due to the limited financial and human resources available (for the National Informatization Program,
only UAH 8 million UAH, i.e. about $1.5 million, were allocated from the budget), and these were not properly

                                                           6

implemented.

Many Ukrainian ministries and other governmental agencies (e.g. Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, and
State Treasury) were planning or had already initiated restructuring/enhancement of their internal information
systems, business processes re-engineering, and introduction of some forms of electronic document flow.
Unfortunately, the lack of comprehensive strategy and lack of budget funds resulted in the fact that only few of
them used the E-Government approach and Internet-based solutions as the technological platform and basis for re-
designing of business processes. It meant that soon they would have to spend time and resources again to re-
design their systems to fit E-Government requirements. It was expected that, this cost could be minimized by
using E-Government-oriented approach applied or at least taken into account at the time.

In this context the development objective of the proposed project was to enhance efficiency of the Government's
decision-making process for public procurement and documentation flow, foster private sector development, and
strengthen civil society in Ukraine through the introduction of innovative models of Information and
Communication Technologies (ICT) solutions.

The Project was focused on three areas: E-Government, E-Business Environment, and Public-Private E-Dialogue.
The first component, E-Government, was to introduce e-procurement and e-documentation flow models, which
could substantially improve efficiency in Ukraine's public administration at the central and regional levels. The E-
Business Environment component was to create the legal and regulatory framework, which would allow on-line
transactions in Ukraine to be recognized as legally binding. This legal framework was to be based on best
practices and compatible with the EU standards. The third component, Public-Private E-Dialogue, was to develop
on-line models and tools for enhancing public involvement in the governance processes through active
participation in the development of public polices and regulatory decision making process.

The Project aimed at increasing the efficiency and transparency of the Government activities in the public
procurement and documentation flow areas by delivering responsive, cost-effective services to citizens,
businesses, and at involving civil society in the governance process. The project was to provide a wider, deeper
and longer-term perspective, by assessing the overall impact of the E-Government, E-Business and E-Dialogue
elements on the functioning and operation of the government and public. It was also intended to facilitate private
sector development by introducing more competition in public procurement of goods and services, and by
enabling on-line business transactions through appropriate legislative framework. The Project was also expected
to contribute to development of the legislative framework compatible to the applicable EU standards, while taking
into consideration the local conditions. This was an appropriate strategic choice, as its impact was expected to
benefit the development of infrastructure needed for e-government and e-commerce, online payments and
logistics systems. It was intended to have a positive impact on both public and private sector development, and
results in expansion of private sector participation.

The project was expected to be implemented over a period of thirty months (January 1, 2004 - June 30, 2006).
Ministry of Economy was the agency responsible for coordination of the Project activities with other Ministries,
state agencies, and regional administrations as well as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).



7. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation (main events leading to cancellation,
steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors, identification of causes and responsibility if project
failed, implications of failure):

The Project was initiated in late 2001 (the Concept Review took place on October 11, 2001) and approved by the
Board on May 6, 2003. The Loan and Project Agreements were signed on October 1, 2003, and became effective
on July 26, 2004. Long delays in signing and ratification of the Loan and critical interruptions in the procurement
process in late 2004/early 2005 were mostly related to political reasons and not to the Loan itself. In the hindsight,
these delays led to losing momentum in Project implementation.

                                                          7

There was relatively good progress in preparation of the documentation for procuring consulting services for
project implementation soon after Loan Effectiveness. In a relatively short time, revised Terms of Reference for
all three components were prepared and approved. However, processing of the Project suffered further delays
mostly due to the changes in the leadership of the MOE, who were responsible for the implementation of the E-
Development Project.

The MOE was also not able to establish an evaluation committee for procuring consulting services envisaged
under the Loan Agreement for a long time. Project implementation suffered a major setback during the processing
of the tenders for all three consulting contracts, particularly in terms of the progress with procurement of the first
component (Setting up Background for E-Government" and "Development of Legislative and Regulatory
Framework for the Introduction of Commercial Transactions On-Line"), critical for the success of the Project. The
Evaluation of the Technical Proposals for this component was presented to the Bank for no-objection twice, the
first time in September 2005. Due to serious procedural and evaluation flaws the Bank was unable to approve the
evaluation report. It should be noted that, the choice of procurement method used for this activity also led to the
procedural and evaluation flaws mentioned above. What should have been clearly procured using the International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures (Supply and Installation of Information Systems), was procured as a
consultancy service using the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure.

The Bank's concerns regarding the inability of the Borrower to proceed with the tender process in a reasonable
time-frame was brought to the attention of MOE many times, starting with the Aide-Memoire of March 2005. A
follow up letter was sent in November, 2005 to the Minister of Economy. In this letter, the Bank stated that
procurement for the major project components had progressed very slowly, due to many external and internal
factors, including due to the lack of capacity at the Project Implementation Unit. To accelerate implementation of
the project, the Bank proposed that by November 30, 2005, technical evaluation of the three main contracts for the
Project should be completed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Although a new evaluation committee was
established and the PIU prepared a new evaluation report for the component "Setting up Backgrounds for E-
Government" and "Development of Legislative and Regulatory Framework for the Introduction of Commercial
Transactions On-Line" before the deadline of November 30, 2005, due to a lapse in the procurement procedures
which occurred when the Bank received a compliant by one of the bidders that the PIU had failed to extend the
validity period of the proposals. This was subsequently confirmed by the PIU and the Bank was unable to approve
the Report. Under these circumstances, the procurement procedure had to be cancelled and re-tendered. In
addition, the PIU manager resigned due to ill health and the procurement specialist also resigned, as her salary
had not been paid for almost a year. This was to further jeopardize the proposed procurement activities and
implementation was further delayed. Thirty months after Board approval and 18 months after effectiveness, not a
single contract had been signed, and the chances of concluding the contracts within the next few months were
remote.

In light of the above, the Bank found the Borrower to be in breach of the Article II Section 3.01 (a) and (b) of the
Legal agreement, which states that "The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOE with due diligence and efficiency." and Schedule 5 point
1 which states that "The Borrower, through the MOE, shall maintain the PIU throughout the Project
implementation provided with financial and human resources adequate to enable it to carry out its responsibilities
under the Project". In view of the above, and pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement
and Section 6.02 (c) and (p) of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-
Spread Loans of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, the right of the Borrower to make further withdrawals from
Loan No. 4692-UA was suspended on December 23, 2005, and the Loan cancelled.

8. Assessment of Bank Performance (lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and
implementation assistance role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for ratings in Annex 2):
There was no quality at entry for this project. Only the front end fee of $50,000 and a few thousand dollars of the
$5 million Loan were disbursed. Based on the failed experiences gained with the implementation of other PSD

                                                           8

projects in Ukraine (delays in ratification, lack of commitment and decision making on the part of the Borrower),
the Bank team should have ensured a stronger Government commitment and taken more decisive actions earlier
on to resolve the issues or suspend disbursements and cancel the Loan, rather than wait for almost three years
before doing so. The fact that it took almost 15 months from Board approval to project ratification should have
alerted the Bank team of possible problems ahead, especially given the experience of the PSD project. The "S"
ratings for "IP" and PDO", through December 2004, was not justified, given progress (or lack of it) made up to
that point in time. Even as late as November 2005, the project was rated for both IP and PDO as MU, when it
should have been rated HU, as no progress was being made under the project on any of the components. The
Bank Team tried to rectify the situation and expedite project implementation on several occasion, however, the
lack of commitment on the Borrower's part hindered this process, ultimately leading to the suspension of
disbursements and the cancellation of the Loan.

In addition, the Bank did not recognize in time that the choice of procurement method agreed on for an important
component was not appropriate (see Para.7) and did not take the sufficient steps to change the method in time,
leading to problems in evaluation of the proposals. What should have been clearly procured using "International
Competitive Bidding (ICB)" procedure (Supply and Installation of Information Systems), was procured as a
consultancy contract using the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure. The selection of a winner
using the ICB procedure is based on "price", where the lowest evaluated bidder (once technical specifications
have been met) is the winner. Under the QCBS method, both quality and price are considered in the evaluation
process. This led to confusion on the part of the Borrower (in the evaluation process) and the Bank did not
recognize it in time and did not change the procedure.

Thus, the Bank performance overall was unsatisfactory.


10. Assessment of Borrower Performance (government and implementing agency performance, compliance
with covenants, justification for rating in Annex 2):

The Borrower's performance was highly unsatisfactory. Although, there may have been commitment during
project preparation, this commitment was not evident after the project was approved by the Bank Board. It took
almost 5 months to sign the Loan and Project Agreements and a further 10 months to have the project ratified by
Parliament. Once the Project was ratified by Parliament, the MOE was not able to establish an evaluation
committee for procuring consultancies envisaged under the project. This may have been partially due to changes
in leadership of the MOE. But even after an evaluation committee had been established in 2005 (almost two years
after Board approval), the project continued to have problems with procurement activities, due to either lack of
capacity at the PIU or failure to follow Bank procurement procedures. The Borrower also did not provide the
necessary funding or the man-power to have an efficient or an effective PIU, which further hindered project
implementation. Overall, the lack of commitment by the Borrower to expedite implementation of the project,
coupled with a weak PIU that was unable to effectively carry out its duties led the Bank to suspend disbursements
and cancel the Loan.


11. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application):
There are a few lessons that have emerged from this project that can be used to avoid similar circumstance in the
future:

    1.        Support of key high-ranking officials may be enough for project approval but is insufficient for
              implementation and the sustainability of outcomes, particular in countries with institutional
              challenges, such as Ukraine. The fact that the project was not ratified by Parliament for a long time
              was an indication that this broad-based consensus was missing. A deeper analysis to identify the
              extent of ownership across different government institutions in Ukraine might have helped to identify
              the key stakeholders of the project at an earlier stage, increasing the chances of successful project

                                                           9

    implementation. In addition, the failure to ratify the project for a long time should be viewed against
    a background of a rapidly deteriorating public procurement environment, which in a sense the project
    was trying to rectify. The time taken to ratify in a timely manner could have been due to pressure of
    various interest groups whose aim was to make public procurement less transparent and vulnerable to
    practices at odds with best international standards, which has been confirmed by the recent Country
    Procurement Assessment Report update and Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
    Assessment report on Ukraine;
2.  A fully functioning and staffed PIU and remunerated for their services is essential for effective and
    efficient project implementation. The PIU was not fully staffed and in some cases the salaries of the
    staff were not paid for over a year, although allocations were made under the Loan for these
    payments.
3.  The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that the first year's procurement documents were
    ready (PAD, page 22, item H, Readiness for Implementation), but it took almost till March 2005 till
    the first TORs were prepared and ready for tender. The TORs for the first year's procurement
    activities should have been prepared and agreed prior to Board approval. In addition, the Bank
    should have ensured that the agreed procurement methods are the most appropriate for the type of
    procurement envisaged under the project. This was not done and in this particular case, the project
    suffered as what should quite clearly been procured using a specific ICB procedure (Supply and
    Installation of Information Systems) was procured as a consultancy service using QCBS procedure
    and consequently led to repeated evaluation reports being rejected by the Bank.




                                                10

                                                  ANNEXES

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Assistance/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
          Names                       Title                         Unit         Responsibility/Specialty

Lending (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)

Andrei Mikhnev              Task Manager                  ECSPF
Victoria Siryachenko        Stakeholders Coordination
                            and Civil Society
Vladimir-Goran Kreacic      Private Sector
                            Development
Craig Neal                  Public Sector
                            Development
Cari Votava                 Business Processing
Vitaly Kazakov              Financial Management
Richard Gargrave            Procurement
Juan Navas-Sabater          Telecommunications
                            Specialist
Claudia Pardinas Ocana      Lawyer
Nicholay Chistyakov         Disbursement




Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs, if available)

Paulo Guilherme Correa      Senior Economist              ECSPF             Task Manager
Jean-Charles De Daruvar     Senior Counsel                LEGEC
Edward Daoud                Senior Finance Officer        LOAG1
Anna Wielogorska            Sr. Procurement Spec.         ECSPS
Olena Furusova              Operation Analyst             CEUTR
Galina S. Kuznetsova        Senior FMS                    ECSPS
Nicholay Chistyakov         Senior Finance Officer        LOAG1




(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs (if available) [all fields are pre-populated by the system]
            No.                  Date ISR archived            IP       PDO  Actual Disbursements (US$mil.)

             1                       06/18/2003               S         S                 0

             2                       12/18/2003               S         S                 0

             3                       06/15/2004               S         U                 0

             4                       12/22/2004               S         S              50,000

             5                       03/01/2005              MU        MU              50,000

             6                       03/17/2005              MU        MU              50,000

             7                       06/16/2005              MS        MS              50,000

             8                       11/04/2005              MU        MU              50,000

             9                       12/08/2006              HU        MU              50,000

                                                       11

(c) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
  Stage of Project Cycle   No. of staff weeks                                 US$
                                                              (incl. travel and consultants costs)

Lending (by FY)

FY02                                         21                              54.00

FY03                                         13                              48.81

FY04                                                                          0.00

FY05                                                                          0.00

FY06                                                                          0.00

FY07                                                                          0.00

                 TOTAL                       34                              102.81

Supervision/NCO (by FY)

FY02                                                                          0.00

FY03                                          3                               1.65

FY04                                          4                              47.67

FY05                                          7                              55.77

FY06                                         40                              47.55

FY07                                          6                              25.85

                 TOTAL                       60                              178.49




                                                   12

Annex 2. Borrower's Comments

(Unofficial translation)
                            MINISTRY OF ECONOMY OF UKRAINE

  Paul Bermingham                                                          March 23, 2006
  Director                                                                  #64-20/ 36
  Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova
  Europe and Central Asia
  World Bank


  Dear Mr. Bermingham:

  The Ministry of Economy has considered your letter of March 9, 2007 regarding the draft
  Memorandum on operation cancellation for the Ukraine E-development Project, which was closed
  on December 31, 2006, and deems it necessary to inform you that the MoE in February of 2007
  prepared a draft report entitled On the Results of Ukraine E-development Project Implementation,
  which was validated with the pertinent central executive-branch bodies without censorious remarks.

  Based on the draft Report, the central executive bodies agree that in 2002 through 2005 the reasons
  for non-achievement of the Project objectives were:
  Insufficient efficiency in managing the Project;
  Obsolescence of the Project Concept that was developed in 2001 and failed to consider the political,
  economic and legal transformations that occurred at the time of actual implementation of the Project
  (four years since then);
  The long period of the Project preparation (from the time of formulation of its concept in 1998 to the
  date of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement in 2003);
  The 2005 changes in public procurement legislation that resulted in the MoE losing the
  function relating to public procurement;
  The low institutional capacity to manage the Project, particularly on the part of the PMU, the
  complex and inefficient pattern of Project management, absence of clear distribution of
  responsibilities and obligations between the PMU and the key implementing agency.

  Regarding the evaluation of the Borrower's performance as referred to in the foregoing WB
  Memorandum, it will be noted that throughout 2006 the MoE on many occasions proposed to the
  World Bank that the Project and some of its components be restructured given the changes in public
  procurement legislation (letters #64-31/792 of Jan. 10, 2006, # 64-17/867 of April 5, 2006, # 64-
  17/892 of May 26, 2006, #64-18/972 of Oct.16, 2006), and this should be mentioned in the WB
  Memorandum.

  Slow response        to the problems arising    in the early phases of Project preparation and
  implementation, the overvaluation of the progress of the Project on the part of the WB and the
  Borrower at the time point, in the MoE`s opinion, to inadequate risk management by both the WB
  and the Borrower.




                                                  13

It would be sensible to point out in the conclusions the need for using the gained experience in the
future to set up, jointly with the MoE, a monitoring system and an efficient system for managing
risks, warning about problems and resolving them.

We hope our concerted efforts will continue to contribute to our fruitful cooperation, preparation of
the new Strategy of WB Partnership with Ukraine, which will be built on new principles and
comprehensive systemic concepts and help support the strategic areas of the Government's reforms
in ensuring the sustained economic development of this country.

Looking forward to our continued productive cooperation.


                                       Sincerely,

                                       (signed)
                                       V. Muntiyan
                                       Deputy Minister




Copied to: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.

(Translated by V. Aleksashyn)




                                               14

   Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents
   (In the Portal, each document can be linked to a file in IRIS or attach a new document)

1. Project Concept Note, [10/2001]
2. Project Appraisal Document, [04/2003]




                                                                 15

