                                                                        CONFORMED COPY




                                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4320-ES




                                    Loan Agreement


                              (Education Reform Project)


                                       between


                               REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR


                                         and


                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                Dated October 4, 1999

                                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4320-ES

                                    LOAN AGREEMENT

       AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR (the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

       (B)   by a letter dated March 6, 1998 from the Borrower to the Bank (the
Education Reform Program Letter), the Borrower has described the education reform
program, to be carried out in the period from 1999 to 2005, under the Borrower's
Ten-Year Education Reform Plan; and

       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                      ARTICLE I
                           General Conditions; Definitions

       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read:

             "(c)  No later than six months before the Closing Date, the Borrower
      shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
      detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
       operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan."

       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

       (a)   "Basic Education" means the education services provided in the Borrower's
territory for the first to the ninth grades of schooling;

       (b)   "Catholic School Council" means a council (Consejo Educativo Católico
Escolar) made up of parents, teachers, students and the school director responsible
for the management of a catholic school which receives subsidies from the Borrower;

       (c)   "Community Education Association" means an association (Asociación
Comunal para la Educación) established pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 7
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 17, 1995, for purposes of
participating in the provision of Preschool Education and Basic Education services;

       (d)   "Education Legislation" means National Education Law (Ley General de
Educación) published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 21, 1996, Ley de
la Carrera Docente (Teacher's Career Law) published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on March 22, 1996, and Reglamento Especial de las Asociaciones Comunales para la
Educación (Regulations for the Community Education Associations ) published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 17, 1995;

       (e)   "EDUCO" means the Borrower's program of community operated schools for
the provision of Preschool Education and Basic Education;

       (f)   "EDUCO Parent School" means any school (escuela de padres) which offers
in-service training for parents in areas such as physical care, health, nutrition and
early stimulation of motor and cognitive skills under EDUCO;

       (g)   "FIS" means Fondo de Inversión Social de El Salvador, the Borrower's
social investment and local development fund, established pursuant to Decree No. 610
published in the Official Gazette on November 16, 1990, as amended by Decree No. 826
of September 1996;

       (h)   "FIS Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FIS pursuant to Section 3.06 (a) of this agreement;

       (i)   "Formative Extracurricular Activity" means any pedagogical, cultural
and/or athletic activity proposed by the students aimed to improve student learning
and participation at school, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual;

       (j)   "Indicators" means the monitoring and evaluation indicators set forth in
the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;

       (k)   "Initial Education" means the education of children not older than four
years of age by their parents with the assistance of community educators with a view
to improving the children's preparation for Basic Education;

       (l)   "MINED" means Ministerio de Educación, the Borrower's Ministry of
Education;

       (m)   "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, describing the criteria and
procedures for implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;

       (n)   "Preschool Education" means the education services provided in the
Borrower's territory for children who are four to six years old;

       (o)   "Procurement Agent" means the firm of procurement agents referred to in
Section I Part B.2 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

       (p)   "School Council" means a council (Consejo Directivo Escolar) ,
established pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 665 published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on March 22, 1996, for the management of a public school, which is
made up of parents, teachers, students and the school director;

       (q)   "School Grants" means grants (Bonos Escolares) to be made by the Borrower
to Community Education Associations, School Councils and Catholic School Councils for
the purpose of financing Basic Education school initiatives to improve school
performance, including materials, supplies, equipment, and operational and maintenance
expenditures; and

       (r)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.

                                       ARTICLE II

                                        The Loan

       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty
eight million Dollars ($88,000,000).

       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.

       (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank or a commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event
the account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

      (b)    For the purposes of this section:

             (i)     "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the
                     date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest
                     Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment
                     Date.

             (ii)    "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06
                     of this Agreement.

             (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London
                     interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value
                     the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
                     initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
                     occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest
                     Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                     percentage per annum.

             (iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half
                    of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted
                    average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
                    London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for
                    six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                    borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
                    single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include
             the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
      percentage per annum.

      (c)    The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

       (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months notice to the Borrower
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

       Section 2.06. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on
June 15 and December 15 in each year.

       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

       Section 2.08. The Borrower's Minister of Education, and any person designated by
him or her in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

                                     ARTICLE III

                               Execution of the Project

       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project, through MINED, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, educational and pedagogical
practices, and in accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

       (b)   Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, operate and
maintain, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a revolving fund in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with a quarterly balance equivalent to the
funding requirements for the next three months of Project activities as provided in
the annual budget referred to in Section 3.04 (c) to this Agreement.

       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works, printing services and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

       Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

       (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to
Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and

       (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:

       (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

       (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish
to the Bank on May 31 of each year, commencing on May 31, 2000, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the twelve-month period preceding the date of said report;

       (c)   in each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) above, also recommend
the measures to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, including a budget for the carrying out of the Project in the
succeeding calendar year, and an investment plan for, and the targets to be achieved
in, the implementation of the Project during the twelve-month period succeeding the
date of said report;

       (d)   review with the Bank, by September 30 of each year during the execution
of the Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to
in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank
views on the matter; and

       (e)   without limitation to the provisions of the preceding paragraphs,
furnish, not later than July 31, 2000, to the Bank, for comments, the results of an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the School Grants program under Part C.2 of the
Project.

       Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall continue to maintain within MINED, until the completion
of the Project, a project management office with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia: (a) coordination of the
implementation of the Project; (b) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (c)
preparation of the plan referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement and the
reports referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and 9.07 (c) of the General
Conditions; and (d) processing of the documentation required for disbursement of Loan
proceeds.

       Section 3.06 (a) The Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an agreement
with FIS, under the terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the
implementation of Part B.6 of the Project.

       (b)   Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower may employ additional implementing agencies for carrying out Part B.6 of
the Project. Such implementing agencies shall be employed subject to the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                       ARTICLE IV

                                   Financial Covenants

       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.

      (b)    The Borrower shall:

             (i)     have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in
                     paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the
                     Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                     auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied,
                     by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

             (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
                    later than six months after the end of each such year: (A)
                    certified copies of the financial statements referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B)
                    an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and
             a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
             detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

             (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors,
             as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.

       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

             (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
                     (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                     expenditures;

             (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
                     audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                     the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                     invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                     expenditures;

             (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and

             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
                    audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
             as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
      fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
      involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
      related withdrawals.

                                         ARTICLE V

                                  Remedies of the Bank

       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Education Legislation or any
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or
failed to be enforced so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations set forth or
referred to in this Agreement.

       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                       ARTICLE VI
                              Effective Date; Termination

       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)    the Operational Manual has been adopted by MINED;

       (b)   the revolving fund referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement has
been established and an amount of $500,000 equivalent shall have been deposited
therein;

       (c)    the FIS Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into by the
parties thereto under the terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and

       (d)   the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement has been established.

       Section 6.02. The date December 31, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                      ARTICLE VII

                       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

       Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

             Ministry of Finance
             Blvd. de los Héroes
             San Salvador, El Salvador

                                                Telex:
                                                      301 202 45

      For the Bank:

             International Bank for Reconstruction
               and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America

             Cable address:                           Telex:

                      INTBAFRAD                       248423 (MCI) or
                      Washington, D.C.                 64145 (MCI)

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.



                            REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR



                            By /s/ Ana Evelyn Jacir de Lovo
                                                                        Authorized Representative



                            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                            By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                                                                  Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                Latin American and the Caribbean

                                           SCHEDULE 1

                          Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                   Amount of the
                                   Loan Allocated                        % of
                                   (Expressed in               Expenditures
      Category                        Dollars)                        to be Financed

(1)   Civil Works                        15,000,000            85%

(2)   Equipment, vehicles       3,000,000             100% of foreign
      and furniture                                          expenditures and
                                                                    87% of local
                                                                    expenditures

(3)   Consultants' services               6,000,000            100%
      (including Procurement
      Agents)

(4)   Training                           15,000,000            100%

(5)   Books and printing       20,000,000             100% of foreign
      services                                                     expenditures and
                                                                   87% of local
                                                                   expenditures

(6)   MINED's                             1,000,000            75% until
         fixed-term staff                                    disbursements under
                                                             this Category shall have
                                                             reached an aggregate
                                                             amount equal to
                                                             $250,000; 50% until
                                                             disbursements under
                                                                    this Category shall
have                                                                reached aggregate
amount
                                                             equal to $600,000; and
                                                             30% thereafter

(7)      Incremental                   19,000,000            75% until
         operating costs                                     disbursements under
                                                             this Category shall have
                                                             reached an aggregate
                                                             amount equal to
                                                             $8,000,000; 50% until
                                                             disbursements under this
                                                             Category shall have
reached
                                                             aggregate amount equal to
                                                             $14,000,000; and
                                                             30% thereafter

(8)      Unallocated                    9,000,000

            TOTAL                      88,000,000

2.       For the purposes of this Schedule:

       (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

       (c)   the term "training includes the cost of training services, rental of
space and equipment, travel costs and per diem of MINED's staff providing training and
of participants and/or recipients of training, training materials, trainees'
registration fees, and other costs related to the carrying out of the training, study
tours, seminars and meetings under Parts B.3, C.1 and C.2 of the Project;

       (d)   the term "MINED"s fixed-term staff" means the remuneration paid, on a
declining basis, to staff employed by MINED for the implementation of the Project; and

       (e)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses
incurred on account of Project implementation, office supplies, vehicle and equipment
operation and maintenance, travel and per diems related to Project supervision,
salaries of teachers, School Grants and expenses incurred on account of Formative
Extracurricular Activities.

3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods (other than vehicles) and
printing services under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent, except those
referred to in Part D.2 (c) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) vehicles
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (c) works under contracts
costing less than $500,000 equivalent, except the first two contracts awarded pursuant
to the provisions of Part C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (d)
training activities; (e) incremental operating costs; (f) MINED's fixed-term staff;
(g) consulting firms (other than procurement agents) under contracts costing less than
$100,000 equivalent; and (h) individual consultants under contracts costing less than
$50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.

                                        SCHEDULE 2

                                Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand coverage of Preschool Education
and Basic Education; (b) to improve the quality of Preschool Education and Basic
Education; and (c) to strengthen and modernize the Borrower's institutional capacity
to provide education services.

       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:      Expansion of Access to Preschool and Basic Education

1.     Establishment of EDUCO schools, including the provision of equipment and
furniture required therefor and the payment of teachers' salaries on a declining
basis.

2.     (a)   Development and carrying out of a pilot program for promotion of Initial
Education, based on the EDUCO parent school model (escuela de padres) targeted to poor
children in rural and marginal urban areas; and (b) strengthening of the existing
EDUCO Parent School program.

3.     (a)   Establishment of accelerated education methodologies to address specific
problems and needs of over-age students; (b) Strengthening of the multi-grade program
(aulas alternativas) in communities with a low number of school-age children, high
desertion and/or repetition rates; and (c) Development of teaching materials and a
special promotion system therefor.

Part B:       Improvement of Quality in Initial, Preschool and Basic Education

1.     (a)   Review and design of the curriculum for: (i) Initial Education; (ii)
special education for handicapped and gifted students; and (iii) accelerated education
programs for over-age students; (b) review, design and provision of: (i) educational
materials for Preschool Education and Basic Education teachers and students; (ii)
textbooks, equipment and educational materials for Preschool Education and Basic
Education classrooms; and (iii) books for public and school libraries.

2.     Development and carrying out of a pilot program (Fondo Alegría) to support
Formative Extracurricular Activities for students in marginal urban areas in the
Borrower's territory.

3.     Strengthening of training programs for in-service and pre-service Preschool
Education and Basic Education teachers, and provision of in-service training programs
for Preschool Education and Basic Education teachers, school principals and
supervisors.

4.     Strengthening of MINED's capacity to improve the national evaluation system to
measure: (a) the achievements of Preschool Education and Basic Education students; and
(b) the impact of the Project in the Borrower's education system.

5.     Evaluation of, and support (including training of teachers) to, the existing
school health and nutrition programs (escuela saludable).

6.     Construction and rehabilitation of EDUCO school facilities and implementation of
preventive maintenance programs for each of them.

Part C:       Institutional   Strengthening and Modernization of MINED

1.     Strengthening of the managerial capacity and institutional reform at the central
and departmental levels of the Borrower's government by: (i) providing technical
assistance; (ii) revising MINED's operations manual; (iii) promoting staff
development activities for personnel at the central and departmental levels; and (iv)
developing a financial planing and monitoring system.

2.     Promotion of greater autonomy in rural and urban schools, by strengthening the
management capabilities of Community Education Associations, School Councils and
Catholic School Councils through the provision of: (i) technical assistance; (ii)
training of teachers, principals, supervisors and members of such Associations and
Councils; (iii) training materials; and (iv) School Grants.

3.     Carrying out of public communication strategies to strengthen the support for
and public awareness of the program described in the Education Reform Program Letter.
Part D:          Administration, monitoring, and evaluation of the Project
       Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of MINED's
capacity to carry out, monitor and evaluate the Project.

                                           * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.

                                         SCHEDULE 3

                                   Amortization Schedule

                                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Done                                   (expressed in Dollars)*

December   15, 2003                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2004                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2004                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2005                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2005                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2006                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2006                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2007                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2007                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2008                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2008                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2009                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2009                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2010                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2010                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2011                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2011                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2012                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2012                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2013                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2013                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2014                                          3,665.000
December   15, 2014                                             3,665.000
June 15,   2015                                          3,705,000

       TOTAL:                                          88,000,000

_____________________________________

*      The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

                                         SCHEDULE 4

                                        Procurement

Section I.      Procurement of Goods, Works and Printing Services

Part A:         General

       Goods, works and printing services shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996
and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.

Part B:         International Competitive Bidding

1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (other than
vehicles) and printing services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.

2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods and printing services to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
      (a)    Grouping of Contracts
       To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.

      (b)    Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods

       The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

      (c)    Procurement Agent

       For the purpose of handling all the procurement under this Part B, the Borrower
through MINED shall employ a Procurement Agent. Such agent shall be employed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.10 of the Guidelines defined in Section
II, Part A of this Schedule.

Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Limited International Bidding

       Vehicles estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.

2.    National Competitive Bidding

       (a)   Works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

       (b)   Goods and printing services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 but $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
$340,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

       In the procurement of works, printing services and goods in accordance with this
Part C.2, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    International Shopping

       Computing equipment, software and vehicles estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent
in respect of computing equipment and software, and $20,000 equivalent in respect of
vehicles, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.

4.    National Shopping

       Goods (other than computing equipment, software and vehicles) and printing
services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $275,000 equivalent in respect of goods and $340,000 equivalent in
respect of printing services, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.

5.    Direct Contracting

       Books estimated to cost less than $4,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,200,000 equivalent in respect of books may, with the
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7
of the Guidelines.

6.    Procurement of Small Works

       Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $5,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to complete the contract successfully.

Part D:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods, works and printing services shall be undertaken
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

       With respect to: (a) each contract awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts
B.1 and C.1 hereof; (b) the first two contracts for works and any contract for works
costing more than $500,000 equivalent awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2
hereof; and (c) the first contract for goods and printing services awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Part C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.    Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

Part A:       General
       Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section
II of this Schedule.

Part B:       Quality- and Cost-based Selection

1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

2.     The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:       Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

1.    Least-Cost Selection

       Consultants' services for the supervision of works under Part B.6 of the Project
and for auditing services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $2,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines.

2.    Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications

       Consultants' services (other than those referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part
C) and Procurement Agents' services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,640,600 equivalent, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of
the Consultant Guidelines.

3.    Individual Consultants
       Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of $2,566,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:      Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.    Selection Planning

       Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

       (a)   With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each implementing agency
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of the Loan Agreement , the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

       (b)   With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded
only after said approval shall have been given.

3.    Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignment
shall be subject to the Bank's prior approval.

                                      SCHEDULE 5

                                   Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $10,000,000 to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of
$7,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of
$15,000,000.

2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

       (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

             (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
                    furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
                    furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                    basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                    Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                    Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                    and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
             to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
             expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
             from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
             and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
             justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

       (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

       (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

       (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

       (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.     (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.

       (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

       (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
