Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17415-ES
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 88.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
April 14, 1998
Human Development Sector Group (LCSHD)
Central America Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Col6n
US$1.00  8.70 Colones
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1998)
Fiscal Year                          Academic Year
1 January - 31 December                 15 Januarv - 31 October
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACE           - Community Education Association (Asociaci6n Comunal para la Educaci6n)
APL           - Adaptable Program Lending
BEMP          - Basic Education Modernization Project
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
CDE           - School Council (Consejo Directivo Escolar)
CECE          - School Council for Catholic schools (Consejo Educativo Cat6lico Escolar)
CONIACORE  - National Commission of Education (Comisicn Nacional de Coordinacibn Educativa)
DNA           - National Directorate of Administration (Direccion Nacional de Administraci6n)
EDUCO         - Community-managed Schools Program (Educaci6n con Participacion de la Comunidad)
FEPADE        - Business Foundation for Educational Development (Fundaci6n Empresarial para el Desarrollo
Educativo)
FIS           - Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FUNDASALVA- Anti-drug Foundation of El Salvador (Fundaci6n Antidrogas de El Salvador)
FUSADES       - Salvadoran Foundation for Economic and Social Development (Fuindacibn Salvadorena para el
Desorrollo Econ6mico y Social)
GDP           - Gross domestic product
GNP           - Gross national product
GOES          - Government of El Salvador
IBRD          - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           - Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDB           - Inter-American Development Bank
MINED         - Ministry of Education
SABE          - Strengthening Achievement in Basic Education (Fortalecimiento del Alcance de la Educacibn Baisica)
UACL          - Procurement, Contracts and Logistics Unit (Unidad de Adquisiciones, Contrataciones y Logistica)
UCA           - Universidad Centroamericana (Central American University)
UNDP          - United Nations Development Programme
USAID         - United States Agency for International Development
USEFI         - Finance Sector Unit for International Cooperation (Unidad de Sector Financiero)
Vice President:      Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Sector Leader:  Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Manager:        Madalena dos Santos



El Salvador
Education Reform Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
A. Project Development Objectives .................................................................                                                       2
1. Program  and Project development objectives and key performance indicators                                         ................        2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project    .........                                               4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................                               4
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..............                             ....................        5
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................                                                         6
1. Project components ..................................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project ........................................                                    7
3. Benefits and target population ........................                          .........................................                 7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................                               7
D). Project Rationale ..................................................................8
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection .................................................                                 8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .............                                                9
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design ...............................................                                    9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ......................................................                                   10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................................                             10
E. Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                                           11
1. Economic .................................................................                                                                11
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                11
3. Technical .................................................................                                                               11
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                            12
5. Social ................................................................                                                                   12
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                                                12
7. Participatory approach ................................................................                                                   12
F.  Sustainability  and Risks.................................................................................................13
1. Sustainability ............................................................                                                              13
2.  Critical risks ............................................................                                                              13
3. Possible controversial aspects ............................................................                                               14
G. Main Loan Conditions .................................................................                                                               14
1. Negotiations Conditions: .................................................................                                               14
2. Effectiveness Conditions .................................................................                                                14
H. Readiness for Implementation ..................................................................                                                      14
I.  Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................................                                                     14



Paee No.
Annexes ....                                                                                 15
Annex 1. Project Design Summary. .                                                            15
Annex 2A. Project Description                                                                 22
Annex 2B. Phasing of the Education Reform Prograrn .32
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .35
Annex 4.  Economic Analysis and Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary.                               3 6
Annex 5. Financial Analysis .42
Annex 6. Social Assessment .45
Annex 7.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                          47
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .47
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review    .  .49
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds     .52
Annex 8. Project Processing Budget and Schedule        ..54
Annex 9. Supplemental Data                ..55
Annex 10. Documents in Project File           ..58
Annex 1 1. Statement of Loans and Credits..                                                  5 9
Annex 12. El Salvador at a Glance           ..60
Annex 13. Policy Letter from the Government of El Salvador    ..62
Map - IBRD 27212



El Salvador
Education Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCSHD
Date: 14 April 1998                                          Task Manager: Madalena dos Santos
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                       Country Sector Leader: Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project ID: 50612          Sector: Education                  Project Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending histrument: Adaptable Program Lending                Program of Targeted Intervention:    [x ] Yes   [   No
Project Financing Data (US$M)                                                              Sources of Financing
~~~~~~~~~~.    ............... ................                                                  ..............................................  
.~~~~APL.(phases)                                     Total Cost                 GoenetIBRD)
..........    6 ................................................................................................. ............................................................................AL ( h s s.Tt l o t. G ve n e t .I R
Phase I (1999-2001)                                          119.1                      31.1                  88.0
Phase 11 (2002-2003)                                         95.3                       38.3                  57.0
Phase III (2004-2005)                                        40.2                        18.2                 22.0
Program Cost .              254.6                       87.6                 167.0
Project Financing Data (Phase I)                [X] Loan         [  Credit    [  Guarantee             [  Other
Amount: US$88.0 million
Proposed terms:                                    [    Multicurrency        [XI  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):  5                     [    Standard Variable  []   Fixed               [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                     Local                Foreign             Total
Government                                                                 31.1                    -                31.1
IBRD/IDA                                                                   51.2                  36.8               88.0
Total             82.3                 36.8              119.1
Borrower: Republic of El Salvador (GOES)
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Education (MINED)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                   1999         2000      2001    2002
Annual         21.0        36.0       23.0       8.0
Cumulative         21.0        57.0        80.0    88.0
Project implementation period: 3 years   Expected effectiveness date: October 5, 1998    Closing date: June 30, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 2
Country: El Salvador                                                            Project Title: Education Reform
A: Project Development Objectives
Program and Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1): As El Salvador's civil war
drew to a close at the start of this decade, the Government embarked on an aggressive program to extend basic education
to all children in the country, especially those in rural areas that simply had never had schools or whose educational
services had been disrupted by the war. An innovative strategy of community-managed schooling was adopted, and the
"EDUCO" program was launched with World Bank support under the Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (3348-ES).
Over the next several years, as EDUCO expanded, the Ministry of Education also undertook many activities to improve
and monitor quality; the USAID-financed Strengthening Achievement in Basic Education (SABE) project supported this
process, as did financial and technical assistance from various other donors. As EDUCO began to achieve results, interest
in decentralization of authority and accountability, and active parent involvement in school management, also spread to
the more traditional system, with the result that the policies piloted under EDUCO soon began to be mainstreamed. The
work developed by the 1994 National Commission for Education, Science and Development (Comision Nacional de
Educaci6n, Ciencia y Desarrollo) helped to build public support and to nurture the permanent dialogue established by
MINED with teachers, parents and students, education sector stakeholders, and civil society as a whole. As a result of this
intensive consultation process, a Ten-Year Education Plan (1995-2005) was developed, with the World Bank and Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) cofinancing the Basic Education Modernization Project (IBRD 3945-ES) to support
the first phase of the Plan. Expansion of coverage, quality improvement measures, decentralization of education
management, and community participation through the Community Education Associations (ACEs), School Councils
(CDEs) and Catholic School Councils (CECEs) have boosted enrollments and increased accountability at all levels.
Implementation of the Basic Education Modernization Project is proving extremely successful, and it is now expected to
be completed in December 1998, two years ahead of schedule.
The Program (see Government's policy letter regarding the Education Reform Program in Annex 13): The World Bank's
education team for El Salvador has supported MINED authorities in designing a comprehensive Education Reform
Program to support the remaining period of the Government's Ten-Year Education Plan (1995-2005), for which the Bank
will provide assistance through a new Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation. Looking beyond access to primary
schoolingper se, the Program seeks to achieve an overall goal of ensuring that at least 90% of the children in El Salvador
successfully complete basic education (grades 1-9) by the year 2005. The Program is designed to achieve this by: (a)
increasing access to initial and preschool education for children in the poorest areas of the country as a tool to advance
school readiness and completion of later years of schooling; (b) expanding the system to enable enrollment of students in
the full nine-year basic education program, with emphasis on the poorest rural and marginal urban areas which do not
presently have sufficient capacity to absorb all school-age children; (c) improving the quality of education at all levels
through: (i) curriculum development activities, (ii) provision of textbooks and instructional materials, (iii) teacher
development activities, including pre-service and in-service training programs and incentives for teachers; (d) developing
school-based management strategies to increase accountability and school performance; (e) promoting an effective
decentralized decision-making process through the participation of Community Education Associations (ACEs) in rural
areas, and School Councils (CDEs and CECEs) in urban schools; and (f) supporting institutional strengthening activities
at all levels to increase efficiency, equity and quality in service delivery.
To reach these goals, the Education Reform Program will implement, over a period of seven years, a phased approach of
progressive expansion of the education activities piloted during the first phase of the Program itself, or in previous
projects. The Program would tentatively consist of three phases:
a) Phase 1 (1999-2001) will: (i) develop an initial education program in the rural and marginal urban areas, on a pilot
basis; (ii) design and pilot an accelerated education program to address age-grade distortions and work them out of
the system; (iii) increase the access to basic education in rural areas through EDUCO; and (iv) continue the quality
improvements to basic education initiated under the Basic Education Modernization Project (Loan 3945-ES).
b) Phase 11 (2002-2003) covers the expansion of the innovative programs successfully piloted in the first phase, and the
orderly expansion of basic education opportunities and quality improvements.
c) Phase III (2004-2005) continues the expansion of programs and quality improvements to achieve the final targets of
the Ten-Year Education Plan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 3
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
Key performance indicators of progress towards Program objectives will be measured through a monitoring and evaluation
scheme focusing on: (a) the effectiveness of ACEs in managing rural schools and CDEs and CECEs in the urban schools;
(b) achievement of EDUCO targets; (c) the assurance of minimum standards for school operation, measured by the
existence of adequate infrastructure, equipment and furniture, human resources, textbooks and pedagogical materials; (d)
the successful development of the pilot initial education program; (e) the successful implementation of the accelerated
program for over-age students; and (f) the adequacy of public expenditures in the education sector.
All phases of the proposed APL will respond to the same fundamental development objectives established in the ongoing
Basic Education Modernization Project, through targeted investments and gradual expansion of successful pilot activities
and innovative approaches.  Each subsequent phase of the Program will be subject to comprehensive appraisal,
incorporating the evaluation findings on completion, experience and lessons learned under the previous phase. The Program
approach will allow for a more flexible project design and financing that can be reviewed and adapted over time. Key
trigger indicators for sector policy and implementation progress have been defined (see Annex 2B).
The Project: The project development objectives reflect the Program goals of promoting greater equity, quality, and
efficiency in the provision of education services, towards the target of ensuring that, by 2005, at least 90% of children from
the poorest rural and marginal urban areas in El Salvador are able to successfully complete basic education (grades 1-9).
The project will support Phase I(1999 - 2001) ofthe seven-year program. Specifically, the project seeks to:
a) Expand coverage of preschool and basic education for low-income students, especially in remote rural and marginal
urban areas through: (i) establishment of additional EDUCO sections (new and expanded) for preschool and basic
education in rural areas, including provision of infrastructure and payment of teachers on a declining basis; (ii)
development of a pilot Initial Education program (ages 0 to 3) targeted to poor children in rural areas, through
EDUCO's parent schools (escuela de padres), with a view to strengthening the home environment and increasing
children's physical, social and psychological readiness for school; and (iii) establishment of alternative education
methodologies to address specific needs of over-age students and communities with a low number of school-age
children, and high desertion and/or repetition rates, thereby encouraging re-enrollment and improving student flows.
b) Improve quality through: (i) review of curriculum for initial and special education, basic education for adults and
accelerated programs; (ii) provision of teaching and learning materials, textbooks, a quality improvement fund (Fondo
Alegria) and public, school, classroom and specialized libraries; (iii) improvement of pre-service and in-service teacher
training; (iv) strengthening of the basic education national assessment system; (v) improvement of school health and
nutrition programs for low-income students; and (vi) rehabilitation and construction to upgrade schools functioning in
precarious or temporary sites, and provision of equipment and furniture.
c) Promote continued institutional strengthening and modernization by: (i) strengthening of managerial capacity in
basic education at the national, departmental and district levels and improved information sharing within MINED at all
levels, thus extending the substantial institutional reform work carried out within MINED over the past several years;
(ii) improvement of procedures, training and tools for ACEs, CDEs and CECEs to promote greater school autonomy;
and (iii) communication strategies to increase public awareness of and support for the basic education reform.
This first phase will be assessed on the basis of the performance indicators defined in the Annex 1. These, together with an
and the additional assessment of policy choices adopted during Phase I, will determine the pace of expansion of the
program. The policy choices relate mainly to the system's capacity to disseminate the initial education program (item a(ii)
above) and the effectiveness of the education alternatives in addressing problems of age-grade distortion (item a(iii)) above



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 4
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS Report No. 16307, discussed by the Board on March 6, 1997.
The 1997 CAS indicates that human development, especially through expansion and strengthening of the education system,
is a central priority of the Bank's assistance program for El Salvador. About two-thirds of the labor force is unskilled, with
an average of only 4.4 years of education; about one-fourth has no formal education; and only 12% has more than 10 years
of schooling. The Government has appropriately focused on basic education, consistent with the recommendations of the
Poverty Assessment (Report No. 12315-ES) and other education sector studies. Since the beginning of this decade, the
Government has made great progress in rehabilitating the education system, which was severely affected by over a decade
of civil conflict. The key to this rehabilitation has been the community-managed EDUCO program, which has not only
improved the delivery of basic education services in rural areas, but has also stimulated profound changes in the approach
to education administration and school management more generally in El Salvador. To consolidate peace, support growth
in an increasingly globalized economy and achieve a sustainable reduction in poverty, the Government is committed to
providing universal basic education for all students in the country and to ensuring that they are able not only to enter but to
complete this level of schooling. The CAS also indicates that achieving these goals will require increased public spending
on the social sectors (expenditures have increased from 1.8% of GDP in 1991 to 2.6% in 1997, but are still low),
strengthening of local governments, improved cost effectiveness, increased private sector participation, a more relevant
cumculum, and greater attention to gender issues in the education system. The APL, and specifically the proposed Phase I
project, is directly supportive of the CAS objectives.
2 Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Since the end of the civil war in El Salvador, the Government initiated policy reforms aimed at restoring macroeconomic
balances and promoting growth, and rehabilitating the public sector's capacity to manage and deliver social services. The
results have been particularly impressive in the education sector, particularly at the basic education level and most
especially in rural areas. Nonetheless, there are still important issues which will require attention over the next several
years, in order to achieve the goal of having an education system that is fully effective in supporting the economic and social
development of the country.
Incomplete coverageG Net enrollment rates for basic education increased to 86% in 1997,1 but there are significant groups
of children who are still not enrolled, especially in marginal urban centers and in the most remote rural areas. The goal of
the Ten-Year Education Plan is to achieve a net enrollment of 90 percent for the full nine grades of basic education by the
year 2005.
High dropout and age-grade distortion. Promotion rates have improved significantly, from 77% in 1989 to 92% in 1996,
but dropout rates are still high (14.3% in first grade, and 4.5% overall in basic education). In addition, as a result of late
entrance to schooling, dropout and repetition, some 20% of the students enrolled in basic education are at least two years
older than the corresponding age for their grade (see Annex 9). The Ten-Year Education Plan sets as targets to bring the
dropout rate down to 2% and to reduce age-grade distortion from 20% to 10%, by the year 2005.
Lack of adequate infrastructure. The reform program to date has focused on delivery of educational services, with
infrastructure investments lagging behind. In the face of scarce budgetary resources, it clearly made sense to give priority
to training of teachers, parents and administrators, and the provision of textbooks and other educational materials and
supplies, and simply to offer classes in whatever physical facilities were available. However, at this stage many school
buildings are seriously deteriorated due to the earthquake, the civil conflict and natural aging, and approximately 5 8% of all
basic education schools need some sort of rehabilitation. In addition, the rapid expansion of the EDUCO program,
responsible for the significant increase of access to education in rural areas, has led to the establishment of 378 makeshift
schools with inadequate facilities. Thus, 22% of all EDUCO and mixed EDUCO schools with both EDUCO and traditional
programs) do not have adequate infrastructure. To meet the goals of The Ten-Year Education Plan and the continued
'Net enrollment rate for grades 1 - 6 is 85.5%.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 5
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Education Reform
demand for the extension of schooling beyond the first four grades, an expansion and improvement of facilities is required:
Insufficient initial education programs. Despite the fact that this education level is legally established and recognized,
and MINED is responsible for overseeing its development, priorities at other levels have taken precedence. With expansion
of coverage for basic education in rural areas and improvements in the quality of education well underway, it is time to tum
attention to initial education. Enrollment rates are lower and dropout rates are higher in rural areas. A program focused on
parent participation would encourage early entrance of children into the formal school system and greater permanence of
children in the system, thereby helping to ensure the success of the national education reform program. One of the
strategies to improve equity in education set forth in The Ten-Year Education Plan is to increase enrollment at the pre-
school level from 40% to 60%.
Youth alienation and violence. A dramatic rise in youth alienation and violence poses a direct threat to El Salvador's
newly established and politically integrated civic society and an improving economy. Youth alienation, which leads to much
of the violence, is reflected in the number of students who drop out of school to seek work or move from rural to urban
areas in search of better opportunities. In the cases of school violence, teachers and principals lacking in conflict resolution
skills often contribute to the problem by permanently suspending students. These factors in turn lead to increasing numbers
of unskilled youth, often without family support, who are using whatever means available to survive. A fund to support
special quality improvement activities defined by the students themselves (Fondo Alegria) would increase students'
participation in their own schooling experience, offering positive solutions and encouraging them to stay in school.
Low student achievement level. MINED has made significant progress in establishing a national evaluation system and in
using achievement tests to measure the learning status of students in the education system. Although some education
programs have demonstrated significant improvements in the learning level of students, EDUCO in particular, the tests
nonetheless indicate that El Salvadoran student achievement levels are still quite low compared with international results.
The Ten-Year Education Plan sets as one of its goals improvement in student performance, as measured by the National
Evaluation System.
Insufficient systematization of data. MINED has made notable efforts to improve its information system (MIS), but data
collection and management are still not performed in a sufficiently systematic fashion. This reduces the reliability of the
information and impairs the results of time-series analyses and impact evaluations. The Ministry has set a goal of
strengthening its MIS, to improve its usefulness for both policy and management decisions.
Institutional modernization. The process of institutional modernization that MINED is undergoing has made important
advances, but there is still considerable scope for further integration and improvement in the efficiency of administrative
processes, thereby offering better conditions and results to schools at the local level. Special emphasis on communication
strategies will improve sharing of information and coordination within MINED and maintain public support for the national
education reform program.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Coverage. Phase I of the APL, to be supported by the project, aims to achieve universal provision of the first three years of
basic education. Emphasis will be placed on:
*  creating greater opportunities for initial and basic education in rural and marginal urban areas as a, means of motivating
low-income children to enroll in school at a younger age and positively influencing their success in later school
programs and activities;
*  establishing accelerated programs for over-age students living in more remote rural areas and/or unable to attend
regular classes because they need to work; and
* expanding and improving alternative multigrade classrooms to facilitate availability of the full cycle of basic education
(grades 1-9) in rural areas.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 6
Country: El Salvador                                                                     Project Title: Education Reform
Quality:
* Pre-service and in-service teacher training will be improved and curriculum reforrns will be reviewed and followed up.
* A fund will be established in basic schools (Fondo Alegria) to support quality improvement activities, to be defined by
students.
* A national evaluation system will monitor quality for students enrolled in all public basic education schools.
* Improved data collection, storage and management will allow for effective impact evaluations and time-series analyses
of various education indicators, thereby providing the tools for improved management and policy making in the sector.
* Infrastructure rehabilitation will target EDUCO schools, and a preventive maintenance program will ensure proper care
of all school facilities (EDUCO and traditional schools).
Management of basic education:
*  Institutional strengthening and modernization will focus on strengthening the process of decentralization of school
management to local ACEs, CDEs and CECEs.
*  The project will support increased participation and partnership of the private sector, local communities and sub-
national levels of government (departrnents and districts) in the education system.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                         Category     Cost Incl.   % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies .Total  financing    Bank-
,   (US$M)    ___ . (US$M)  financing
Expansion of Access and Coverage:                                          23.9   20%/.      19.0 .    80%
Institution
*  EDUCO sections (new and expanded)                    building
.  Initial Education Program in rural areas through parent  policy
schools (escuelas de padres)
* Accelerated programs and alternative (multigrade)
classrooms
Quality Improvements:                                   Physical           51.8   43% /      46.5       90%
.  Curriculum                                          institution
.  Educational matenals for teachers and students,     building
textbooks, equipment and library books           ,
* Fondo Alegria, a fund for quality improvement activities
defined by students
* Training programs for teachers and other education
agents (principals, supervisors, trainers, etc.)
* National Evaluation System
.  School health and nutrition programs
. Construction and rehabilitation of physical infrastructure,
furniture and equipment, preventive maintenance
program
Institutional Strengthening and Modernization:         Institution         40.0   34%        20.0       50%
*  Managerial capacity building at departmental and district   building
levels, program monitoring and evaluation system, and  policy
improved information sharing across all levels of MINED
•  School autonomy through ACEs (rural schools), CDEs
and CECEs (urban schools)
*  Communication strategies to increase public awareness of
and support for the basic education reform
Project Administration                                  Mgmt.               3.4    3%         2.5       74%
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _Total: 119.1  100  88.0  74%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 7
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
2 Keypolicy and institutional reforms supported by theproject:
The project will support consolidation of the following key policies and institutional reforms:
(a) Decentralization in the provision of education services. The project will continue to support activities that will
consolidate the school-based management strategies, working with the ACEs in the rural schools and the CDEs and
CECEs in urban schools;
(b) Expansion of coverage of the school system, with the aim of providing universal basic education to all students, with
emphasis on children in the poorest urban centers and most remote rural areas;
(c) Better quality of education through improvements in teachers' qualifications and national evaluation as a tool to
increase accountability at all levels;
(d) Partnership with the private sector, local communities and sub-national levels of government to improve the quality of
the services provided and the management capacity of the education sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The project will help consolidate the remarkable achievements in basic education since the end of the civil war. It
will extend basic education to those remote areas that still have not been reached, so that during the life of the project all
school-age children in El Salvador will gain access to education. The activities implemented under this project, together
with those under the subsequent two phases of the APL, will then seek to ensure that the vast majority (90%) of children
not only enter, but are also able to complete, the full nine years of basic education. In addition to the socioeconomic returns
to basic education, the project will have clear benefits for equity and for efficiency, resulting from improvements in quality
and strengthening the capabilities for evaluation and implementation.
Target population: The project will support the expansion of preschool and- basic education (children 4 to 15 years old),
and will launch a pilot program in Initial Education to benefit children ages 0-3 years. These programs will be aimed at
rural and marginal urban populations in all departmnents, with emphasis on the poorest areas. Quality improvement
subcomponents will benefit all basic education students, teachers and schools in both rural and urban areas. Institutional
strengthening activities will benefit policy-makers and MINED staff, departmental directorates of education, supervisors,
ACEs, CDEs and CECEs. Annex I details the number of project beneficiaries per subcomponent.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented using the same institutional arrangements that are in place and working well for the on-
going Basic Education Modernization Project (Loan 3945-ES, which will be completed two years ahead of schedule).
Executing agencies:
*  MINED will coordinate and monitor implementation of the different components of the project at the national and
departmental (state) levels;
* Selected NGOs, higher education and private institutions contracted by MINED will provide services, such as
curriculum review and upgrading, teacher training, publication and distribution of texts and other learning materials,
etc.;
*  FIS (Fondo de Inversi6n Social), or a qualified implementation agent acceptable to the Bank, will be responsible for
rehabilitation and construction of basic education schools; private contractors may be hired through a bidding process
to complete the infrastructure program;
*  The school councils (ACEs, CDEs and CECEs) will be responsible for local financial management and administration
of schools in rural and urban areas, respectively;
*  Procurement agents will support MINED in the implementation of the project as applicable, for goods, services and
works.
Project oversight and policy setting: Overall responsibility for oversight of the proposed project will be vested in the
Minister of Education, who will be supported in general policy setting and institutional coordination by a committee
composed of the Vice Minister and directors of MINED's administrative units (CONACORE- Comisi6n Nacional de
Coordinaci6n Educativa).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 8
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation: MINED's National Directorate of Education (NDE) acts as the
Project Management Office and coordinates the ongoing projects under the existing organizational structurc.   This
administrative unit reports to the General Directorate of the Ministry of Education. Monitoring and evaluation will be
performed through monthly meetings of CONACORE.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: MINED has undertaken a substantial reorganization to
integrate its administrative and financial functions under the National Directorate of Administration (DNA', As a result,
MINED created USEFI (Unidad Secundaria de Sector Financiero) for International Cooperation, following the _3landate of
the SAFI Law of El Salvador. MINED staff have experience in the areas of project financial and technical monitoring, anid
they have been making continuous efforts improve monitoring of project implementation under ongoing project Loan 3945-
ES. MINED is now in the process of developing and installing an integrated financial and physical monitoring svs.em. An
assessment of present financial management arrangements was conducted as part of preparation and appraisal of the new
project, and agreement was reached with Project Management on a feasible action plan to complete implementation of the
new system, including particular features to meet revised Bank standards in this regard. Improvements in the areas of
project accounting and reporting will facilitate timely preparation and submission of audit reports, which wii] be contracted
with an independent private firm acceptable to the Bank. Full implementation of the action plan and operation of the E,WS'
will be a condition of effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Initial education program with parents' participation vs. traditional early childhood programs: MINED considers that
initial education programs will be one important tool in the efforts to provide universal primary education., espzcially in
rural areas. Based on the successful results of initial education programs in Chile, Mexico, and Panama, where the mothers
play the key role, it was decided to adopt a similar model in the proposed program. Furthermnore, internationa' experience
shows that early childhood programs have more impact when they are developed with parents' participation. Therefore, the
initial education program will be developed through the existing Parent Schools in the EDUCO schools and will include the
mothers as the key element in the program.
Multigrade schools vs. single-grade classrooms in rural areas: The project will continue to support multigrade schools
as the best alternative to offer the full cycle of basic education in rural areas, where resources are scarce and there is a
lower density of student population. Furthermore, an ongoing EDUCO evaluation suggests that multigrade classrooms are
positively related to student achievement.
Accelerated strategies to meet over-age students' needs vs. traditional programs: The project carefully considered the
adoption of accelerated methods to meet the needs of over-age students, as an important tool to organize the system and
minimize the pressure for expansion of services and increased costs. The percent of over-age students, particularly
noticeable in the 3rd and 4th grades of the primary level (17.5% and 19.6% respectively), diverts resources that could be
used to bring new entrants to the system, thus impeding provision of universal basic education. Accelerated strategies to
meet the needs of over-age students and the support of communication strategies to inform the parents to avoid late entrance
of their children into the school system will be emphasized by the project.
Holistic infrastructure plan vs. solely new construction: Given that lack of infrastructure, rehabilitation and expansion
needs are becoming a significant constraint to the provision of services as well as the quality of the learning process, it was
decided that the proposed project would not only provide infrastructure for new services but also for existing schools, to
ensure full coverage of infrastructure needs. In addition, the preventive maintenance program will guarantee improved care
and longer duration of new and rehabilitated facilities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 9
Country: El Salvador                                                                       Project Title: Education Reform
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issue                               Project                             Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)    Obj. (DO)
Bank-financed
Need to increase coverage of basic education  Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (3348-  HS           S
in rural areas and improve the quality of  ES). Closing date, September 1996. Project
service delivery.                       completed with highly satisfactory results in
the education component.                                        _
Need to increase coverage and internal   Basic Education Modernization Project          HS             HS
efficiency of basic education, improve  (3945-ES). Co-financed with IDB; ongoing.
managerial and administrative capacity, and
ameliorate inadequate financing of the
sector.
Need to increase coverage of secondary   Secondary Education Project (41680-ES).    Not yet due    Not yet due
education, improve the quality of services  Approved in August 1997. To become
and support institutional reforms.       effective in May 1998.
Need for reform to improve major         Technical Assistance Project (3648-ES).        S               S
administrative systems and service delivery,   Closed in September 1996.
including those of sector ministries.   Public Sector Modernization TAL (4082-          S              S
ES); ongoing.
Competitiveness Enhancement Project (3946-     S              S
ES); ongoing.
Other development agencies
Need to improve technology skills and    Education Technology Project. IDB;
knowledge of students in basic education.  approved in February 1998.
Need for curriculum reform and institutional  Strengthening of Basic Education (SABE),
modernization.                          USAID - Academy for Educational
Development; ongoing.
Lack of school infrastructure           Education Infrastructure Project. IDB; under
preparation.
School Construction Project. Government of
Japan; Phase I - closed in 1997; Phase 11 -
closed in February 1998; Phase III -approved.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Community participation: Successful implementation of EDUCO's parent-run ACEs at the basic education level has
demonstrated the positive outcomes of strong community participation in education service delivery. The ACEs have
shown that when schools are managed by parent councils, and teachers and parents share responsibilities, accourtability
increases at all levels. This can be seen in the reduction in teacher absenteeism and resulting decrease in number of
schools days missed by students. The success of the ACEs stimulated the organization of the CDEs in urban areas, and
private religious schools took the initiative to adopt a similar structure (CECEs). Participation of these groups in the
management of schools, and funds raised by the school councils and ACEs, have been important for improving education
services. The institutional strengthening and modernization component of this project stresses decentralization to the
local level to enhance the capacity of the school councils (ACEs, CDEs and CECEs) to support school-based
management.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 10
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
Borrower ownership and stakeholders' participation: Borrower ownership and stakeholders' participation are essential to
ensure the sustainability of projects. Continued improvement of decentralization, to involve departmental offices and local
communities in school management, has been coupled with efforts to expand the universe of participants in oolicy
discussions. One example is the seminar organized by the Government and the Bank at Harvard University in November
1997. Members of the National Assembly, MINED, local universities and NGOs worked together to define a vision for
education for the next ten years. The inclusion of a broad spectrum of stakeholders in policy dialogue, decision-making and
operations increases interest in sector issues and commitment to the implementation of the education reform program.
Institutional strengthening: Other projects in Latin America have shown that adequate institutional capacity and an
appropriate policy framework are key determinants of project success. Focus will be placed on strengthening MINED's
capacity to monitor and evaluate the quality of initial and basic education at the student and staff levels, and make sound
policy decisions in line with findings. With regard to financial administration and procurement of projects, continued
strengthening of MINED's capacity-building of its internal units will be a priority. MINED will also work on improving
communications with departmental and local personnel to support the decentralization process.
Simple project design and flexibility: Simplicity and clarity in the design of the project and flexibility in implementation
have characterized successful projects. Project components should be limited and well-focused. The proposed basic
education project is limited to three major components of coverage, quality and institutional strengthening.
Lessons from EDUCO: Experience since the early 1990s with the EDUCO program has had a significant impact on the
learning curve for this project. Many of the same actors who were instrumental in the earlier projects will be involved in the
current operation, including: MINED staff, teachers and administrators, supervisors, departmental personnel, parents and
other local community members. A number of the positive lessons learned from the EDUCO program in prior projects are
reflected in the proposed project design: decentralization, the role of community involvement, supervision models,
availability of infrastructure and the linking of administrative systems (financial management, MIS, human resource
management, internal auditing and control, and evaluation systems).
Multigrade schools: The ongoing impact evaluation of EDUCO demonstrates that multigrade classrooms are positively
related to student achievement. This is consistent with the findings from other countries, including Colombia, Bolivia,
Togo, France and Pakistan. This may be due to the flexibility of the curriculum and its tailoring to the individual needs of
the students. This project will continue to support multigrade teaching methods as a strategy to attend to the needs of
students in rural areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Ministerial leadership within MINED has continued successfully on its reform path during two administrations, and there is
careful documentation of planned initiatives in the 1995-2005 Ten-Year Plan. MINED has conducted these reforms in a
logical and sequential manner. Recently, MINED contracted an evaluation of its education reform by external evaluators
from different countries in and outside the region. Their recommendations have been incorporated by MINED into the
design of this project.
*  MINED has successfully developed the basic education reform program, decentralizing provision of education to ACEs
in EDUCO schools in the rural areas and to CDEs and CECEs in urban schools.
* Members of El Salvador's National Assembly, MINED staff, local universities and NGOs attended the seminar at
Harvard University in November 1997 to engage in a policy dialogue and to define a vision for education for the next
ten years. This has important positive implications for long-range sustainability of reforrn efforts, inasmuch as national
elections will take place in 1999.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* The Bank has a long-standing commitment to provide technical and financial support to the education sector, and has
made this a central priority of its country assistance strategy for El Salvador. A participatory team approach to
designing and implementing projects with MINED has resulted in increased dialogue and cooperation at many



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 11
Country: El Salvador                                                             Project Title: Education Reform
institutional levels in-country, and has contributed to a growing feeling of trust and respect between MINED personnel
and Bank team members.
*  The Bank is involved in basic and secondary education projects in El Salvador and is very familiar with and
knowledgeable about the sector issues. In this process, local NGOs and higher education institutions have been engaged
thoroughly and this is strengthening local analytical capabilities in the sector.
*  The Bank is supporting the development of the impact evaluation of the Basic Education Modernization Project. The
results of this evaluation have been incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
*  The Bank supported a stakeholders' seminar at Harvard University in November 1997, thereby contributing to
increased consensus in education reform goals and objectives.
*  The Bank's involvement in the sector has encouraged participation of other donors and helped mobilize additional
sources of financing.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file; see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4): Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= US$298.53 million; ERR= 20.4%
The Economic Analysis for the project indicates that it is justifiable on economic grounds. This conclusion is valid both
when individual components are considered and when the project is evaluated as a whole. The cost-benefit analysis takes
account of direct project costs as well as future recurrent costs and opportunity costs. The benefits are assumed to be ill the
form of increased labor market earnings due to higher coverage, provision of basic infrastructure and improved quality. 'The
results are checked for robustness to alternative values of critical variables, such as the quantum of the earnings differential.
It is noted that there will be an ongoing economic analysis of those parts of the project which are at a Pilot stage in Phase I
of the APL. The ongoing economic analysis will include the setting up and evaluation of a scientifically designed matched
panel study to assess the impact of specific interventions on academic achievement and systemic efficiency. Finally, some
illustrative examples are provided to show that schooling inputs are associated with improved academic achievement and
that there are potentially large non-market benefits to schooling.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Even under conservative growth assumptions for GDP and public expenditures, the financial burdens of the project and
education program are manageable (see Table 5.3, Annex 5). The cost of the project amounts to about 9% of the estimated
education sector expenditures during Phase 1 of the APL, and to less than 6% during subsequent phases. Estimates by year
also show that the impact of the project on the MINED budget would not represent an excessive burden at any point, either
during project implementation or in later years. Overall, proposed expenditures under the project comprise an even balance
of investment and recurrent expenditures, which is expected given the high emphasis on the introduction of quality-
enhancing mechanisms and school-based management strategies. In Phase I, approximately US$66 million or 56% of
project costs are for investments, and some US$53 million for recurrent costs. In subsequent phases, the investment share is
expected to decline to about 50% of overall costs. Recurrent expenditures generated by the project between 1999 and 2005
amount, on average, to 4.3% of sector recurrent expenditures. Financing from IBRD will decline from 73.8% of total cost
in Phase 1 to 58% in subsequent phases.
3. Technical:
The project takes into consideration the context of the current education system and the government sector strategies
expressed in the Ten-Year Education Plan (1995-2005), and provides appropriate technical responses. The most important
issues of access, equity and quality are addressed through project components intended to have an impact on both rural and
urban schools. Project preparation has benefited greatly from the lessons learned from the ongoing Basic Education
Modernization Project (Loan 3945-ES), as well as the incorporation of successful technical and administrative practices
within El Salvador (EDUCO, ACEs, CDEs and CECEs), initial results of the impact evaluation of the ongoing project
conducted by MINED with Bank support, and international experience (e.g. Brazil: accelerated programs; Mexico, Panama
and Chile: initial education programs; Guatemala and Colombia: multigrade classrooms; and Australia and New Zealand:
school based-management experiences).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 12
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: MINED has demonstrated strong implementation capacity and conmnitment to delivery of the
education reform program in previous Bank-financed projects (Social Sectors Rehabilitation Project, Loan 3348-ES, and
Basic Education Modernization Project, Loan 3945-ES). The probability of success of this project has been strengthened
by the partnership approach adopted by MINED between the public and private sectors. Under MINED's supervision,
several components of the project will be carried out through contracts with NGOs, the Social Investment Fund (Fondo de
Inversi6n Social, FIS), local higher education institutions and others. These agencies have demonstrated capacity to
provide quality technical assistance to implement a number of activities in a timely fashion. All of the 1,696 EDUCO
schools have ACEs, 99% of the traditional schools (2,581) have CDEs, and all of the parochial schools subsidized by
MINED (95) have CECEs to support implementation at the school level. At the central level, the CONACORE has
demonstrated its role in augmenting MINED's institutional capacity for policy-making and management. Finally, to
guarantee the sustainability of processes and procedures, the National Directorate of Administration (DNA) has assumed
responsibility for procurement, financial and accounting management formerly handled by OPCI.
b. Project management: The National Directorate of Education, currently acting as the Project Management Office (PMO)
for the Basic Education Modernization Project, will support project coordination. Improvements have been incorporated
into the design of project management and implementation, building on the lessons learned and accumulated experience and
successes of the National Directorate of Education and OPCI in implementing earlier projects.
5. Social:
Two social assessments of the education system were undertaken recently by MINED as part of the preparation and
implementation for the first Basic Education Modernization Project. A third one was carried out in 1997 in preparation for
the Secondary Education Project.' Since then, as recommended, MINED has contracted local research institutions and
NGOs (FEPADE, FUNDASALVA and Universidad Don Bosco, among others) to complete a series of detailed diagnoses
covering such issues as values transmitted in the classroom, gender equity, education for peace and democracy, and
opportunities for disadvantaged children. These diagnoses have involved consultation with main education stakeholders,
particularly with teachers, parents and students. The Bank social assessment team concluded that in preparation for the
new education reform program, focus should be placed on further advancing implementation of previous findings and
reconmmendations into specific activities to be funded by this new project, rather than engaging in more field work. The
project includes activities aimed at: (a) promoting gender equity in classrooms and equality of opportunities for girls aind
boys; (b) promoting girls' self-esteem as a means of facing the alarming increase in teen pregnancy; (c) socializing children
for peace and democracy and offering strategies for conflict resolution to combat youth alienation and violence; and (d)
stimulating schools to develop activities such as sports, games and arts to make schools more attractive to children, hence
contributing to a reduction in drop-out (see Annex 2).
6. Environmental assessment: Enviromnental Category ] A   [] B    [X] C
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Beneficiaries/community groups ACEs, CDEs, CECEs (CON,    ACEs, CDEs, CECEs (CON,  ACEs, CDEs, CECEs (CON,
COL)                        COL)                      COL)
National government       National Assembly members (IS,
Intermediary NGOs         FEPADE, FIS (IS)            FEPADE, FIS, FUSADES,    FEPADE, FIS, FUSADES,
FUNDASALVA (IS, CON,    FUNDASALVA, (IS, CON,
COL)                      COL)
Academic institutions     Universidad Centro Americana,  Local universities (IS, CON,  Local universities (IS. CON,
Francisco Gavidia Univ., Don    COL)                  COL)
Bosco Univ. (IS, CON, COL)
Local government          Departments (CON)           Departments (CON)          Departments (CON)
Other donors              IDB, USAID (IS)             IDB, USAID (IS)           IDB, USAID (IS)
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; and COL = collaboration



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 13
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
b. Other key stakeholders:
The design and preparation of the project have been participatory from the outset. The project's components and
implementation activities have been defined jointly with MINED personnel. Close collaboration has also been maintaincd
with the IDB and USAID to encourage their participation, assist in mobilizing additional sources of financing, and avoid
duplication of efforts. In the last three years, as part of the preparation and implementation of the ongoing Basic Education
Modernization Project, there has been extensive consultation with teachers, youngsters, parents, members of the National
Assembly and other stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional. The National Development Plan (draft - January 1998) places education as the country's highest priority and
the most important tool for development. The Government has demonstrated its commitment to basic education, expressed
in the financial and human resources devoted to this level of education. The institutional sustainability of the project also
will be guaranteed by the management mechanism adopted by the project. The Community Education Associations (ACEs)
in the EDUCO schools, composed of parents and community members, and the school councils (CDEs and CECEs) in
urban schools, composed of parents, teachers, students, aid directors, will continue to be a key factor to a sustainable and
effective education reform programn. Sustainability will also be reinforced by the technical assistance provided by tite project
to the schools to develop the pilots, and to ACEs, CDEs and CECEs to develop and implement workable and cost-effective
school plans to be financed by the school "grants." The design and implementation of the school plans by the ACEs, CDEs
and CECEs, a unique exercise in school autonomy, will be an important element for ensuring project sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk              Risk                        Risk Minimization Measure
Rating                                                                    l
Inadequate public funding of   M    The Government will ensure commnitment of public funds for the sector, and
expenditures in basic education      will plan programs in line with the available budget. Efforts have been made
to build political consensus, and members of the National Assembly from all
parties have publicly stated their commitment to the Ten-Year Education Plan.
In addition, this project will support a budget planning exercise to allow better
allocation of education resources.
Loss of political consensus    N    The Bank and MINED have maintained a permanent dialogue with
(congressional representatives,      stakeholders to build consensus to carry the reform program. Members of the
teachers' unions, school             National Assembly, MINED, local universities and NGOs attended the
directors, parents) and support      seminar at Harvard University in November 1997 to define a vision for
for the education reform and         education for the next ten years. This has important implications for long-
program objectives                   range planning as national elections in 1999 may bring political changes.
Lack of continuity in MINED's    M    The effort to build consensus through activities such as the Harvard seminar
technical team as a result of        brings with it consistency in education policies, commitment to the reform
change of Government                 program and incentives for continuity in staffing and personnel. In addition,
emphasis will be given to improved information sharing within MINED.
Lack of public participation in  N    The pilot program for initial education will be based in the Parent Schools to
and support for initial, preschool  ensure full support from parents. The preschool and basic education programs
and basic education reforms          will take advantage of established community participation through ACEs,
CDEs and CECEs. The project will strengthen these participatory
mechanisms and also will include improved communication strategies to ensure
increased awareness of and support for the education reform program.
Overall Risk Rating   M   I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 14
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
In June 1999, a new Government will take office. Despite the systematic consultation process incorporated in the design
and implementation of the reforms and the preparation of the Ten-Year Education Plan, including members of the
National Assembly and representatives from the political parties and the society as a whole, the new Government may
want to question some of the aspects of the education reform effort.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Negotiations:
* The Government provided a policy letter, indicating its commitment to the implementation of the Education Reform
Project as a means of achieving the Ten-Year Education Plan (see Annex 13).
2. Effectiveness Conditions
* MINED will approve a Project Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank.
* The Ministry of Finance will establish a Revolving Fund in national currency, to be managed by MINED, with an
initial deposit of US$500,000 to cover the start-up costs for project implementation.
* MINED will present a signed agreement with FIS providing for respective obligations in the implementation of the
infrastructure rehabilitation and construction component for funds allocated to such component.
* The new Financial Monitoring System (FMS) will be operating.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
TMsk aVage: Madalena dos Santos
Actrg Department Director: Xavier Coil
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 15
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 1
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Project Design Summary
(see Description of Project and all Components and Subcomponents in Annex 2)
Sector-related CAS Goal                                                                 (Goal to Bank
Mission)
Educated and skilled labor force  *  No. of primary graduates who     Project Monitoring  Country's
increased                       continue on to the next education level    Reports,     macroeconomic
increases from 78% in 1997 to 90% by    Household survey   situation remains
2002                                 results            stable
*Illiteracy decreases from 25% in
1995 to 15% by the year 2005
Project Development Objectives   Overall program indicators to be                       (Objective to
achieved by the year 2005                               Goal)
Coverage, quality and efficiency of  *  Preschool education enrollment  MINED's
initial, preschool and basic    increases from 40% to 60%             statistics,       Budget allocation
education systems improved and  *  95% of all children ages 7-12 (grades  Project Monitoring  for education will
expanded, especially in rural and  1-6) have access to schooling (priority  Reports     continue to
marginal urban areas            given to rural and marginal urban                       increase in line
populations)                                            with Government
*  Coverage of basic and secondary                     targets (to 50%
educ. increases by 10% through distance                of Central
education programs                                      Government
*  Coverage of upper sec. ed. programs                 expenditures by
increases by 15% and quality improves                   1999)
* Age-grade distortion in basic
education decreases from 20% to 10%                    Policies are
*  Student performance increases                        adhered to and
conisenlyat all levels, as measured by               major
the National Evaluation SystemMsion)
*  Number of schools that offer Grades                  (within and
1 to 6 increases by 20%                                outside of
*  School autonomy increases through                   MINED) remain
improved mechanisms for admin                          committed to
planning and participation of ACEs,                    reorstuioa
CDEs and CECEsreom
Project indicators (Phase I) to be
achieved by the year 2001
*  Preschool enrollment increases from
40% to 45%
*  Net enrollment rate increases for
cycles 1 and 2 of basic education (grades
1-6) from  85% to 90%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 16
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Education Reform
*  Enrollment of 7-year-old children in
rural areas reaches 100%
*  Repetition and dropout rates decrease
from 4% to 3% and from 4.5% to 3.5%,
respectively
*  Pilot project accelerates promotion of
at least 5% of over-age students
*  Student achievement scores remain
above the baseline established in 1998
Project Outputs                   Indicators to be achieved by Year 2001;                    (Outputs to
50% must be met before Phase 11                           Objectives)
becomes effective.
COVERAGE:                                                                                    Demand for chilld
1. EDUCO sections established and  *  Minimum of 178 new EDUCO           MlNED's            schooling is
new ACEs created and operational,  sections for 1st grade, 175 EDUCO     statistics,         maintained and/or
according to established guidelines   sections for continuing students (grades    Project Monitoring  increased despite
2-9) and 50 preschool sections         Reports, Site visits  continued
established each year, beg. in 1999                        stagnation and
*  Minimum of 100 new ACEs created.                       extreme poverty
in rural areas each year, beg. in 1999                    in rural areas
2. Pilot program for Initial      *  Minimum of 125 Parent Schools       Project Monitoring
Education established            include Initial Education curriculum in  Reports, Site
their program each year, beg. in 1999  visits,
*  At least 18,750 children ages 0-3   Departmental
years receive benefits                 records
3. Accelerated education programs   *  Accelerated pilot program is initiated  Project Monitoring
established and alternative       each year in 130 classrooms with trained   Reports, MINED's
(multigrade) classrooms expanded   teachers, beginning in 1999           statistics
QUALITY:
4. Curricula and didactic materials   *  Curriculum revised and upgrades  Project Monitoring
revised and delivered, and Fondo  prepared to support new prograrns      Reports, MINED's
Alegria program established       a  Didactic materials printed and      statistics
distributed to all initial, preschool and
basic educ. programs
* Books and materials delivered to 150
public libraries
*  Resources transferred to 300 schools
by 2001 to finance Fondo Alegria 's
student-defined projects
5. Teachers and other education   *  All teachers participate in bi-annual   Project Monitoring
agents trained                   in-service training courses             Reports, MINED's
*  200 mentor teachers trained (in-    statistics
service) per year, beg. in 1999



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 17
Country: El Salvador                                                               ProjectTitle: Education Reform
*  130 teachers (accelerated program)
trained per year, beg. in 1999
6. National Evaluation System   *  Improved evaluation system         MINED's
improved for basic education    established                           statistics, NES
*  3% random sample of students taking  results, Project
national exams in grades 3, 6 and 9  Monitoring
Reports
7. Education strategies for school   *  4,000 teachers and 6,000 parents  Project Monitoring
health and nutrition expanded to    trained in health and nutrition issues  Reports, MINED's
disadvantaged communities                                             statistics
8. Schools rehabilitated and    *  796 classrooms replaced, 259       Project Monitoring
preventive maintenance program  rehabilitated and 35 expanded using   Reports, MINED's
operational                     established standards, according to  statistics,
results of the mapping exercise      Site visits,
*  100% of basic ed. schools have    Departmental
operating preventive maintenance     records
programs
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
9. Managerial capacity building  *  At least 7 of the 14 Departments  Project Monitoring  MINED's
strengthened at departmental and    operating under the new functions  Reports, MINED    technical team
district levels, financial planning  established by MINED's Modernization   administrative  remains
and monitoring system established,  Program, esp. in the system areas of  manuals, Random   committed to
and information sharing across all  human resources, payments, accounting   interviews and site  educational
levels of MINED improved        and information (MIS)                 visits            reform goals
* Core Sector Monitoring System
developed by 2000
* Annual Program Expenditure
Reviews prepared, beginning in 1999
10. School autonomy through     *  New resource allocation criteria   Project Monitoring
ACEs (rural schools), CDEs and    established for transfer of funds to ACEs, Reports, Random
CECEs (urban schools) increased    CDEs and CECEs                     interviews and site
and school funds (school grants -    *  School grants allocated to all schools  visits
bonos) transferred              with ACEs, CDEs and CECEs
* 6,052 assemblies/meetings held with
participation of at least 302,600 parents
and community members
* 30,000 ACE members, 50,000 CDE
and 900 CECE members trained



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 18
Country: El Salvador                                                                  Project Title: Education Reform
11. MINED's educational          *  1 television and 1 radio campaign   Project Monitoring
awareness campaign continued and   carried out yearly                   Reports,
monitored by teachers            *  I edition of MINED's magazine       Beneficiary
produced and distributed to schools each  assessment reports,
semester                              Media campaign
*  5% random sample of teachers       tapes, Magazine
participate in monitoring questionnaire to  editions,
ensure effectiveness of awareness     Questionnaires
campaign
Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budget for each component)                       (Components to 
components: (see Annex 2 for                                                               Outputs)
project description)
Counterpart
COVERAGE:                                                                                  funding will be
1. Establish EDUCO sections and             US$14.3 mnillion            Project Monitoring  available for all of
create new ACEs                                                         Reports, Legal     the outlined
*  Complete needs assessment to                                         documents          activities
identify locations
*  Organize Boards of Directors
and collect legal documents for at
least 100 ACEs each year,
beginning in 1999
* Contract teachers for new
sections
* Carry out first fund transfer
2. Establish pilot program for               US$0.7 million             Examination of
Initial Education                                                       evaluation study,
*  Carry out revision of current                                        Project Monitoring
national and intemational initial                                       Reports, Action
education programs                                                      plan
* Design program model
* Complete needs assessment to
establish list of priority schools
* Design training program for
parents and teachers and prepare
courses for ACE, CDE and CECE
members and teachers
* Design, print and distribute
materials
*  Prepare action plan for follow-
on and evaluation                                                                                           I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 19
Country: El Salvador                                                                    Project Tile: Education Reform
3. Establish accelerated programs             US$8.9 million             Project Monitoring
and expand alternative                                                   Reports, Random
(multigrade) classrooms                                                  interviews and site
*  Carry out needs assessment for                                        visits
accelerated program for over-age
students and reinforce alternative
(multigrade) classrooms
*  Select communities
* Design alternative promotion
system
* Create program materials
*  Strengthen teachers' study
circles at district level
*  Prepare action plan for
evaluation and follow-on for both
programs
QUALITY
4. Revise and deliver curricula and          US$25.1 million             Project Monitoring
didactic materials and develop                                           Reports, MINED's
Fondo Alegria                                                             statistics, Site
*  Revise curricula for special                                          visits
and initial ed., basic ed. for adults
and accelerated programs and have
it approved by MINED by 1999
* Implement new curricula by
2001
*  Edit and print study programs
for initial and special education by
2000
* Distribute classroom, school
and specialized libraries and
educational materials to
preschools, basic education
schools and 40 special ed. schools
*  Distribute bibliographic
material to 150 public libraries
*  Identify schools to receive
funds for Fondo Alegria projects
*  Establish selection criteria for
Fondo Alegria project proposals
*  Distribute selection criteria and
guidelines for development, local
approval, presentation and
evaluation of Fondo Alegria
project activities
* Design evaluation of Fondo
Alegria program



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 20
Country: El Salvador                                                                  Project Title: Education Reform
5. Train teachers and other                  US$3.4 million             Project Monitoring
education agents                                                        Reports, School
*  Develop didactic materials for                                       visits, Classroom
teachers and students                                                   observations
*  Contract services for design
and implementation of training
program by 1999
o Design training programs for
trainers and teachers by 1999
* Design and print training
materials by 1999
6. Strengthen the NES and other              US$2.4 million             NAS reports,
evaluation tools to measure                                             Project Monitoring
student achievement                                                     Reports, MINED's
*  Revise and redesign evaluation                                       statistics
instruments
* Complete needs assessment for
data collection, storage and analysis
by 1999
*  Disseminate annual test results
by 2000
7. Evaluate school health and                US$1.0 million             Project Monitoring
nutrition programs                                                      Reports, School
*  Carry out evaluation of pilot                                        visits and random
program by. 1999 (TA required)                                         interviews
* Revise training programs for
teachers and parents by 1999
* Evaluate and reproduce
materials by 1999
8. Rehabilitate schools and                 US$19.9 million             Project Monitoring
strengthen the preventive                                               Reports,
maintenance program                                                     Examination of
*  Complete needs assessment by                                         preventive
1999                                                                   maintenance plan
* Create mechanisms for
maintenance program by 1999
* Design and implement follow-
on plan for construction and
rehabilitation of school facilities
and distribution of equipment and
furniture



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 21
Countny: El Salvador                                                                 Project Title: Education Reiorm
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING, 
9. Improve planning and                     US$3.5 million             Project Monitoring
managerial capacity of MINED 's                                        Reports,
Departmental and district offices                                      Examination of
*  Revise roles, functions,                                            manuals and
processes and procedures at all                                        mechanisms
levels in human resource, payment,
accounting and information
systems by 1999, with special
emphasis on departmental level
*  Establish and implement new
roles by 2001
10. Improve school autonomy                US$35.8 million            Project Monitoring
*  Revise legal procedures, fund                                       Reports,
transfer mechanisms,                                                   Examination of
administrative and educational                                         procedures and
technical processes to further                                         mechanisms,
facilitate local management by                                         MINED's statistics
2000
a  Offer annual training courses
to ACE, CDE and CECE members
* Develop mechanisms to
guarantee appropriate use of
resources
11. Further develop and implement           US$0.7 million            Project Monitoring  Communication
social communication strategies                                        Reports, MINED's  campaigns will
*  Design and implement mass                                           statistics         increase
media campaign annually                                                                   participation in
*  Design and implement                                                                   and support for
evaluation and impact assessment                                                          basic education
of communication strategies with                                                          reforms
teachers
*  Carry out seminars, focus
groups and questionnaires with
parents, teachers and students to
disseminate information on
education reform achievements
and innovations and receive
feedback from different levels
(central, dept. and local)



Preted Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 22
Country: El Salvador                                                              Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 2A
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Project Description
Project Objectives and Components
The objectives of the Education Reform Project (1999-2001) are to promote greater equity, quality, and efficiency in the
promotion of education services by: (a) expanding access to initial, preschool and basic education, especially to rural and
marginal urban populations; (b) improving education quality in both achievement (output) and learning environment
(education inputs); and (c) strengthening the managerial, financial and administrative capacity of MINED to set policies and
guidelines for the sector and deliver public education services. In order to meet these objectives, the project is divided into
three interrelated components. The organizational structure of this project will be similar to that of the on-going Basic
Education Modernization Project. Indeed, most of the proposed components are being implemented already under the Basic
Education Modernization Project and will be expanded under this project. New components include initial education, the
Fondo Alegria and accelerated methodologies for over-age students. Table 2.1 outlines the components for both projects
and shows the linkages between them.
Table 2.1: Comparison of Project Components
Basic Education Modernization and Education Reform
COMPONENTS &                            BASIC EDUCATION  EDUCATION
SUB-COMPONENTS                          MODERNIZATION I REFORM I
*  Expansion of access to preschool and           X                      X
basic education through the EDUCO
programn
*  Promotion of initial education                                        *
•  Accelerated education modalities for                                  *
over-age children
*  Curriculum                                     X                      X
*  Fondo Alegria                                                        *
*  Textbooks and instructional materials          X                      X
*  Teacher training                               X                      X
*  National education assessment systemn          X                      X
School health and nutrifion program            X                     X
*  hiftastructure improvements                    X                      X
*  Modernization of MINED (management             X                      X
capacity buldnx_.
*  Pilot basic education fund programn            X
*  School autonomy - strengdiening ACEs,            
CDEs and CECEs
*  Communication strategy                         X                      X
X =continuation of activities; **=new activities



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 23
Country: El Salvador                                                              Project ritle: Education Reform
PROJECT COMPONENTS
COMPONENT 1 - EXPANSION OF ACCESS TO PRESCHOOL AND BASIC EDUCATION - US$23.9 million
(total cost of component)
Objecives. This component will (i) expand access to preschool and basic education in rural areas through the EDUCO
model, including construction of new classrooms and payment of teachers on a declining basis; (ii) develop an innovative
initial education program with parent participation; and (iii) establish accelerated education modalities to meet the needs of
over-age children in rural and marginal urban areas and expand alternative (multigrade) classrooms.
Indicators and Targets. The general indicators for this component are:
(a) the number of students enrolled in EDUCO schools, and the number of teachers selected and contracted by the
Community Education Associations (ACEs) in the rural areas;
(b) the number of students enrolled in marginal urban areas;
(c) the number of children and parents benefiting from the initial education program; and
(d) the number of over-age students promoted to next grades.
The specific target is that at least 90% of the children from ages 7 to 12 will be enrolled in school by the year 2001.
Subcomponent 1. EXPANDED ACCESS TO PRE-SCHOOL AND BASIC EDUCATION - US$14.3 million (total
cost of subcomponent)
Objective. This subcomponent will increase opportunities for access to preschool and basic education, with emphasis on
reaching students in the most rural areas of the country. Approximately 17,088 new students will be enrolled by the year
2001.
Implementation arrangements. Based on the recent school mapping exercise, new classrooms and sections will be
established. This will lead to universal coverage of the first cycle of basic education (grades 1-3) for new students and will
increase the number of years of schooling for students already enrolled. A minimum of 2,065 EDUCO sections (534 new
and 1,531 expanded sections for the grade level needed - see Table 2.2) will be established to meet the unmet demand.
Decisions will be made regarding placement of sections in municipalities that currently use the EDUCO model and
introduction of the program to some of the 33 municipalities still not covered.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) teachers' salaries on a declining basis; and (b) organization of ACEs.
Table 2.2 Calendar for Expansion of EDUCO
.. _.   ......
Preschool                             50            50            50          150
Basic education (lst grade)           178          178           178          534
Basic education (Grades 2-9)          175          553           653         1,381
Total          403           781          881         2,065
Subcomponent 2. PROMOTION OF INITIAL EDUCATION - US$0.7 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objective. This subcomponent aims at (i) establishing an initial education program with the participation of the parents,
targeting children ages 0-3 years; and (ii) strengthening the home environment and increasing the child's physical, social,
and psychological readiness for school.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 24
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Educaticio  Reform
Implementation arrangements. The initial education program will be developed and launched on a pilot basis in 525
school communities (300 in rural areas and 225 in marginal urban areas - see Table 2.3). Parent participation will be key
to the success of the program, since their attention to the physical and emotional care, health and nutrition of their children
determine the personal well being of the children and their readiness for school. The program will focus on reaching the
young children by strengthening their home environment. Parents will receive training through the ACEs and their
corresponding parent schools (escuelas de padres) on issues such as physical care, health, nutrition, early stimulation of
motor and cognitive skills, and other important aspects that may contribute to early childhood development. The parent
school strategy will be strengthened by improved training of ACE members and redesign of materials to support their
school-based management responsibilities, as well as improved materials for EDUCO teachers. MINED will identilf, those
ACEs with effective parent schools to carry out this subcomponent, thus making fuller use of EDUCO facni;iies ai3d
broadening their role beyond support for school management and infrastructure needs. The design of the pilot program  7ill
be based on an evaluation of international experience (Chile, Mexico, Panama and Peru).
Financing. The proposed program will finance: (a) technical assistance required to design the strategy and training plan,
(b) implementation and assessment of training for trainers and parents; and (c) design, printing and distribution of trainiag
materials.
Table 2.3 Implementation of Initial Education Pilot Program
Rural                75        100        125       300
Marginal Urban       50        75         100       225
Total    125        175       225        525
Subcomponent 3. PROVISION OF ACCELERATED AND ALTERNATIVE (MULTIGRADE) lEDUC.ATION
MODALITIES - US$8.9 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objective. This subcomponent will support alternative education modalities to meet the needs of over-age children in rural
and marginal urban areas, such as multigrade classrooms and accelerated alternatives aimed at decreasing repetition a,nd
improving promotion.
Implementation arrangements. Remote rural and marginal urban areas present a high percentage of over-age students. In
general, these communities also have a low number of school-age children, and present high desertion and/or :eoetirion
rates. These problems require distinctive responses not found in formal school settings. The proposed strateg-es will
include: (i) the introduction of 390 pilot accelerated classrooms to encourage over-age students to attend school; thk
accelerated program will include the development of teaching materials and an alternative promotion system espc£ialiy
designed for students with age-grade distortions; and (ii) strengthening of the alternative (multigrade) classrooms, especially
for the 3rd cycle (grades 7-9), where multigrade teaching, accelerated programs and other alternative teaching mchods are
offered.
Accelerated classrooms The accelerated classroom is a new system to be adopted by MINED, based on successf 1
experiences being implemented in several states in Brazil. Classes will be organized in rural, urban and margina' urban
areas for over-age students (see Table 2.4). The system will diminish repetition and will give students the opportunitv to
accelerate their studies, thus correcting the age-grade distortion. Students will be exposed to special curricu. i.m and
learning/teaching materials, and an alternative promotion system. It is expected that students can advance at 1cast two
grades for each school year. In EDUCO schools, in the rural areas, classrooms will combine multigrade and acclerated
strategies, if needed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 25
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Alternative (multigrade) classrooms. MINED already has significant experience in multigrade strategies based on the
Escuela Nueva model (Colombia) and the Guatemala experience2. The 1996 impact evaluation, done with Bank support,
showed that those students in multigrade classes performed better than students in traditional classroom settings.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) technical assistance required to design: (i) the accelerated program
strategy; (ii) an alternative promotion and certificate system; and (iii) an evaluation and monitoring system for accelerated
and alternative (multigrade) classrooms; (b) training programs for teachers and parents; (c) educational materials for
students; and (d) design, printing and distribution of teaching materials.
Table 2.4 Implementation of Accelerated Program
(sections established per year)
Rural                  50        50       50        150
Urban                  20        20       20         60
Margmal Urban          60        60       60        180
TOTAL                 130       130      130        390
COMPONENT 2 - QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS - US$51.8 million (total cost of component)
Objectives. This component will: (i) complete the national education curriculum reform by supporting the revision of
curriculum for initial and special education, basic education for adults, and accelerated programs to address the special
needs of over-age students; (ii) review, design and provide educational materials for teachers and students for all levels and
modalities, and strengthen public, school, classroom and specialized libraries; (iii) support a strategy to foster student
initiatives (Fondo Alegria); (iv) strengthen training programs for teachers (pre-service and in-service) and other education
agents (directors, supervisors, trainers, etc.); (v) improve the National Evaluation System and student achievement
measurements; (vi) improve health and nutrition school programs and (vii) provide infrastructure and furniture to schools.
Indicators and Targets. The general indicators of this component are:
(a) revision of the curriculum for initial and special education, basic education for adults, and accelerated programs;
(b) number of textbooks and library books distributed;
(c) number of teachers trained;
(e) number of projects approved, to be supported by the Fondo Alegria;
(f) number of schools participating in the health and nutrition programs;
(g) number of classrooms rehabilitated or replaced; and
(h) number of schools implementing the preventive maintenance program.
The specific target is that the level of achievement of students will increase by at least 5% by 2001, compared to the 1996
baseline.
Subcomponent 1. IMPROVED CURRICULUM, DIDACTIC MATERIALS AND LIBRARIES - US$24.3 million
(total cost of subcomponent)
Objectives. This subcomponent will: (i) support revision of the curriculum for initial and special education, basic education
for adults, and for accelerated programs to address the special needs of over-age students; and (ii) revise and upgrade
didactic materials for teachers and students for initial and special education, and for distance education and multigrade and
accelerated programs.
2 The Salvadorans have organized study tours to both Colombia and Guatemala. As a result of these visits, a multigrade program
has been adopted and named "Aulas alternativas."



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 26
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Education Reform
Implementation arrangements. Curriculum. To improve school quality, MINED has been developing a national
curriculum reform of all educational levels and modalities. This subcomponent will provide continued support for this
initiative by including the revision of curriculum for the above-mentioned programs. Special materials will be designed for
initial education, allowing for their implementation by different groups (parent schools and NGOs) as well as for
accelerated programs and special education students. This will provide consistency in the application of the programs
offered. Higher education institutions and research agencies will continue to support the curriculum specialists of the
Direcci6n Nacional in the development and evaluation of the new curriculum programs.
Didactic materials and libraries. Changes in the materials will reflect the improvements made in the curriculum for the
various programs covered by the project. Textbooks and curricular instruments will be reprinted for preschool and basic
education (including grades 7-9). This subcomponent will also include the provision of books for classroom, school, public
and specialized (technical for MINED - e.g. curriculum, evaluation, etc. and for special education) libraries and didactic
materials (games and other hands-on materials) for preschool and special education programs.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) technical assistance required for the design of: (i) curriculum and
regulatory norns for the implementation of initial education; and (ii) the accelerated program; (b) printing of new materials
designed and reprinting of textbooks, manuals and student workbooks, mainly for accelerated and multigrade programs; and
(c) purchase of books and didactic materials for public, school, classroom and specialized libraries.
Subcomponent 2. FONDO ALEGRIA - US$0.8 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objective. The objective of this subcomponent is to establish a special program (Fondo Alegria) to support activities, to be
defined by the students, for improving learning and student participation at school.
Implementation arrangements. The Fondo Alegria is a strategy to make schools more attractive to children by
empowering them to design and propose their own small projects. An additional advantage of the fund is that children will
practice negotiation skills while reaching consensus on what they want to finance. A pilot will test the viability of a small
fund to be allocated through demand-driven mechanisms, which will transfer resources to school councils (CDEs and
CECEs) to finance the projects. The pilot will be set up in the poorest urban schools in marginal areas of San Salvador
where violence and gang activities are more prevalent and there are no alternative places for children to spend leisure time.
It will be extended in the second and third year to other marginal urban schools across the country.
Targeting. The Fondo Alegria will target schools in marginal urban areas across El Salvador where drop-out rates and
juvenile violence are high. The Fondo will be tested in the first year of the project through a pilot project in San Salvador,
covering approximately 100 schools. In the second and third years of the project, the Fondo will be extended to other
schools in marginal urban areas of the country, covering a total of approximately 3 00 schools (100 schools each year).
Benefits. Students of all three cycles of basic education are eligible to apply for the Fondo. Each year of the project, about
100 schools in marginal urban areas, will benefit from Fondo Alegria. A total of about 300 projects (3 projects per school)
will be financed (some 100 for each cycle (Cycles I -grades 1-3; II - grades 4-6; and III - grades 7-9). By 2001, the Fondo
will have supported a total of approximately 900 projects, benefiting some 300 schools.
Eligibility. Each school cycle is eligible to have a maximum of three sub-projects funded yearly. In order to obtain a larger
grant, students of two or more cycles can present one single project. In these cases, the grant cannot exceed the total
allocation for the school's Fondo Alegria. Each cycle will be granted a maximum total of US$517 (4,500 colones) yearlv.
Among others, the following activities will be supported:
* Grades 1-3: choirs, theater, dance activities, rhythimic gymnastics, reading clubs, arts, nurseries and gardening,
reforestation campaigns, research of traditional tales, collective creation of stories and tales, visits to museums,
recreation, research of traditional games;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 27
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Education Reform
* Grades 4-6: the above-mentioned activities, and newspaper boards (peri6dicos murales), health campaigns, creative
workshops, science fairs, recycling;
* Grades 7-9: the above-mentioned activities, and peer tutoring activities with smaller children, musical bands,
serigraphy, handicrafts, productive projects, community projects, environmental protection.
Selection of students'proposals. The proposals presented for each school by each different cycle will be chosen by the
students of that cycle, either by consensus or by competition. The school council (CDE or CECE) will support and
supervise this process.
Procedures. The proposals will be presented to the school council in a written format, describing the project's goals,
activities to be funded, time schedule and budget. All elected student representatives in each cycle will take responsibility
for presenting the project, which should be signed by all of them. The school council will check the information and the
treasurer of the school council will be in charge of the financial management required for the approved projects. Once the
project is finalized, the treasurer and the student representatives will report to all students on the project expenses.
Criteria. Activities to be funded by the proposals will benefit boys and girls equally. Religious and political activities will
not be funded. The fund will not finance any item already financed by the Bonos Escolares.
Financial mechanisms. Funds from the Fondo Alegria will be transferred to schools under the umbrella of the Bonos
Escolares, following the same financial transfer mechanisms. The National Directorate of Administration (DNA) will
supervise and monitor the operational aspects of the Fondo.
Evaluation. The Fondo will be evaluated through an impact analysis based on a comparison between a base line survey
conducted during its pilot phase and a survey conducted at the end of the project. Quantitative impacts to be measured are
dropout, repetition and academic performance of the children; qualitative impacts to be assessed are children's self-esteem,
sociability, capacity to negotiate, and resistance to frustration, among others.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) grants to support quality improvement activities (Fondo Alegria) defined
by the students; and (b) technical assistance to design: (i) the evaluation of the pilot program and (ii) materials to promote
the program.
Subcomponent 3. TEACHER TRAINING - US$3.4 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objective. This subcomponent will continue to support the teacher training activities developed through the Teacher
Training Centers, and selected schools for upgrading teachers to the new curriculum and teaching requirements defined by
the education reform program.
Implementation arrangements. In line with training models studied in other countries, in-service teachers will be prepared
to act as mentors for teaching interns enrolled in pre-service programs. The Teacher Training Centers will work closely
with local higher education institutions and NGOs contracted to provide training programs. Materials and methodologies
will be created and revised for the formation of trainers and to train teachers on curriculum reforms. In addition, MINED
will support actions to improve the pre-service teacher training programs developed by universities and other agencies. This
subcomponent will provide technical assistance to evaluate the current teacher training programs and strengthen the design
for the training of trainers to work with teachers (pre-service and in-service), directors, supervisors and parent associations
(ACEs, CDEs and CECEs).
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) technical assistance to evaluate and revise training programs; (b) logistical
support to provide supervision and follow-up of training; (c) training materials; (d) specialized training libraries; and (e)
other technical assistance and operation costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 28
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
Subcomponent 4. NATIONAL EVALUATION SYSTEM - US$2.4 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objectives. This sub-component will strengthen MINED's national evaluation system for basic education (secondary
education evaluation is being supported by the Secondary Education Project). Specifically, this subcomponent will: (a)
improve the process of data collection, systematization and analysis of education indicators; (b) revise and systematize the
implementation of achievement tests at the end of each basic education cycle (3rd, 6th and 9th grades); (c) apply the
achievement test each year to a sample of students from 3rd, 6th and 9th grades; (d) update and consolidate monthly data
generation with the purpose of supervising various programs for improving the efficiency and quality of basic education; (e)
design and apply an evaluation system to measure institutional management; (f) evaluate the existing programs and new
programs to be developed during the project to expand coverage and irnprove the quality of basic education; (g) provide
feedback of evaluation results to various groups; and (h) evaluate the impact of the project on the education svstem in El
Salvador.
Implementation arrangements. An important element of the current education reform prograrn is the use of evaluation as
a tool for providing feedback to the national education system and for developing an evaluation culture. The National
Directorate for Evaluation (Direcci6n Nacional de Evaluaci6n) is responsible for collecting, systematizing, analyzing and
dissemninating educational infornation to support policy-making by MINED. Over timne, this office has developed and
administered achievement tests for pre-school, and for the first and second cycles of basic education in mathematics,
language, natural science and social science. Tests are currently being developed for the third cycle in basic education.
The first Basic Education Modernization Project supported the development of a database forned from a nationally
representative sample of 311 basic education centers which includes exarnples of all the types of basic education centers in
El Salvador: pure EDUCO, mixed EDUCO/traditional, traditional public and private. This database combines data from
the 3rd grade mathematics and language achievement tests, education statistics about the schools and teachers, education
programs that have been implemented in the schools, and personal information about a sub-sample of tested students and
their families. This baseline data will be used for a series of longitudinal studies on such topics as: evaluations of various
education programs implemented in the country (Escuelas Saludables, Escuelas Modelo, Programa de Ahmentaci6n
Escolar); the impact of various education management systems (EDUCO, CDEs and CECEs); deternminants of repetition,
drop-out and promotion; the effect of parental participation on student achievement; and the costs of parental participation
in the various school management programs, among others.
In addition, the 1996 General Law for Education (Decree No. 917, December 1996) requires all secondary education
students to be tested prior to graduation. The first PAES tests (Prueba de Aptitudes y Habilidades de Estudiantes de la
Secundaria) were administered in October 1997 to 62,000 students. Results of the tests were provided to the individual
students, the institutes as a whole, and to the nation.
Financing. This sub-component will finance: (a) technical assistance required to design a statistical information and
evaluation system; (b) application of student achievement tests; (c) technical assistance to perform evaluations on the data
collected; and (d) dissemination of test results and other evaluations.
Subcomponent 5. SCHOOL HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS - US$1.0 million (total cost of
subcomponent)
Objectives. This subcomponent will evaluate the current Escuela Saludable program initiative, and train parents and
teachers in educational strategies to promote health and nutrition.
Implementation arrangements. The current school health and nutrition program will be pedagogically strengthened in all
public preschools and basic education schools in rural areas, including EDUCO schools. Health and nutrition activities
currently include health interventions, supported by the Ministry of Health, and school meal programs, for which food is
provided by the Secretary of Family Affairs. Other ministries also support the Escuela Saludable program. It is expected
that by the year 2000, the Escuela Saludable program will cover all EDUCO students. A pilot decentralized program also
has been implemented in 10 schools in rural areas over the last year where funds (bonos) are transferred directly to the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 29
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
schools to provide nutritional snacks to the students. Under the proposed project, MINED will provide training for teachers
and parents in health and nutrition issues. For example, the curriculum for the parent schools (as part of the initial
education program) will include a health and nutrition component as an educational strategy for teaching parents to better
care for their children.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) an evaluation of the current pilot program; (b) training programs for
teachers and parents; and (c) revision and reproduction of training materials.
Subcomponent 6. INFRASTRUCTURE - US$19.9 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objectives. Provision of physical infrastructure is necessary to meet the demand of communities in rural and marginal
urbaln areas and provide minimal infrastructure standards. In an effort to reach the goal of universal basic education for all
children and to improve the quality of the school environment, this subcomponent will: (i) replace education facilities that
are fuictioning in informal spaces (such as community centers) that are not pedagogically adequate, or in rented spaces; (ii)
rehabilitate, repair and/or remodel schools that are seriously dilapidated or require additional facilities to comply with the
reform program; and (iii) improve and strengthen effective implementation of the preventive maintenance program.
Implementation arrangements. This project will focus its primary attention on meeting the coverage needs of the EDUCO
program and attending to the existing deficit in infrastructure standards in the rural and marginal urban areas of extreme
poverty. Currently, 84% of the EDUCO schools do not have potable water and 70% do not have electricity. EDUCO
schools will be improved and expanded to cover the first two cycles of basic education. In many cases, this will imply
construction of up to four classrooms, functioning on a double shift. In addition, a preventive maintenance program will be
implemented in all new, rehabilitated, repaired and upgraded facilities to guarantee the efficiency and durability of
infrastructure investments. It will follow the guidelines of the Regular Preventive Maintenance Program designed and
initiated as part of the Social Sector Rehabilitation Project, which was financed by IBRD from 1990 to 1994. This
subcomponent will include training for community groups and parent associations (ACEs and CDEs), transfer of funds for
necessary repairs, distribution of a practical maintenance manual to support and guide the community's work, and
supervision and technical assistance. The project will be implemented by FIS or another implementation agent acceptable
to the Bank.
Financing (see Table 2.5). This subcomponent will finance: (a) expansion of 35 new classrooms in some EDUCO schools
where the service is not available or where new grades are required, including other support infrastructure to meet minimum
standards; (b) replacement of 177 rented makeshift or loaned schools (about 615 classrooms); (c) replacement of i18
makeshift or deteriorated classrooms in 119 MINED schools; (d) rehabilitation of approximately 259 classrooms in the
remaining schools of the public network; (e) equipment and furniture; (f) revision, printing and distribution of materials to
support the preventive maintenance program; and (g) technical assistance required to supervise the preventive maintenance
program.
Table 2.5 Infrastructure Expansion
10    _    35       177 1       615     119         181       72         259        1,090 1



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 30
Country: El Salvador                                                              Project Title: Education Reform
COMPONENT 3 - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND MODERNIZATION - US$40.0 million (total cost
of component)
Objective. This component will: (i) improve managerial capacity by supporting the articulated administration of the
education sector across the local, departmental and central levels, and by strengthening MINED's organization and
management support systems, with emphasis on establishing a financial planning and monitoring system; (ii) increase
school autonomy by developing a sustainable system for on-going school-based management initiatives, integrating school
planning, financial transfers, training and technical assistance, and accountability; and (iii) further develop communication
strategies to increase public awareness of and support for the basic education reform.
Indicators and Targets. The general indicators for this component are:
(a) revisions in administrative manuals to reflect new organizational roles and responsibilities at each level;
(b) adequate use of the financial planning and monitoring system;
(c) the number of staff trained at the departmental and district levels in planning and management skills;
(d) the number of ACE, CDE and CECE members trained; and
(e) the participation of teachers in monitoring the educational awareness campaign.
Subcomponent 1. MANAGERIAL CAPACITY BUILDING- US$3.5 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objective. This subcomponent will continue to support the modernization of MINED, with emphasis on strengthening the
Departmental and District units, and on establishing a Financial Planning and Monitoring System and will promote the
consolidation of an efficient communication and information system across levels.
Implementation arrangements. This subcomponent will be coordinated and monitored by MINED's Modernization Unit
and will emphasize the development of two major activities: (a) institutional strengthening of the departments and districts;
and (b) establishment of the Financial Planning and Monitoring System.
(a). Institutional Strengthening of the Departments and Districts. This activity will focus on the institutional
restructuring of the departments to improve the articulation of the various levels in the education system, as well as the
improvement of the administration and organization of departmental and education districts, the training and development of
departmental and district staff, and the systems required to improve the delivery of educational and supervisory services to
the school (including financial and personnel management).
(b). Financial Planning and Monitoring System. The objective of this activity is to develop a mechanism to systematically
monitor the performance of the education sector, including specific sub-parts directly related to EDUCO's target monitoring
requirements, and to evaluate proposed expenditure programs on an annual rolling basis. This includes: (i) development of
a Core Sector Monitoring System to collect information on costs, financing by various levels of government, communities
and donors, and other pertinent data in order to analyze cost-effectiveness of programs and to understand the impact of
expenditures on income distribution; (ii) preparation of annual Program Expenditure Reviews to examine budget
management and financial accountability, and the implications of decentralization on budget reform; and (iii) installation of
a Program Monitoring Unit (PMU) to coordinate the data collection, carry out specialized surveys, process and analyze the
data, and disseminate the data and analyses.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) technical assistance to: (i) carry out the institutional analysis of the
Departmental and District units; (ii) define the new role and activities of the Departmental offices; (iii) develop management
tools to improve MINED's organization and management support systems; (iv) develop the Financial Planning and
Monitoring System; and (v) contract specialized consultancies for the PMU, where qualified MINED staff cannot be found
and reallocated; (b) preparation of an operations manual; and (c) staff development activities for personnel in both central
and subnational units.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 31
Country: El Satvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reforrn
Subcomponent 2. SCHOOL AUTONOMY - US$35.8 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objective. This subcomponent aims at improving school autonomy through the ACEs (Community Education Associations)
in rural schools and the CDEs (School Councils) and CECEs (Catholic School Councils) in urban schools to assist in the
implementation of the current decentralization process and to foster improved understanding of and participation in the
education reform program by the civil society.
Implementation arrangements. To build on the success of the EDUCO program and the CDEs and CECEs, schools will
receive grants (Bonos Escolares) to better exercise their decision-making process. Systems and processes to transfer funds
to schools and communities will be reviewed and streamlined. To guarantee the efficient and effective use of transferred
resources, an accountability framework will be established that will include school self-assessment of annual results and
periodic random evaluations of impact and processes at the school level. This will monitor the impact of the grants on the
quality of the education provided. The implementation of the school autonomy program will be supported by training and
practical assistance to increase planning capacity of schools and their assessment of educational needs and inputs.
MINED's Modernization Unit and the DNA (Direcci6n Nacional de Administraci6n) will be responsible for monitoring,
auditing and evaluating this subcomponent.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) technical assistance to revise the legal, administrative and educational
technical procedures to elaborate the necessary tools to support school autonomy; (b) training of 30,000 ACE members,
50,000 CDE members and 900 CECE members; (c) revision, printing and distribution of training materials; and (d)
financial resources for school grants (Bonos Escolares).
Subcomponent 3. COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES - US$0.7 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Objective. This subcomponent will strengthen MINED's educational awareness campaign and will encourage wider
participation of teachers in support of educational reforms and foster positive community attitudes toward education.
Implementation arrangements. The country's experience has demonstrated that well-designed communication and public
awareness programs are key tools for implementing the reform program. MINED has successfully designed these types of
strategies in the implementation of the reform at the basic education level. These strategies will be reviewed and revised to
include promotion of initial education and school readiness issues. In addition, teachers will be more involved in providing
feedback, through the edition of MINED's new magazine and with focus groups and questionnaires, to ensure effectiveness
of the awareness campaign.
Financing. This subcomponent will finance: (a) technical assistance to revise communication and public awareness
programs; (b) materials for the programs and for seminars and conferences (areas to be determined); and (c) required
training.
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION - US$3.4 million (total cost of component)
This component will finance: (a) operation costs and (b) equipment, office supplies and vehicles.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 32
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 2B
El Salvador: Education Reform Program
Phasing the Education Reform Program
In 1992, with the signing of the Peace Accords, the Government of El Salvador (GOES) committed its resources to the
reconstruction of the country. Education was identified as a key determinant to foster economic growth, strengthen
democracy and consolidate the peace process. Priority has been given to a national education reform program and three
important laws have been passed to ensure legal backing and support for education: the Higher Education Law (Ley de
Educaci6n Superior-December 1995) which defines the higher education system and the foundation for pre-service teacher
training programs; the Teachers' Career Law (Ley de la Carrera Docente-March 1996) which establishes the teachers'
career system and requires that schools be administered by "school councils" (CDEs) composed of parents, teachers and
student members; and the General Education Law (Ley General de Educaci6n-December 1996) which emphasizes
universal basic education, better educational quality, and strengthened school autonomy through parent participation.
In November 1995, a Ten-Year Education Plan was released which outlines the Government's goals and strategies for
education until the year 2005 (see Table 2.6). The major initiatives proposed for this period are to increase equity,
efficiency and quality of education at all levels by carrying out the following:
(a) Increase preschool education enrollment from 40% to 60%;
(b) Increase access to include 95% of all children ages 7 to 12, giving priority to rural and marginal urban populations,
(c) Decrease the age-grade distortion to 10%;
(d) Increase student performance consistently at all levels, as measured by the National Evaluation System;
(e) Increase the coverage of special education programs;
(f) Increase coverage by 15% and improve the quality of the upper secondary education programs;
(g) Increase by 20% the number of schools that offer Grades 1 to 6, thereby increasing the years of schooling for students
in rural areas (EDUCO schools);
(h) Increase coverage of basic and secondary education by 10% through distance education programs;
(i) Decrease illiteracy from 25% in 1995 to 15% by the year 2005;
(j) Continue to support education programs to improve nutrition and health, such as the "escuelas saludables" program;
(k) Increase and strengthen participation of the community and parents, NGOs and municipalities in the delivery of
education services;
(1) Increase school autonomy through improved mechanisms for administration, planning and participation of ACEs,
CDEs and CECEs.
The draft of a National Development Plan, under preparation by a multi-party high level commission appointed by the
President, confirms the tenets of the Ten-Year Education Plan and emphasizes the role of education for sustainable growth
It also stresses the need to increase public funding for basic education, and to raise the GDP allocation for education from
2.6% in 1997 to 3.2% by 2005.
Table 2.6 Targets of the Ten-Year Education Plan (1995-2005)
Illiteracy                                           25%                 15%
Preschool Education enrollment (ages 4-6)            40%                 60%
- Net enrollment                                    85%                 95%
- Dropout rate                                       9%                  2%
- Repetition rate                                   10%                  1%
- Age-grade distortion                              20%                 10%
(students with more than 2 age-grade distortions)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 33
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
In continued support of the Government's efforts to achieve the goals established in the Ten-Year Education Plan, the Bank
will assist MINED by way of a new Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation. The proposed Education Reform
Project establishes medium-range goals and frames the project within the Education Reform Program. Each phase in the
program is expected to respond to the same development objectives established in the ongoing Basic Education
Modernization Project, targeted investments and expansion of successful pilot projects and innovative approaches.
Subsequent phases of the program would be subject to comprehensive evaluation processes upon completion and appraisal
processes, incorporating lessons learned and experience gained during implementation of the previous phase. The Program
approach will allow for a more flexible project design and financing that can be reviewed and adapted over time. Key
trigger indicators for sector policy and for implementation have been defined (see Tables 2.7 and 2.8). Triggers will be
determinant factors for the continuation of the Program and/or the expansion of activities in a specific part of the Program.
Preliminary triggers for the Education Reform Program are as follows*:
Table 2.7 Trigger Indicators
Coverage
Preschool                            40            45            55            60
Basic Education - Cycles 1 & 2       85             90           92            95
(Ages 7-12)
Complete Basic Education             85             87           89            90
(Grades 1-9; Ages 7-15)     _
Illiteracy rates                     24            22            20            15
Repetition rates                      4              3            2             1
Dropout rates                         4.5            3.5          2.5           2
*Note: Although the program has been divided into three phases, it is possible that these may change
according to implementation experiences. The number of phases may increase or decrease, although
the targets for each year would remain the same.
Table 2.8 Policy Triggers
*  Continue the decentralization process in the provision of education services through the ACEs
(EDUCO program) in rural schools and the CDEs and CECEs in urban schools, increasing the
community participation in the delivery of these services
*  Increase efficiency in the use of education funds
*  Continue support for school-based management strategies through transfer of school grants
(Bonos Escolares)
Education Reform Project - Phase I
The Education Reforrn Project (1999-2001) will finance Phase 1 of the Education Reform Program (1999-2005). This
project will focus on expansion of coverage to include all seven-year-old children in rural areas not enrolled in the system,
provision of an initial education program in rural and marginal urban areas, and the establishment of accelerated programs
to move over-age students through school more quickly, thus unclogging the system and creating more openings for future
entrants. Most importantly, all the EDUCO schools currently operating in inadequate spaces will be rehabilitated or
constructed to meet minimum infrastructure and furniture standards.
This project will also include the preparation of instruments for accelerated and initial education programs, the
development, training and pilot testing of these initiatives and the mechanisms for sustainability of the inmovations,
including the Fondo Alegria. It will also complement the development of materials, testing and evaluation activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 34
Country: El Salvador                                                                  Project Title: Education Reform
implementation strategies, and training already initiated in the Basic Education Modernization Project.
The following triggers have been established for Phase I (1999-2001), and should be reached before or by the end of
December 2001:
(a) Over 30% of all 7 year-old children will be enrolled (rural and urban areas;
(b) Pilot program accelerates promotion of at least 5% of the over-age students;
(c) 46% of the EDUCO schools operating in 1997 will be rehabilitated or constructed, according to the school mapping
exercise;
(d) All the schools established during the period will have operating ACEs, CDEs or CECEs accordingly;
(e) Bonos Escolares will be transferred to schools to support school autonomy;
(f) MINED will have reviewed and streamlined mechanisms to transfer funds to schools;
(g) At least 7 of the 14 Departments will be operating under the new functions established by the Modernization Program.
Additional Phases
It is expected that further projects to be prepared by the Education Reform Program will provide financing for additional
phases for the same schools and municipalities supported under the first project and for additional schools established
during this period. Subsequent loans could proceed if the policy framework and policy triggers are maintained, at least 50%
of the loan funds for the first project are disbursed, and at least 50% of the targets listed above are achieved. The additional
phases would finance activities to ensure achievement of the targets established in the Ten-Year Education Plan.
For the subsequent phases of the Program, the expansion of an additional 181 classrooms in some 60 schools, the
replacement of the remaining 184 schools (approximately 871 classrooms), and the replacement of some 331 classrooms im
195 MINED schools, including furniture and equipment, will be required (see Table 2.9)
Table 2.9 Infrastructure Expansion for All Phases
Phase I        10         35       177        615       119          181       72          259          1,090
PhaseII|       60        181       184        871       195          331        0            0          1,383
and III                  216      31434172,7
jTOTAL  j      70         216      361       1,486       314         512        72         259          2,7



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 35
Country: El Salvador                                                           Project Title: Education Reforn.
Annex 3
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Components                                    Local         Foreign        Total
-----US $ '000-----
A. Expansion of Access and Coverage
Establishment of EDUCO sections                         13,339.1      325.0     13,664.1
Initial education                                         356.9       356.9        713.8
Accelerated and alternative (multigrade) classrooms      6,963.0    1,343.5      8,306.5
B. Quality Improvements
Curriculum                                               3,997.0    2,440.0      6,437.0
Fondo Alegria                                             675.0        75.0        750.0
Educational materials                                    1,646.5   14,818.9     16,465.4
Training programs                                        2,734.3      363.5      3,097.8
National Evaluation System                               1,172.5    1,172.5      2,345.0
Health and nutrition education                            746.3       154.7        901.0
Infrastructure                                          11,559.6    6,125.7     17,685.3
C. Institutional Strengthening and Modernization
Management capacity strengthening                        1,582.9    1,700.6      3,283.5
School autonomy                                         29,649.6    4,708.6     34,358.2
Communication strategies                                  350.0      350.0         700.0
D. Project Administration                                2,765.0     514.8       3,279.8
Total Baseline Cost                                     77,537.7   34,449.7    111,987.4
Physical Contingencies                                1,915.3    1,410.4       3,425.7
Price Contingencies                                   2,853.0      983.4       3,836.4
Total Project Cost                                      82,306.0   36,843.5    119,149.5



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 30
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 4
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Economic Analysis
The economic benefits of the project will stem from the increased coverage and improved infrastructure and quality of basic
education. The institutional strengthening component will help to ensure that the promised benefits are indeed delivered.
The economic analysis presented in this section is focused on those benefits which can reasonably be quantified. Models
and tables containing details of the economic analysis are available in the project files.
I. Context
The El Salvador Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1997 puts emphasis on the education sector to meet the goal of
"competitiveness for all." The CAS states, "The Bank's strategy will thus focus heavily on education and support for
Government efforts to create a learning society." A World Bank report which examined labor market conditions in El
Salvador states, "The lack of skilled workers and low productivity is the Icey bottleneck to accelerating growth and the
leading problem in labor markets."3 A recent Rural Development Study indicates that "the rural poor in El Salvador have
the worst basic needs indicators," with primary education being one of the areas of deficiency.4 Finally, a study of sector-
wide returns to education indicated that the highest returns to education continue to flow to primary education.5 The CAS
describes a strategy of supporting primary education in rural El Salvador, together with an expansion and reform of
secondary education (see Project Appraisal Document No. 16991-ES, August 7, 1997). Within the context of primary
education, the project is focused on the EDUCO model of school-based decentralized provision of education, which has
proved to be a convincing means of providing education to rural El Salvador. However, some of the project components,
such as quality improvement through curriculum redesign and teacher training, affect all primary schools.
11. Cost-Benefit Analysis
The economic analysis has given a symmetric treatment to the cost and benefit streams from the three components of
coverage, infrastructure and quality (the pilot program of accelerated learning is treated differently as the pilot will last only
for three years). This enables the calculation of a total stream of economic returns. It is estimated that the base case
Internal Rate of Return would be 20.40%, with a Net Present Value of US$298.53 million. The Net Present Value has
been calculated throughout this analysis using a discount rate of 10%. In a pessimistic scenario, with incremental earnings
being only half of that used in the base case, and an unemployment rate of 25% through the lifetime of project
beneficiaries, the project would still be profitable at an IRR of 11%. The cost-benefit analysis by component is detailed
below. As the beneficiaries for each component are not identical, only the monetary flow of costs and benefits can be
aggregated across the components.
A. Benefits from Expanded Coverage
The project provides for expanded coverage of basic education through the establishment of new and expanded sections of
EDUCO schools. A total of 2,065 new sections for pre-school and basic education are proposed to be established over
three years. Approximately 150 of the sections are being planned for pre-primary education, but these have not been
considered in the economic analysis. These new sections are estimated to yield an increase in educational access to about
61,000 students (17,088 in the First Grade up to the Year 2001). The Internal Rate of Return for the component of the
project which increases the coverage of basic education is estimated to be 23.45 % and the Net Present Value is estimated to
be US$114.95 million.
3El Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of Globalization, World Bank Country Study, August 19967
4El Salvador Rural Development Study Report No. 16253-ES, August 7, 1997.
5 Private Returns to Primary Education were estimated at 30% by George Psacharopoulos in Secondary Education in El Salvador: A
Justification for its Expansion, HDD Work-in-Progress, July 28, 1997. The primary source of information for this paper is the 1996
Household Survey (Encuesta de Hogares de Prop6sitos Mzltiples, 1996).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 37
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Assumptions underlying Cost-Benefit Analysis
* Primary Education leads to an increment of US$566 in Annual Labor Earnings, as computed from Household Survey
data. Figure 1 at the end of this economic analysis shows a non-parametric cubic spline regression of earnings
against age for different levels of education. 6
* Costs include direct costs as well as opportunity costs. The total economic cost per student is taken to be US$306 per
year.
* The age of 16 is taken to be the age of entry into the labor force. Students are assumed to progress through school on
time, entering Grade 1 at age 7 and leaving Grade 9 at age 15.
* The working life is taken to be from the age of 16 to the age of 60, with no allowance made in the base case analysis
for unemployment.
* Demand for school places which will be created due to the establishment of new EDUCO sections is assumed not to
be a constraint. This assumption is made because the EDUCO program is a school-based management program,
where a new section is established in a given school only after the particular rural community has made repeated
requests for the establishment of such a section.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
* If the increment in earnings due to Primary Education is only US$283 or 50% of that assumed in the base case, the
IRR will fall to 13.13% and the Net Present Value will be US$23.92 million.
* The point where the Internal Rate of Return reaches 10% (or the Net Present Value reaches zero) would be with a
63% reduction in the estimated increment, to about US$209 per year.
* If the unemployment rate were 25% for all the project beneficiaries, the IRR would be 18.52% and the NPV would
be US$69.43 million. (The most recently available actual unemployment rate in El Salvador was 7.5% in 1996. The
highest unemployment rate in the past 10 years was a rate of 10% in 1990.)
* The point where the Internal Rate of Return reaches 10% (or the Net Present Value reaches zero) would be with an
unemployment rate of 50% for all project beneficiaries and a 25% reduction in the earnings increment, from US$566
per year to $417 per year.
B. Benefitsfrom Creating Infrastructurefor EDUCO Schools
The process of establishment of EDUCO schools has been detailed in a number of World Bank documents (for instance,
see Report No. 13502-ES "El Salvador Community Education Strategy: Decentralized School Management," The World
Bank, 1994). Demand for school places has increased at a higher rate than the traditional educational system had
resources with which to provide the basic infrastructure of a school building and even the essential school furniture. With
a tradition of community support, EDUCO sections have been established in diverse locations ranging from church
buildings to farm houses. With access in this way becoming nearly universal, attention has turned to the provision of
basic infrastructure to the most needy communities.
Under the current project, infrastructure improvements are being planned to benefit students from 1,090 classrooms in
dire need. The economic analysis accounts for 1,055 or 97% of the new classrooms for which the number of beneficiaries
was identified by the Ministry of Education. The needs have been established by a school mapping exercise which is part
of a larger IDB-funded project to develop a comprehensive Geographic Information System (GIS) which keeps track of
progress in Poverty Reduction. The IRR for this component of the project is estimated to be 15.09%, with a Net Present
Value (at a 10% discount rate) of US$15.5 million.
6The spline regression used here is essentially a graphic device to smooth an otherwise jagged curve. The algorithm for a spline
regression puts varying weights on the second and third derivatives of an interpolated line joining adjacent points in a scatter plot.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 3i3
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Education Reform
Assumptions underlying Cost-Benefit Analysis
* Infrastructure improvements will lead to an improvement in student learning. Economic Production Function analysis
indicates sizable improvements in academic achievement, such as a 12% increase in test scores due to provision of
student desks.7
* In turn, brighter and more able students are assumed to be more productive and earn a higher wage in the labor
market. A 10% increase in the increment of US$566 attributed to primary schooling is assumed. The benefit per
student is thus US$56.6 per year.
* Other program benefits, such as increased efficiency leading to fewer lost days in school or reduced absenteeism have
not been included in the analysis, although the full program cost is included.
* The projected infrastructure improvements are projected to have a life of 20 years. The capital cost of this component
is thus apportioned across a group of students which increases in size to reach a steady state 20 years after the initial
investment period.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
* The IRR would fall to 10% if the projected earning benefit per person were US$28.16 per year. This would be the
case if the earning benefits due to infrastructure were less than 5% of the primary school increment of US$566 being
assumed through the analysis.
C. Benefits from Improved Quality
The impressive increases in access to schooling in the past decade in El Salvador have not been accompanied by
performance in terms of academic achievement. Evidence of the current low quality can readily be obtained from the
results of tests administered to a random sample of students in 1996.8 As an example, among third grade students, nearly
one-third of the students failed to meet even a single objective in the language test, and one-third of the students reached
two or fewer objectives of the possible 10 in mathematics. Though there admittedly have been some testing problems,
poor infrastructure facilities, inadequate instructional materials, and teachers lacking requisite training are factors behind
this low performance. Part of the project finances will be used to improve the National Evaluation System.
The benefits due to quality improvements are assumed to lead to higher academic achievement, and eventually to take the
form of higher productivity and an increase in the earnings differential due to primary schooling. The IRR for the quality
improvement component is estimated to be 19.88%, and the Net Present Value (at a 10% discount rate) is US$168.08
million.
Assumptions underlying Cost-Benefit Analysis
* Quality improvements will lead to an improvement in student learning. Improvements such as curriculum reform and
the availability of Bonos de Escolares for parent associations will lead to improved student performance in
magnitudes not known beforehand.9
* In turn, brighter and more able students are assumed to be more productive and earn a higher wage in the labor
market. A 10% increase in the increment of US$566 attributed to primary schooling is assumed. The benefit per
student is thus US$56.6 per year.
* Quality improvement will lead to efficiency gains in terms of lower repetition and drop-out rates, but these have not
been included in the benefit computation.
7A Hierarchical Linear Model (HLM) was run on the two scores available - Mathematics and Language Third Grade scores.
controlling for student, family and school characteristics. Full results are available in project files.
sInforme de Evaluaci6n del Rendimiento en 30, 40y 60 Grado de Educaci6n Basica, MINED, February 1997.
9Quality improvement through schemes such as the Bono Escolar, the Fondo Alegria and Aulas Aceleradas has the potential for
immense gains when taken to scale. To obtain the greatest gains from these programs, carefully designed evaluation studies form part
of the project. This would include a study with a matched case-control panel design to accurately identify the impact of these
innovative interventions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 3P
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
* The capital cost portion of the expenditure for this component (nearly US$10 million) is apportioned over 10 years, at
which time, and for subsequent 10 year intervals, an equivalent injection of capital expenditure is projected.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
*  The earnings improvement due to quality improvement would have to fall to US$25.55 per person, or about 4.5% of the
earnings differential due to Primary Education, in order for the IRR to fall to the border line value of 10%.
D. Benefits from Accelerated Programs for Over-age Students
There are an estimated 170,271 "over-age" students enrolled in the nine grades of Primary Education.10 The presence of
these students, who typically have a history of intermittent attendance, high repetition and early drop-out, leads to
inefficiencies in the educational system. One of the subcomponents of the project is to set up an innovative pilot programi
to accelerate promotion of overage students. The subcomponent borrows from the methodology of participatory learning
with the help of activity guides which has been successfully implemented in EDUCO multigrade classrooms, called "aulas
alternativas" in El Salvador.
The pilot part of the program will fund the establishment of "aulas aceleradas, " which will use an accelerated curriculum
to boost students' learning while reducing the time they will spend in school. The pilot program will set up 390 sections for
over-age students over three years from 1999. The cost per student under this program will be about US$714 per year.
However, the program is based on accelerating a student's progress through the grades, so that a student will typically
advance two grades in one year. It is estimated that the program will yield a saving of about US$3 10 per over-age student in
the first grade, with progressively lower savings based on the years left for a student to complete basic education up to the
ninth grade. The pilot itself is estimated to yield a saving of about US$3 million.
The expansion of the program to scale, assuming that the unit costs will be the same as those of the pilot, would lead to an
estimated savings of US$60 million, against a base case scenario where the problem of over-age students is not treated at
all, and where the program will lead to the correction of age-grade distortion in a period of 5 years after the pilot.
In order that the maximum efficiency gains are made from the intervention, and given the phased nature of this project, a
scientifically designed experimental evaluation will be carried out to evaluate the impact of the program. The study wiil
include a control group and a randomly selected evaluation group which will receive the intervention. Surveys carried out
at the baseline and interim stages will enable the quantifiable monitoring of the program, which in turn will lead to greater
efficiency gains when the program is taken to scale.
10 Students who are more than 2 years older than the age appropriate for a grade based on timely enrollment and on-time progress
through the grades. For example, the number of First Grade students older than 9 years are included in this definition, as are
Second Grade students older than 10 years.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 40
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows
Benefits: US$413.43 Million, in 1999
Costs: US$114.91 Million, in 1999
Net Benefits: US$298.53 Million, in 1999
IRR: 20.40%
Summary of Benefits and Costs
Benefits: Increased Labor Market Earnings due to Primary Education. Externalities are not included as benefits, nor is the
option value of Secondary Education included.
Costs: The full program costs, including capital and recurrent costs beyond the Bank lending operation, have been included.
as well as imputed opportunity costs.
Following standard practice, every attempt has been made to be conservative with regard to the benefits, so that estimates
reported here are really lower bounds.
Main Assumptions:
These are detailed in the economic analysis. The main assumption is that Primary education leads to higher productivity uf
individuals, as captured by the earnings differential from a cross section of individuals currently in the labor market. It is
also assumed that investment in school quality leads to more able students who become more productive workers. Evidence
related to the assumptions is available in the project files.
Sensitivity Analysis/Switching Values of critical items:
The earnings premium due to education is subject to fluctuations because of changes in the relative demand and supply
positions of skilled workers; the cost-benefit analysis checks for robustness of the findings to changes in this crucial
variable. The analysis also checks for unemployment rates. The project would remain viable with an IRR of ii  % if
Unemployment were 25% and the education premium only half of that computed from the Household Survey estimates.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                          Page 41
Country: El Salvador                                                                                                          Project Title: Education Reform
Figure 1                   1
AGE- EARNINGS PROFILE IN EL SALVADOR
SPLINE REGRESSION EARNINGS FUNCTIONS
6000
5 5 0 0 --- ---- --  ---- --- -4- ---- --- ----   ---   4--  ---  --4   ----  ---   ---  ---   -- - ---   ---
l ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   I
I                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II
T                   I- -  - - - - I- - -  -  - --   - - - -  --  -  -
5000
I                   I             I             I            II
5000  ----------------- t - -- -- ----t---------t------   -------------- i------------- i----      - -1--- -- -----
4500  ------T
Cu     45I 000    -- -------- -------I---I--------------------
II          - - -  -              I - - - -  - -4
co 42000  ----- -                                               Secondary            l
_    500              ---------    T----                   ---- 1                 |         
1 0 0 0     -                    --  -- ;  ---  --  -   --  -  -  -   ------    ----I- --- ---I--    --  --- I--   ---  --
s-Primary 
3000-                                                                                                      1'!<|,    
I     :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2500             -                                     ---
°      1         T   1|    11                                 11 
16  21  26          31           36            41            46           51            5
Age in Years2



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 42
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 5
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Financial Analysis
Table 5.1. Project Cost and Financing
(US$ Million)
Concept                     Implementation Period                 Operational Period
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
Project Costs (US$fillion)
Investment Costs        33.2  24.2   8.9  23.4  24.3  11.6   8.5      0     0      0    0      0
RecurrentCosts         15.4  18.2  19.3  23.4  24.3  11.6   8.5   8.5   8.5   8.5  8.5   8.5
Total           48.6  42.4  28.2  46.8  48.6  23.2  17.0   8.5   8.5   8.5   8.5  8.5
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA                 87    74    51    61    59    56   53        0     0      0     0     0
Govemnment               13   26    49    39    41    44   47   100   100   100   100   100
Total            100   100   100   100   100   100  100   100   100   100   100   100
*Note: Induced recurrent costs for 2005 are assumed to be maintained for 2006-2010.
Overview.
In the 1980s, education expenditures declined sharply both in terms of the share of GDP (from 3.3% in 1978 to 1.6% in
1988) and of government expenditures (from about 28% in the early 1970s to about 11% in the late 1980s). This was
partially the result of the civil strife, but mostly a reflection of the generally low priority assigned by the government to the
sector. While the trend in education spending has reversed and shown an increase in recent years, to 1.8% of GDP and 13%
of govermment expenditure in 199411, it still represents a significant underinvestment in human capital. Compared to other
Central American countries, only Guatemala spends a lower share of GDP on education, and considerable scope exists for
further increasing its budgetary allocation. Also, no other country in Latin America has lower public per capita
expenditures in education (adjusted for purchasing power parity) than El Salvador. Costa Rica and Panama, for instance,
spend over five times as much as El Salvador (see Table 5.2)
Since 1989, the Government has made great progress in rehabilitating the education system, concentrating on basic
education programs in the rural areas, improvement of the quality of curriculum for basic education, decentralization of
education services, and community participation in the implementation of projects. Yet, much remains to be done for El
Salvador to achieve universal basic education and for sector performance to reach its potential and better prepare entrants
for higher levels of education and the labor market. To address these issues, the GOES' development plan aims to raise
education spending to 3% of GDP and 21% of public spending by the turn of the century, which coincides with the end of
the first phase of the project. These levels will be maintained until 2005, the end of the project's implementation life.
Projections
Even under conservative growth assumptions for GDP and public expenditures, the financial burden of the project and
education program are manageable (see Table 5.3). The cost of the project amounts to about 9% of the estimated education
sector expenditures during Phase 1 of implementation, and to less than 6% during subsequent impoementation phases.
Estimates by year also show that the impact of the project on the MINED budget would not represent an excessive burden
at any point during project implementation or later on during the operation years. Overall, proposed expenditures undet the
project comprise an even balance of investment and recurrent expenditures, which is expected given the high emphasis on
the introduction of quality-enhancing mechanisms and school-based management strategies. In Phase 1, approximately
US$66 million or 56% of project costs are for investments while some US$53 million are slated for recurrent costs. In
subsequent implementation phases, the investment share is expected to decline to about 50% of overall costs. Recurrent
expenditures generated by the project between 1999 and 2005 amount, on average, to 4.3% of sector recurrent expenditures.
" Estimates for 1997 show the share of education in GDP and in government expenditures, respectively, rising to 2.6% and 19.1%,
respectively.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Pago 43
Country: El Salvador                                                                       Project Title: Education Reform
Financing from IBRD will decline from 73.8% of total cost in Phase I to 58% in subsequent phases.
Table 5.2. Comparison: Public Education Expenditures
..5E3iExpead0  lr               i.. ..... .                 u
...3g..... 3 ...3.... .....  iB8 .   0.   ......
Costa Rica              253                 4.7                 19              1991
Guatemala               55                  1.6                 16              1995
Honduras                78                  4.0                 15              1992
El Salvador**           48                  2.0                 13              1994
Nicaragua               68                  3.8                 18              1992
Mexico                  408                 5.8                 14              1991
Panama                  269                 4.7                 17              1992
Note: US$adjste for.purchasing poe prt.............
**E Salvdor' edcto.xediuea.ecntg.fGPws .%i  97
The education~.... program fo the..   peidprle.gteimlmnainyaso.tepoeti.hw.n  al  ..A  tek
inth  ea  00,th  rorm   oldrprsnt32%o.GP wic  s   ul  eretaepon aoe h  19  lvlUnKoe
on-hl o   prcnag   oitabvete simte  evlfo  99. h brenofeuctonepediueso te uli.eco
sector expen stre,ESalvdrrmiswl  eo eta America's4.    avrg1i9hr ofeuctoni 1GP
side, ducat ondre resnsan vrg   f2%o  vrlugtepniues78in the peid1992059nresn2 fo   h
smalnessoftEl Salvadoran puli8eco an2 emne0o  h nedt1nres              3vrl pulcreeus9Tepesn4o
share oftaxesEi G avincreass edcthe n likelioditof  as successultaxe reform.a   6 n97



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 44
Country: El Salvador                                                                             Project Trtle: Education Refcrm
Table 5.3. Financial Impact of the Education Program and Project
(Colones Billion)
:   : IS    1!Z_ 199_ 200  001 2O01 200~ 20040
GDP             100.0  110.4  117.1  127.2  137.3  148.6  159.1  171.2  185.6  198.6  213.8  231.6  247.9  266.
Total Public
Budget 1/       13.6  15.7  16.6  17.7  19.2  20.9  22.3  24.0  26.0  27.8  30.0  32.5  34.7  37 .4
Education
Budget 1/       2.6   3.0   3.4   4.0   4.0   4.4   4.8   5.3   5.9   6.2   6.7   7.3   7.9   8.4
Project Cost                 0.43   0.37   0.25   0.41   0.42   0.2   0.14   0.09   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08
Education
Budget as share
of GDP (%)
= ____________  2.6   2.7   2.9   3.1   2.9   3.0   3.0   3.1   3.2   3.1   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2
Education
Budget as share
of Public Budget
(%)             19.1  19.1  20.5  22.6  20.8  21.1  21.5  22.1  22.7  22.3  22.3  22.5  22.8  22.5
Project Cost as
share of
Education
Budget (%)     _              12.7  9.3   6.3   9.3   8.7   3.8   2.3   1.5   1.2   1.1   1.01   0.9
1/ Consolidated budget includes extraordinary budget's expenditures and excludes ordinary budget transfer expenditures.
2/ Assumnes that nominal GDP and public budget grow, respectively, at an average of 7.8% and 8.2%, respectively,
between 1997 and 2007.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 45
Country: El Salvador                                                                Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 6
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Social Assessment
Summary Major Findings and Recommendations from the Social Assessment (SA)
1.    Two social assessments of the education system were undertaken recently by MINED as part of the preparation and
implementation of the first Basic Education Project. A third one was carried out in 1997 in preparation for the Secondary
Education Project. The main education stakeholders were identified and consulted and social analysis was conduicted
accordingly. Since then, MINED has engaged local NGOs and research institutions to provide participatory analysis of
specific aspects of the education system as a means of monitoring and adapting projects and programs currently being
implemented and suggesting new activities for the proposed Education Reform Project. Among others, the following studies
have been prepared as the basis for the social assessment for the Education Reform Project: (a) Socioeconomic
Characteristics of Children and Teenagers in El Salvador; (b) You Learn, I Teach: Education Practices in Salvadoran
Classrooms; (c) Roles and Functions of Education Stakeholders; (d) Teachers' Profile and Pedagogical Methodologies of
Successful Teachers; (e) Youngsters in a Situation of Social Exclusion; (f) Profile of Education Centers: E,DUCO,
Traditional Schools and the Private Sector; and (g) Quantitative Analysis of Student Performance. In addition to findings
from these studies, the SA recommendations are also based upon meetings with several education NGOs and research
institutions and a field visit to a summer school where an informal meeting with a group of students was held.
Main Findings and Recommendations for the Project
2.     MINED has introduced to the school curriculum a specific component of studies on values, giving special attention
to generosity, cooperation, friendship, veracity, trust, loyalty and kindness. To promote these values, teaching materials
were developed. However, the material is too theoretical and does not seem to apply to the reality of either students or
teachers. In addition, they require complementary material such as videos, overheads, tapes, etc., which are not yet
available. MINED's program should be strengthened and MINED should support studies on values through the quality
component, including teacher training. In addition, MINED should coordinate its efforts in this area with similar efforts by
some education NGOs. For example, FUNPRES has the program Respuesta Creativa al Conflicto, made up of three
different activities: first, those to stimulate self-esteem, cooperation and communication; second, conflict mediation; and
third, activities that lead to the insertion into teaching practices of what was learned.
3.     MINED has a policy of "equal opportunities" which covers gender equity issues. For instance, all teaching
materials make use of gender neutral language and try not to enforce gender stereotypes. A FEPADE study concluded that:
(a) the majority of principals and teachers manifest the belief that there are no differences between girls and boys regarding
their role, capacity and responsibilities as students; (b) teachers and principals also agree that there are no distinctions
between boys and girls regarding education performance and achievement; nonetheless: (c) teachers require boys to
participate and answer questions more frequently than girls; (d) accordingly, girls' participation in classrooms is less
frequent than boys' participation; (e) by using masculine articles, adjectives and nouns, teachers exclude girls (and women)
from their speech; and (f) stories told and exercises given still make use of stereotyped male and female roles. MINED
should be supported in its ongoing effort, by incorporating these issues as part of the teacher training program. Lessons
could be drawn from other countries that are experimenting successfully in this area. In addition, MINED should also
challenge the stereotypes' inertia, for example, through use of teaching materials that show women performing roles that are
considered traditionally male, and vice-versa.
4.     Since 1992, MINED, with UN support, has structured a program on Educacidn en Poblaci6n, whose main purpose
is to transform behaviors related to demographic facts within families and society. Through this program, teaching
materials are being developed, including videos and posters; teachers are being trained on sexual education issues; and
information on these topics, including reproduction, is being provided to families and students. However, this program has
shortcomings because: (a) teaching materials are insufficient to cover all schools in El Salvador; (b) teacher training is



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 46
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Educatior, Reform
unsatisfactory and teachers resent having to deal with such delicate issues; and (c) many parents are unwilling to have their
children receive sexual education, which increases teachers' uneasiness. The Quality component of the project should
support this program. Specifically, it should support the national network, Nexos Facilitadores de Educacidn en
Poblaci6n, which has proven to be a successful, but limited, means of addressing the reluctance of teachers to teach sexual
education and of increasing parents' awareness of the importance of having their children informed about reproduction,
reproductive health, and AIDS and STD prevention. The escuelas de padres also provide a good opportunity fer
discussing with parents ways to deal with these issues in their daily interaction with their children.
5.     Very often students are those who decide to drop out of schools, manifesting their unhappiness with experiences
that sometimes include violence from teachers and their peers, recurrent repetition and boredom. Students say that their
ideal school is a place where they can play, that has trees and plants, and where the teachers are kind and patient. In order
to make schools more attractive to children, as a preventive measure to discourage them from dropping out, and as a way of
teaching them how to reach consensus and face frustration with non-violent solutions, the SA recommends that a program
be created (Fondo Alegria) to support special quality improvement activities, designed and implemented by the students
themselves.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 47
Country: El Salvador                                                                   Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 7
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements(a)
(in US$ million equivalent)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Expenditure Category                                     Consulting
ICB       NCB        Other      Services     NBF    Total
1. Civil Works                      13.2        5.6 (b)                          18.8
(11.2)      (4.8)                           (16.0)
2. Goods
a. Equipment            1.1       1.6         0. 7 (c)                         3.4
and Furniture       (1.1)      (1.4)      (0.6)                            (3.1)
b. Vehicles                                   0.3(d)                           0.3
(0.3)                           (0.3)
3. Consultants'                                             10.2(e)              10.2
Services and Studies                                       (10.2)               (10.2)
4. Training                          LO)        6.9(g)       6.1                 14.6
(1.6)      (6.9)       (6.1)                (14.6)
5. Miscellaneous:
Books, Printing and       17.0       1.6        4.7(h)                  7.7      31.0
Distribution Services    (17.0)     (1.6)      (4.7)                    (-      (23.3)
6. MINED's fixed-                                            1.1                 1.1
term staff                                                  (0.6)               (0.6)
7. Operating costs                              39.7                             39.9
(19.9)(i)                        (19.9)
Total                     18.1      18.0        57.9        17.4        7.4     119.1
(18.1)    (15.8)      (37.2)      (16.9)               (88.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank, excluding
contingencies, taxes and duties. Totals may not add due to rounding.
NBF: Not financed by Bank. Includes Teachers' Consultation Books (Concultura), and
consumable educational materials.
Footnotes to Table A: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
(a) Arrangements for Phase I of the Program. Adjustments to procurement methodologies may be made in subsequent program
phases.
(b) No International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for civil works is expected in any phase of the Program. Amount includes small
works for substitution and rehabilitation of classrooms to be done through FIS, or by a qualified implementation agent selected
competitively. At each phase of the APL, physical infrastructure targets will follow a long-term critical path of the substantivc
program which will determine the selection of schools to be included. While efforts will be made to provide efficient
procurement packaging above US$350,000, cost of individual packages of works for approximately 35% of the total for Phase I
is estimated at no more than US$350,000 equivalent per package, up to an aggregate of US$5.6 m.; therefore, lump-sum, fixed-
priced contracts will be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified regional or local contractors, in
response to a written invitation. Adjustments to this methodology may be made in subsequent phases.
(c) For computing equipment contracts below US$50,000, international shopping procedures will apply, as described in para. 3.5 of
Guidelines, up to an aggregate of US$20,000. Other small purchases of office and school furniture and miscellaneous goods
manufactured in El Salvador may be procured through national shopping procedures, as described in para. 3.5 of same
Guidelines, up to an aggregate of US$0.2 m.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 48
Country: El Salvador                                                                       Project Title: Education Reform
(d) Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures will apply for purchases of vehicles (4x4s) to be used for supervision of the
Program. A list of suppliers will include all qualified international suppliers with technical and maintenance services
established in El Salvador. An aggregate of US$20,000 may be procured by international shopping procedures.
(e) Category amounts include contracts awarded on the basis of consultants' qualifications method to firms, as described in para.
3.7 of Consultant Guidelines, and individuals, as described in Chapter V of same Guidelines, up to an aggregate of US$1.6 m
and US$2.7 m., equivalent, respectively. Other consultants' contracts above US$100,000 will be contracted by Quality- and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), including contracts with procurement agents to be selected in the Program, following procedures
described in Section II of same Guidelines. Includes also an aggregate of US$2.1 m. for least cost contracts for supervision of
works and Program audits.
(f) Contracts for logistics services to support training.
(g) Contracts in this category for technical assistance to design/deliver courses and workshops will be awarded to firms under QCBS
procedures, and individuals, up to an aggregate of US$0.2 m. as described in the Guidelines, Chapter V.
(h) Includes approximately US$4.4 m of direct contracting for purchases of books, not to exceed US$4,000 each contract, to extend
and update school and classroom libraries, as per agreed list of titles selected under competitive bidding (ICB-2 step) under the
first project. Other new titles will be subject to a technical competitive selection, with selection criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
National shopping procedures apply for printing services, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 m.
(i) Annual grants to ACEs, CDEs and CECEs to promote school autonomy and students' activity Programs (Bonos Alegro);
grants will be transferred by MINED, as per agreed selection criteria, thresholds, and disbursement procedures described in the
Operational Manual (OM).
(j) Includes cost of maintenance of computing, office and audiovisual equipment, vehicles, and other operational costs of the
Program.
Procedures
Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on procurement of goods,
works and services -- Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as revised Jan./Aug.
1996, and Sept. 1997) and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997 and revised in September 1997). When ICB procedures are used, national preference will apply to goods
manufactured in El Salvador, as specified in Appendix 2 of Guidelines. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will include:
(a) awards to lowest evaluated bidder; (b) foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid and are not required to be registered in El
Salvador to participate in NCB, and shall be carried out according to procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Due
to the nature of the project, under an Adaptable Program Lending operation, procurement procedures have been identified
only for purchases of computing equipment and educational materials for the life of the project; detailed schedules for Phase
I procurement program reflect the procurement methodologies and thresholds that may apply to other purchases throughout
Program life. These methodology and thresholds would be adjusted in subsequent phases of the Program, as applicable.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 49
Country: El Salvador                                                                        Project Title: Education Reform
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ '000)
Category         |  Contract Value          Procurement       | Contract Subject to
C    (Threshold)             Method                   Review
41. Civl Wors______
Construction/            350-3,000            NCB                     Prior review: First
Substitution of                                                       two contracts
classrooms                                                            regardless of value,
and any contract above
US$500,000.
Rehabilitation of        < 350                Lump-sum, fixed          Prior review: First
classrooms                                    priced, at least 3      two contracts.
quotation from          Post review: remaining
qualified regional or   contracts.
.__________________                          local contractors.
.    .   .   od   .     .....   .   .   .i .    
.2.: G oods.             __.._..._.__._._._._.
Computing,               >250                 ICB                     Prior review: All
audiovisual equipment                                                 contracts.
<250                 NCB                     Prior review:
First two contracts.
Post review: remaining
contracts
<50                  Intemational shopping   Post review only.
Vehicles                 >250                 LIB                      Prior review: All
(all international                                                    contracts.
suppliers with services
and technical service in
El Salvador)
<50                  Intemational shopping   Post review only.
School/office            >250                 ICB                     Prior review: All
equipment and
furniture, and other
miscellaneous goods
50 - 250             NCB                     Prior review: First
contract for office
equipment, and first
contract for school
furmiture.
Post review: remainder
of contracts.
<50                  National shopping       Post review only.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 50
Country: El Salvador                                                                  Project Title: Education Reform
2. Goods (concludes)
Books and printing     50 - 250            NCB                    Prior review: First
services                                                          contract, regardless of
value.
<50                 National shopping     Post review only.
<4                  Direct contracting    Purchases subject to
approved list of titles
selected competitively
in first project: new
titles to be selected on
technical competition
acceptable to Bank.
3. Consultants' Services - Selection according to Consultant Guidelines (Jan. 97)
Consulting firms and   >200                 QCBS, including        Prior review: All
Procurement Agents                          notices as described in  (including full review
para. 2 .5 of         of technical
Guidelines.           evaluations)
>100                  QCBS                  Idem.
<100                  Least Cost            Prior review: Bi-
annual of works
program and TORs
for annual audits; and
all amendments raising
the contract value
above 15% original
value.
<100                  Consultants'          Prior review: Bi-
Qualifications (para.   annual programn of
3.7)                  contracting; and all
amendments raising
the contract value
above 15% original
value.
Individuals           <50                   Qualif. Individual     Prior review: Bi-
(Chap. V)             annual program of
contracting; and all
amendments raising
the contract value
above 15% of original
value.
Note: LIB = Limited International Bidding
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Prior review arrangement outlined in Table B above will result in ex-ante review by the Bank of approximately 60% of all
Bank-financed contracts by value; a substantial amount of Program costs includes small works contracting and supervision,
school autonomy grants, and other operational costs. Concurrent quarterly audits will be carried out during the life of
Phase I of the Program to cover most recurrent costs, including grant transfers to ACEs, CDEs and CECEs to promote
school autonomy, and Fondo Alegria student grants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 51
Country: El Salvador                                                             Projed Title: Education Reform
Procurement Documents
Goods and Works. All standard documentation (as published by the Bank) on procurement of goods and works under ICB
and NCB and evaluation forms is now in use in MINED under the ongoing Basic Education Modernization Project (Ln.
3945-ES). All documentation was updated for the recently signed Secondary Education Project (Ln. 4224-ES). Documents
will be used by all procurement agents selected during Phase I of the Prograrn, and updated periodically as required by the
Bank.
Consultants' Contracts. MINED already uses the Bank's Standard Contracts (lump sum/time-based); Standard Request
for Proposals (RFP) which includes: (a) letter of invitation (LOI, with/without price as selection criteria); and (b)
Information to Consultants (ITC). Simplified forms of contracts for small contracts with firms and individuals will be used,
as agreed with the Bank for ongoing projects.
MINED's Procurement Capacity
For goods and consultants' services contracts: MINED has had substantial experience in procurement with IBRD
financing under the ongoing Basic Education Modernization Project and the completed SSR Project. Procurement will be
conducted by the procurement unit (Unidad de Adquisiciones, Contrataciones y Logistica, UACL), which is staffed with
qualified and experienced professionals who will be in charge of coordinating, implementing and supervising the
Procurement Plans for the Program. Lessons learned from the execution of the ongoing project (3945-ES) and work load of
three Bank operations will be taken into consideration for the staffing of the UACL and USEFI, as recommended by the
Bank during the evaluation. The UACL will carry out most procurement for goods and contract consultants' services.
External international qualified technical assistance will be in place to assist the UACL with international bidding. In
addition, procurement agents, selected competitively, will conduct selected packages of international procurement of
computing equipment and vehicles, and QCBS contracts. Agents will be contracted under annual service contracts
satisfactory to the Bank, prior to the initiation of each procurement annual plan during Phase I of the Program. All
procurement procedures are included in the Operational Manual in place in MINED for the ongoing project and the
Secondary Education Project (Ln.4224-ES).
For civil works contracts: MINED's technical staff in the Infrastructure Division (ID) is experienced in local contracting
and will be responsible for coordinating and supervising civil works for construction (substitution) and rehabilitation works
in schools. The ID will maintain close contact with the UACL and USEFI to ensure quality of procedures in contracting.
For the works program, external technical assistance of local firms has already been contracted to support preparation of
feasibility studies for civil works; others will be contracted for supervision of works. The ID will be strengthened further to
assist overall supervision of works by MINED with external technical assistance of individual consultants, as required.
During Phase I of the Program, most of the construction (expansion and substitution) and rehabilitation contracts will be
done through the FIS or a qualified implementation agent, acceptable to the Bank. Executing agreements with FIS and the
procurement agents contracted by MINED for the first year of implementation, detailing applicable operation and
disbursement procedures, will be a condition of effectiveness. Adjustable mechanisms agreed from time to time with the
Bank will ensure the presence of qualified procurement agents needed to execute the Program.
The Operational Manual (OM), as recently revised by MINED for the Secondary Education project (4224-ES), will be in
place to ensure acceptable procedures for procurement, accounting, disbursement and auditing agreed for all Bank
operations. The OM will include specific operating and control mechanisms agreed upon for the financial and physical
monitoring system, in addition to criteria for selection of procurement agents and the guidelines for the award of school
autonomy grants to ACEs, CDEs and CECEs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 52
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Disbursement Category         Allocation of Loan           Percentage to be financed
Disbursements         ____
1. Civil Works                      $15,000,000          85% of local expenditures
2. Equipment, furniture and          3,000,000           100% of foreign expenditures and
vehicles                                                 87% of local expenditures
3. Consultants' services and         $6,000,000          100%, excluding taxes
studies
4. Training                         $15,000,000          100%
5. Books and printing               $20,000,000          100% of foreign expenditures and
services                                                 87% of local expenditures
6. MINED's fixed term staff          $1,000,000          75% until the aggregate amount of  |
US$250,000 has been reached, then
50% until the aggregate amount of
$600,000 has been reached and 30%
thereafter
7. Operating costs                  $19,000,000          75% until the aggregate amount of
US$8.0 million has been reached;
then 50% until the aggregate arnount
of $14.0 million has been reached
and 30% thereafter
8. Unallocated                       $9,000,000
TOTAL            $88,000,000
Administration of Disbursements
The proposed allocation of proceeds in the loan for Phase I of the Program is shown in Table C. Disbursements would lot
be made for works, goods and services which have been procured from ineligible sources or which have not been procured
according to the Bank's procurement and consultants' guidelines.
The Bank loan for this Phase is expected to be fully disbursed over a three-year period. Disbursements wll be in
accordance with guidelines set out in the Bank's disbursement handbook: All applications to withdraw from the loan will bc
fully documented, except for contracts not subject to prior review, as shown above, for which reimbursement may be inado
against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). MINED will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applilcations and
SOEs to be submitted to the Bank. This documentation will be retained along with all other supporting documentation for
review by Bank supervision missions and independent accredited auditors. Transfers for the school autonomy and Fondo
Alegria grants would be made in accordance with agreed mechanisms for disbursement and auditing included in the
agreements signed by ACEs, CDEs and CECEs with MINED.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 53
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Disbursement documentation
(a) Full documentation will be required to disburse all amounts for ICB and LIB contracts of goods and QCBS contracts,
regardless of cost, and new construction in civil works costing more than US$500,000. Disbursements for NCB contracts
for goods and works and other contracts with firms and individuals, done through consultants' qualifications procedures,
costing less than $100,000 and $50,000, respectively will require statements of expenditures. The Bank will require fuill
documentation for all contracts of the core of long-term technical staff in MINED financed under the Program, including
TORs and selection procedures.
(b) For the FIS works program, or for other implementation agents, disbursements will be made by MINED in
accordance with the mechanism agreed in the executing agreement signed with MINED, against a disbursement program.
(c) The Bank will not require documentation for expenditures related to (i) training activities that do not requife
procurement such as facilities for events, workshops, seminars, study tours, travel and per diems; documentation will be
retained by MINED; (ii) teachers' salaries; (iii) operational costs of office and computing equipment and vehicles, less than
$50,000; and (iv) transfers for School Autonomy and Fondo Alegria Grants.
Special Account
A separate account will be opened by GOES for the Program to ensure administrative clarity and efficient processing of
disbursements during the life of the Program. This account will be opened at a commercial bank under conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Disbursement and payments to suppliers will be processed by MINED or by the procurement
agents, independently of other internal procedures in MINED. The authorized initial allocation will be US$7.5 m, which
corresponds to expenditures estimated during the first quarter of Program implementation (Phase I). Replenishment of the
Special Account, for a maximum of US$10.0 m., will be subject to progress reports on implementation, progress in the
procurement program for the period, and financial statements for the prior quarter.
Revolving Fund
The MOF will provide sufficient funds for the operation of the different Phases of the Program through a separate revolvinig
fund (fondo rotatorio). The fund will be opened for purposes of administration of the share of Program investments and
recurrent costs of GOES. Funds will be deposited in a local commercial bank and will be managed by MINED. The initial
deposit and replenishments will match counterpart financing needed to accompany the disbursement program for the period,
namely, a quarterly balance equivalent to the funding requirements for the next three months of implementation of each
Phase of the Program. The initial deposit of US$500,000 will be a condition of effectiveness.
Closing Date for Phase I: December 31, 2001



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 54.
Country: El Salvador                                                              Project Title: Education Reforn
Annex 8
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
190.0                    178.0
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              09/01/1997                06/05/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      02/16/1998                02/16/1998
Negotiations                                     03/04/1998                03/04/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     10/05/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Education (MINED)
Preparation assistance: Japanese Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core Team Members: Madalena R. dos Santos (Sr. General Educator, Task Manager) - LCSHD; Ana-
Maria Arriagada (Sector Leader) - LCC2C; Cynthia Hobbs (Operations Assistant); Andrea C. Guedes
(Research Assistant); Ricardo Rocha Silveira (Sr. Economist); Suhas Parandekar (Economist); Joel Reyes
(Organizational Development Specialist); Donald Winkler (Education Lead Specialist); Julie B. Nannucci
(Team Assistant); Aurora Kirk (Team Assistant) - LCSHD; Rosita Estrada (Procurement Specialist) -
LCCCR; Valeria Junho Pena (Sr. Social Scientist) - LCSES; Maria Correia (Gender Lead Specialist);
Olympia Icochea (Consultant) - LCSPR: Diane Steele (Evaluation Specialist) - DECRG; Livio Pino
(Financial Management Specialist) - LCOAA; Genaro Alarc6n-Benito (Counsel); Jose Augusto Carvalho
(Sr. Counsel) - LEGLA; Orville Grimes (Projects Adviser) - LCOQE.
Consultants: Maria Elena Anderson, Alberto Zuniga, Jorge Quintana, Alfred Wood.
Peer Reviewers: Mary Canning, Elizabeth King.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 55
Country: ElSalvador                                                              ProjectTitle: Education Reform
Annex 9
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Supplemental Data
Table 9.1: Basic Education Enrollment by Age
5                                 3,902                    4,310
6                                47,134                   52,058
7                                112,351                 124,087
8                               117,707                  130,002
9                               112,069                  123,775
10                               117,447                 129,715
11                               106,645                 117,785
12                               111,444                 123,085
13                               108,041                 119,327
14                                97,088                 107,230
15                                66,754                  73,727
16                                35,455                  39,159
17                                16,977                  18,750
18+                                11,265                  12,442
Total              f             1,064,279               1,175,452
7-15 age group students enrolled                 949,546               1,048,733
16+ age group students enrolled                   63,697                  70,351
El Salvador population 7-15 yr. old            1,215,858                1,218,577
Gross Enrollment Rates                           87.53%                  96.46%
Net Enrollment Rate                              78.10%                  86.06%
% children 16+ enrolled in basic                  5.98%                   5.99%
education.
Source: Departamento de Estadisticas, MINED



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 56
Country: El Salvador                                                                 Project Title: Education Reformn
Table 9.4: New Enrollment, Repetition and Drop-Out Rates by Sector and Grade
Urban Area
'.'::'''     'i...,.,  ... . ...;.... R''                : ' '' ..'  .. : i ..:.........
.                                        8    S  0ii  |    .. ............... ................................................................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .   . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . ... ......... ..........   ........ . . . . . .
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..: .....                  ..... :.. ..............
....*.*.....*..              SECT~~~~~~~~~~A  .....
......A........-                 YEAR-W          - .
TNIT PARV4   17.30%       20.00    20.00    20 00   8.90%       8.90      8.90      8.90
INI_PARV5   25.11%        35.00     35.00    35.00  17.76%      17.76     17.76    17.76
TNI  PARV6   34.97%/0    40.00      60.00    70.0   23.17%      23.17     23.17    23.17
TNI_ GR1   85.09%       90.00    95.00    95.00  26.26%      26.26     26.26    26.26
T.R.GR1    9.76%       7.97     4.00     3.41    1.14%       1.14     1.14      1.14
T.R.GR2    3.44%       2.81     1.41     1.20   0.53%       0.53      0.53      0.53
T.R.GR3    2.63%       2.15     0.88     0.31    0.39%      0.39      0.39      0.39
T.R.GR4    1.98%       1.62     0.66     0.23    0.49%      0.49      0.49      0.49
T.R.GR5    1.45%       1.18     0.48     0.17   0.48%       0.48      0.48      0.48
T.R.GR6    1.12%       0.92     0.38     0.13   0.52%       0.52      0.52      0.52
T.R.GR7    1.27%       1.04     0.43     0.15   0.78%       0.78      0.78      0.78
T.R.GR8    0.86%       0.70     0.29     0.10   0.51%       0.51      0.51      05
T.R.GR9    0.53%       0.44     0.18     0.06   0.28%       0.28      0.28      02
T.R.GR10    0.87%       0.71     0.29     0.10   0.71%       0.71      0.71      0.71~
T.R.GRll   1.15%        0.94     0.38     0.13   0.56%       0.56      0.56      0.56
T.R.GR12    0.75%       0.62     0.25     0.09   0.42%       0.42      0.42      0.42
T.D.GR1   14.33%      10.83     4.00     2.83   16.36%      16.36    16.36     16.36
T.D.GR2    4.57%       3.46     1.28     0.90  13.05%       13.05    13.05     13.05
T.D.GR3    0.86%       0.65     0.24     0.17  13.14%       13.14     13.14    13.14
T.D.GR4    0.90%       0.68     0.25     0.18  10.20%       10.20     10.20    10.20
T.D.GR5    1.78%       1.35     0.50     0.35   1.15%        1.15      1.15     1.15
T.D.GR6    1.01%       0.76     0.28     0.20   0.14%        0.14     0.14      0.14
T.D.GR7   11.39%       8.61     3.18     2.25   6.20%       6.20      6.20      6.20
T.D.GR8    5.37%       4.06      1.50     1.06   5.45%      5.45      5.45      5.45
T.D.GR9   17.52%      13.24     4.89     3.46   0.54%       0.54      0.54      0.54
T.D.GR10   13.66%      10.32     3.81     2.70  26.88%      26.88     26.88     26.88
T.D.GRl1l   4.40%       3.33      1.23    0.87   7.11%       7.11      7.11      7.11
T.D.GR12   11.32%       8.55     3.16     2.24  11.57%      11.57     11.57     11.57
Source: Projections prepared by MINED and Project Preparation Team
TNT_PARV4 =          New pre-school enrollment rates for children aged 4
TNT_PARV5 =          New pre-school enrollment rates for children aged 5
TNT_PARV6 =          New pre-school enrollment rates for children aged 6
TNI_GR1=             Enrollment rates for new first grade students
T.R.GR1=             First grade repetition rates
T.D.GR1=             First grade drop-out rates



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 57
Country: El Salvador                                                                      Project Title: Education Refonrm
Table 9.5: New Enrollment, Repetition and Drop-Out Rates by Sector and Grade
Rural Area
TNI PARV4    15.39%        25.00     30.00    35.00    0.29%       0.29       0.29      0.29
TNI PARV5    30.67%        35.00     40.00    45.00    1.09%        1.09      1.09      1.09
TNI PARV6    76.77%        80.00     85.00    90.00    2.19%       2.19       2.19      2.19
TNI GRI   160.58%    140.00    130.00   120.00    3.17%          3.17      3.17       3.17
T.R.GRI    10.44%      8.40       4.00     3.32    3.32%       3.32      3.32       3.32
T.R.GR2     4.41%      3.55       1.69     1.40    1.25%       1.25      1.25       1.25
T.R.GR3     2.69%      2.17       0.83     0.26    0.51%       0.51      0.51       0.51
T.R.GR4     2.04%       1.64      0.63     0.20    0.32%       0.32      0.32       0.32
T.R.GR5     1.49%      1.20       0.46     0.15    0.49%       0.49      0.49       0.49
T.R.GR6     0.72%      0.58       0.22     0.07    0.56%       0.56      0.56       0.56
T.R.GR7     1.37%      1.11       0.42     0.13    0.18%       0.18      0.18       0.18
T.R.GR8     1.08%      0.87       0.33     0.11    0.28%       0.28      0.28       0.28
T.R.GR9     0.29%      0.24       0.09     0.03    0.14%       0.14      0.14       0.14
T.D.GR1     9.95%      8.09       4.00     3.38   19.32%      19.32      19.32     19.32
T.D.GR2     0.17%      0.14       0.07     0.06   23.18%      23.18     23.18      23.18
T.D.GR3     0.38%      0.31       0.15     0.13   27.97%      27.97     27.97      27.97
T.D.GR4     0.31%      0.25       0.12     0.10   20.10%      20.10     20.10      20.10
T.D.GR5      1.09%     0.89       0.44     0.37   32.09%      32.09     32.09      32.09
T.D.GR6    17.92%      14.58      7.21     6.09   20.71%      20.71     20.71      20.71
T.D.GR7     7.52%      6.12       3.03     2.56   24.46%      24.46     24.46      24.46
T.D.GR8     5.68%      4.62       2.29     1.93    7.36%       7.36      7.36       7.36
T.D.GR9    24.33%      19.80      9.79     8.27   88.58%      88.58     88.58      88.58
Source: Projections prepared by MINED and Project Preparation Team
Table 9.6: Education Indicators for Central America
(mid-1990s)
Costa Rica        90           88            10          5.2          9           43          4.7
El Salvador       86           88             9           25         4.5          15          2.6
Guatemala         68           66            11          44.4         16          18          1.6
Honduras          90                          8          27.3         12          21          4.0
Nicaragua         79           81             9          34.3         17          26          3.8
Panama            91           92            11          9.2          10          Sl          4.7



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 58
Country: El Salvador                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 10
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
MINED, 1998. "Plan de Implementacion - Fase I"
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Castro-Leal, Florencia and Mehra, Kalpana, 1997. "Who Uses Basic Services in Rural El Salvador?" (PSP
discussion Paper Series)
Edwards, John and Parandekar, Suhas, 1997. "El Salvador: Secondary Education Project - Internal Efficiency
Estimates from the Household Survey (1996-II)"
Parandekar, Suhas D., 1998. "HLM Regression Estimates"
Parandekar, Suhas D., 1998. "Cost-Benefit Analysis for Education Reform Project"
Psacharopoulos, George, 1997. "Secondary Education in El Salvador: A Justification for its Expansion"
World Bank, 1997. "El Salvador Rural Development Study, Report No. 16253-ERS"
World Bank Country Study, 1996. "El Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of Globalization"
World Bank, 1996. "Moving to a Gender Approach in El Salvador"
World Bank, 1994. "El Salvador Community Education Strategy: Decentralized School Management"
C. Other
Albano, Celina, 1997. "Inventario de las Investigaciones sobre Educaci6n Basica en El Salvador 1996/1997"
(Report)
Direcci6n General de Estadistica y Censos del Gobiemo de El Salvador, 1995. "Proyecci6n de la Poblaci6n de El
Salvador 2025."
Direcci6n General de Estadistica y Censos del Gobiemo de El Salvador, 1997. "Caracteristicas Educativas de la
Poblaci6n."
Fundaci6n Salvadoreiia para el Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social (FUSADES), 1997. "Boletin Econ6mico y Social,
Boletin No. 138"
Gobiemo de El Salvador, 1998. "Bases para el Plan de Naci6n"
Harvard University, 1994. "Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos de El Salvador" (Report)
Ministerio de Coordinaci6n del Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social. "Priorizaci6n de Municipios a Partir de Datos
Censales." (mimeo)
Ministerio de Educaci6n (MINED), 1997. "Evaluaci6n de Impacto del Programa EDUCO." Primer Informe. Julio
1997. Departamento de Evaluaci6n de Programas. Repuiblica de El Salvador.
Ministerio de Educaci6n (MINED), 1997. "Informe de Evaluaci6n del Rendimiento en 3, 4, y 6 Grado de
Educaci6n Basica." Repuiblica de El Salvador.
Ministerio de Educaci6n (MINED), 1995. "Reforma Educativa en Marcha - Lineamientos del Plan Decenal, 1995-
2005." Repu.blica de El Salvador.
Ministerio de Educaci6n, 1995. "Educaci6n de El Salvador en Cifras 1995." Repuiblica de El Salvador.
Ministerio de Planificacion y Coordinaci6n del Desarrollo Economico y Social del Gobierno de El Salvador, 1996.
"Encuesta de Hogares de Prop6sitos Multiples (EHPM)." Departamento de Investigaciones Muestrales.
Ministry of Planning, 1993. "Plan de Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social, 1994-1999." Republica de El Salvador.
Quintana, Jorge, 1997. "Puesta en Marcha del Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos (SIRH)"
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 59
Country: El Salvador                                                               ProjectTitle: Education Reform
Annex 11
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Amount in US$ million
__________ _  (__________________________________    less  cancellations
Loan/        Fiscal                                                                       Closing
Credit        Year      Borrower       Purpose         Bank       IDA      Undisbursed      Date
Credits                                                            27.99
4 Credit(s)
Closed
Total Number of Credits  0                      O                     0.00             0.00
Loans                                                    439.87                     0.00
32 Loan(s)
Closed    _
3389S         1992                 Power TAL              10.59                     1.28  03/31/98
3576A         1993                 Ag. Sec. Reforn        24.19                    17.90  12/31/99
L__I__ L           _ and Inv. _
39200         1996                 Energy Sector          65.00                    64.11  06/30/00
39460         1996                 Competitiveness        16.00                    11.92  06/30/99
Enha.
39450         1996 X     __X ___ Basic Education          34.00                    15.90  06/30/01
39820         1996                 Land                   50.00                    43.87  06/30/02
________=___                  Administration
40820         1997                 Public Sector          24.00                    20.43  08/31/01
l ___________  l ___________  ___________  M odernization
42240         1998                 Secondary               58.0                     58.0  06/30/03
l_____ l____            =Education                     =
Total Number of Loans = 8                                   281.78                  233.41
Total***                                      721.66   27.99
of which repaid                                209.33    9.33
Total held by Bank & IDA                      512.33   18.66
Amount             5.15
Sold
of which           5.15
____     _   -o repaid   |                                                               4
X______   Total Undisbursed                                                          233.41|



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                       Page SO
Country: El Salvador                                                                                                        Project Title: Education Reform
Annex 12
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
El Salvador at a 2lance                                                                       3/19198
ULatin Lower-
POVERTY and SO0  KSt:~E:] Amairici  middle.:
SAlvador   &Carib., frfoncoe         Development diamond,
GNP percapita 1996 (US$~~~~~     1 700      3,710     1780 ~~~Life expectancy
SN? 1906 (b/U~~~~~~~n.s>US$)                1, 00      3 170:0  1,067:
AVera9le: annual growth. 19904&
Population ff36)                                            24:         1,7       1A       GNGrs
Matrseenteatlmate (latest yaaravaflable since 1989)                ~~~~capita                       enrollm ent
Povert'::Ihead6cdint Index (6 ofpopu/at,onY:                 48          - 
Urtban population (36: offfloplto)45:                                   74       .56
Lifa expectancy-at brh(es)69                                            89        67
Infant mortality (er%;00i2//vek.id.hs)  3.4    37        41               ~~~Access to safe water
Child neIln ufrition (3 of childreurde5)1
Access to safle w ate f% 0/oplatn                            '55        80        78
1111terany(3 of popidalion age .;5~-l.29                                lE1Sa.ao
Male... .                                                   0          .        o                   Lower-mniddle-income group
KE-Y ECO6NOMIC:RATIOS~anid LONO-TERWITRENDS.
496   985       1996      I99
Economic ratios,
GOP, (bilins LISP~19                                        36          95       1 
Gross domestic investment/GOP       ~~~~~22. 1  1.0       20        1
Exports of goods nt services/GOP  3.0  22.3   216       210    .          Openness of economy
GrossAdomesti sav n 9/GOR                        17.10:     3.3         4.0       3.3
Current account:balance/GOP-.1                               6.        -51       -3
Intrsame     nMtSIGODP                            10        2           .          .        sings                        Investment
Total debt/GOP                                   21.0 8:2.                      278
Toal,debtsatvice/exots              ~16.7:                 271.3       135;    1:4.0
Present value of'debtfGIDIR..                                                   227
Presentvalueof debt/exports  .   .,  .  ,. .   ,,    1059                    ~~~Indebtedness
1918495  119966.9    1995::       1 998. ~1997-05:
(average annual rowth.47                                    63          25Slao
Gl4P per capita  -4.4    3.0  ...  3.7        0.0. 2.2                     ~~~~~~Lower-m/dct/e-mncome groutp
Expofts o goods.and: Services           -21        72      151X         74.4     110    -_________________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY______ ___________
(1/. of GDP)                        1~~~~~1915  1985      1995      1996      Growth rates of outpUt and Investm,ent(%)
Agricufture                                      35.3      26.9        13.9      13.1      40 
Industry                                         26.5      23.4       27.1      26.8       2x
Manufacturing                                  20.0      17.8        21.1      20.9          _________________
Services                                         38.2      49.7        59.0     60. 1              5209         9 30   94    95
Private consumption                              71.9      81.2        87.4      87.5     .40
General government consumption                   11.2      15.5         8.6       9.3                      GDI   -O-o'-op
Imports of goods and services                    38.2      29.9       37.8      33.4           _________________
(average annual growth)                       1785189                  95       19         Growth rates of expo rts and im ports lit
Agriculture                                       -1.S       1.6        4.3       1.8      so
Industry                                         -5.5       4.4        6.8        2.5
Manufacturing                                   -5.8       4.8        7.1       2.9      25
Services                                          -2.0      5.7         6.6       2.6
Private consumption                               -3.7      7.9         8.6       2.6       0
General government consumption                     1.7     -4.5         3.3       0.2              91      2    90    54    95
Gross domestic investment                         -8.6     10.3        1986    .2286      -2s
Imports of goods and services                    -5.4      13.9        21.4      -7.3                     Exot
Gross national product                            -3.2      5.0         6.5       2.6                       pos        lmat
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country tin bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                             Page 61
Country: El Salvador                                                                                               Project Title: Education Reform
El Salvador
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     19S6       1996     1996 1
Domestc prices                                                                        Inflation
(% change)                                                                           30
Consumer prces                                 19.1       ..       10.0      9.8
Implicit GDP deflator                           9.9     20.2       10.8      7.5    10
Government finance                                                                     __                         _
(% of GDP)                                                                            o
Current revenue                                  ..      0.0       16.6     17.2             91    92    93   94   95   9f
Current budget balance                           ..      0.0        3.5      1.8                     GOP det.      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..      0.0       *0.7     -2.5
TRADE
1976     1986       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                        Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                              ..     695       1,661    1,789      4.000
Coffee                                         ..      464        362      339
Cotton                                         ..       29              ..          3000
Manufartures                                   ..       ..        406      460
Total imports (cit)                              ..     961       3,352    3,223      2,000
Food                                           ..      211        651      677          riHl
Fuel and energy                                ..      133        III      122       00
Capital goods                                  .*      158        843      673      1,W0           _  _ IL      _ L   L
Export price index (1987=100)                    ..      104       206       191            90  91  92  93  94  95  9f
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..       97       147       140
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ..      108       140       137                                Imports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GOP ratto (%)
Exports of goods and services                  593      930       2,049    2,202      o
Importsof goods and services                   673    1,189       3,618    3,501         go 91   92  093   94   95   9
Resource balance                                -80     -260     -1,569   -1,299
Net income                                     -40      -117      -110       -96
Net currenttransfems                            25       113      1,195    1,255      4
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers             -95     -263       -484     -141     4l
Financing items (net)                          125      221        630      306         L
Changes in net reserves                        -30        42       -147     -165     -s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mr/Il US$)            175      333        940    1,110
Conversion rate (locaWUS$)                      2.6      3.5        8.8      8.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1986       1996     1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Composlfton of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           412    1,851       2,590    2,894
IBRD                                          41      119        307      282                             A 282  B
IDA                                           17       26         20       20               596               20
Total debt service                             100      259        283       314
IBRD                                           4        16        43        42
IDA                                            0        0          1         1          F
Composition of net resource tlows                                                        129
Ofricial grants                                5      203        101       100
Official creditors                            41      112         65      274
Private creditors                             11       -50       -30       23                                     D
Foreign direct investment                     13       12         38       25                                    1250
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0        0               617
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0         0        34       155      A-IBRO                      E -Bilateral
Disbursements                                 14        14        26        21      B-IDA    D-OthermuKiateral  F-Pnvate
Principal repayments                           2        8         22       22       C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                      13        6          4        -2    1
Interest payments                              3         8        22        21
Net transfers                                 10        -2       -18       -22
Development Economics                                                                                                   3119/98



Projact Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 62
Country: El Salvador                                                           Project Title: Educaton Reform
Annex 13
El Salvador: Education Reform Project
Policy Letter from the Government of El Salvador
.4/si~  a; g'zca,n
San Salvador, 6 de marzo de 1998.
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Directora
Departamento de Centroamerica
Banco Mundial
Estimada Sra. Dos%vett-Coirolo:
Tengo el gusto de saludarla y enviar a usted la presente carta que describe las politicas educativas
del Gobierno de El Salvador, en el contexto del Adjustable Program Lending (el Prograrna), a ser
financiado con un prestamo del Banco Mundial y con recursos nacionales, a fin de apoyar el
proceso de Reforma Educativa que impulsa el Gobiemo de El Salvador, a traves del Ministerio de
Educaci6n.
Despues del conflicto de los afios 80s, se desarrollaron importantes proyectos educativos orientados
a ampliar la cobertura de la educaci6n basica, especialmente en las zonas rurales, y a iniciar los
primeros carnbios en el enfoque del curriculum. El programa EDUCO, financiado parcialmente
con el prestamo "Rehabilitaci6n de los sectores sociales", perrniti6 ampliar la cobertura educativa
en las zonas rurales de una manera acelerada, con criterios de calidad, y con participaci6n de la
comunidad en la administraci6n del servicio educativo. La reforrna curricular fue iniciada con el
proyecto SABE, el cual permiti6 apoyar la producci6n de una innovadora colecci6n de libros de
texto, la capacitaci6n docente y nuevos sistemas de evaluaci6n del aprendizaje.
Hacia el final de la gesti6n gubernamental 1989-1994 se logr6 recoger los frutos de los esfuerzes de
las politicas y programas educativos, y, al mismo tiempo, se reconoci6 que era necesario
profundizar en la ampliaci6n de la cobertura de la educaci6n bAsica con criterios de equidad,
mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n en todos los niveles educativos y modernizar los servicios del
Estado en el campo de la educaci6n. Junto al reconocimiento de estos retos se ha desarrollado un
creciente consenso social en relaci6n la importancia critica de la educaci6n para sustentar el
desarrollo econ6mico, fomentar la democracia y consolidar la paz. Asi, el Gobiemo de El Salvador
expres6 en su plan 1995-1999 el compromiso de desarrollar una profunda reforma de la educaci6n
nacional. El plan de reforma qued6 delineado en el Plan Decenal 1995-2005. Este plan estaba



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 63
Country: El Salvador                                                        Project Title: Education Reform
El Salvador * PrograQna de Reforma Educativa * Adjustable Program Lending*Policy Letter
fundamentado en las lecciones aprendidas en la gesti6n gubernamental anterior, en un diagn6stico
de la educaci6n que indicaba la necesidad de seguir enfrentando los retos de cobertura, calidad y
equidad del sistema educativo y en la construcci6n de un consenso nacional, expresada en el
proceso de consulta desarrollado en 1995 y que incluy6 la contribuci6n de la "Comisi6n Nacional
de Educaci6n, Ciencia y Desarrollo", nombrada por el presidente de la Repuiblica.
Hemos dados los primeros pasos de la reformna educativa, incluyendo aspectos como la reforma del
marco juridico, el refuerzo de las politicas de ampliaci6n de cobertura con enfasis en los sectores
mas desfavorecidos, la profundizaci6n de la reforma curricular y la modernizaci6n institucional, lo
cual ha incluido acciones para mejorar la eficiencia del Ministerio de Educaci6n, aumentar la
participacion del sector privado mediante la contrataci6n de servicios y fortalecer la participaci6n
local en la provisi6n de la educacion.
El proyecto "Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica" (Prestamo 3945-ES), actualmente en
ejecuci6n, ha apoyado los esfuerzos de reforma educativa en El Salvador. Esta previsto concluir
este proyecto en diciembre de 1998, dos afios adelante del calendario y con muchas de sus metas
cumplidas mas alla de sus limites originales, lo que ha mostrado la capacidad y compromiso del
MINED en relaci6n con programa de reforma. El Ministerio de Educaci6n realiz6 a fines de 1997
una seminario coordinado por el Harvard Institute for International Development (Boston,
Noviembre 1997) a fin de evaluar la reforma y reanudar los compromisos de los distintos sectores
en beneficio de la educaci6n nacional.
Junto al presente programa, el MINED estara gerenciando la ejecuci6n de otros proyectos
importantes: Reforma de la Educaci6n Media 1998-2002 (BIRP), Tecnologia Educativa e
Infraestructura 1998-2002 (BID), Educaci6n Media Tecnica 1998-2002 (Uni6n Europea).
Objetivos del Programa
El presente Programa apoyara los esfuerzos del Gobiemo a fin de continuar con la reforma iniciada
en las intervenciones anteriores. El Programa estara enfocado a asegurar la creaci6n de servicios
educativos para atender el primer ciclo de educaci6n basica y aumentar la cantidad de afios de
escolaridad de los ninos que logran ingresar al sistema educativo.  Ademas de fortalecer
intervenciones que han sido exitosas apoyadas por el proyecto "Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n
Basica" el programa incluird algunas innovaciones importantes: la creaci6n de un proyecto piloto
de educaci6n inicial y la introducci6n de una metodologia de educaci6n acelerada para disminuir la
sobre-edad.
Los objetivos globales del Programa son:
a. Aumentar los niveles educativos de los recursos humanos de El Salvador mediante la expansi6n
del acceso y el mejoramniento de la calidad de la educaci6n, con enfasis en las zonas rurales y sub-
urbanas.
b. Modemizar el Estado mediante el fortalecimiento de la capacidad gerencial del MINED en fos
niveles nacional, departamental y local, enfatizando la descentralizaci6n  por medio de la



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 64
Country: El Salvador                                                             Project Title: Education Reform
El Salvador * Progarnma de Reforma Educadva * Adjustable Program Lending*Po[icy Letter
autonomia escolar y la participaci6n de la comunidad.
Objetivos y actividades de la primera fase del Programa
a. Expandir la cobertura de la educaci6n basica en las zonas rurales y suburbanas mediante. En
relaci6n a este objetivo se desarrollaran las siguientes actividades: (i) el establecimiento de
secciones de EDUCO, (ii) la creaci6n de un programa piloto de educaci6n inicial con los padres y
madres del programa EDUCO, (iii) el fortalecimiento de metodos para atender nifios que demandan
distintos grados de escolaridad (aulas alternativas) y (iv) crear un programa de educaci6n acelerada
para nifios con sobreedad.
b. Mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n basica. El logro de este objetivo esta relacionado con la
realizaci6n de las siguientes actividades (i) la revisi6n del curriculo en areas como la educaci6n
inicial, la educaci6n especial y la educaci6n de adultos, (ii) proveer materiales, libros de texto y
fortalecer la red de bibliotecas publicas, (iii) mejorar los programas de formaci6n pre-servicio de
maestros y la capacitaci6n en servicio, (iv) fortalecer el sistema nacional de evaluaci6n, (v) apoyar
el desarrollo de materiales educativos para el programa de alimentaci6n escolar, y (vi) mejorar la
infraestructura escolar.
c. Apoyar la modernizaci6n institucional del MINED. El logro de este objetivo implicara el
desarrollo de las siguientes actividades: (i) el fortalecimiento de la capacidad gerencial en los
niveles central, departamental y local, profundizando la reforina institucional llevada a cabo hasta el
momento, (ii) la mejora los procedimientos, la capacitaci6n y los instrumentos para aumentar la
autonomia escolar, mediante el fortalecimiento de los organismos de administraci6n escolar local y
(iii) el desarrollo del sistema de comunicaciones del MINED a fin de asegurar la difusi6n de
informaci6n sobre las necesidades y logros de la reforrma educativa en toda la sociedad.
Indicadores de desempefio del Programa
El programa, en su conjunto permitira mejorar la educaci6n nacional en los siguientes aspectos: (a)
aumento de las tasas de matricula en todos los niveles del sistema educativo, (b) disminuci6n de la
sobre-edad en la educaci6n basica, (c) creaci6n de innovaciones para la educaci6n inicial con la
participaci6n de los padres, (d) mejoramiento de las condiciones en que los maestros ensefian y los
nifnos aprenden a traves de la provisi6n de materiales educativos y la realizaci6n de innovaciones
educativas y capacitaci6n de maestros, (e) mejoras en la infraestructura escolar, (f) desarrollo del
sistema nacional de evaluaci6n, (f) fortalecimiento de la modernizaci6n institucional del Ministerio
de Educaci6n, (g) fomento de la participaci6n del sector privado mediante la contrataci6n de
servicios y (h) profundizaci6n de la participaci6n local (ACE, CDE y CECE) en la provisi6n de los
servicios educativos.
El Programa tendra varias fases.
Durante la Fase I, se reforzaran las actividades emprendidas en los primeros alios de la Reforma
Educativa para ampliar la cobertura, mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n preescolar y basica y



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 65
Country: El Salvador                                                           Project Title: Education Reform
El Salvador * Programa de Reforma Educativa* Adjuistable Program Lending*Pol;cy Letter
modernizar el MINED. Se continuaran los esfuerzos de ampliar la cobertura, fortaleciendo la
metodologia de aulas alternativas e introduciendo una metodologia de educaci6n acelerada para
disminuir los niveles de sobre-edad. Acciones en el campo de la educaci6n inicial, especial y de
adultos seran introducidas. Se reforzara el sistema nacional de evaluaci6n, el proceso de
modernizaci6n institucional. La participaci6n local en la provisi6n de la educaci6n sera fortalecida
mediante la entrega de recursos a los organismos de administraci6n escolar local para que estos
desarrollen acciones que mejoren la calidad de la educaci6n.
Las acciones de las siguientes fases estara determinadas por los logros en la ejecuci6n del Programa
y en la de otros proyectos relacionados con la implementaci6n de la reforrna educativa. Se
incluiran acciones para continuar promoviendo la universalizaci6n de la educacion basica, la
ampliaci6n de la educaci6n media, el mejorarniento de la calidad en todos los niveles educativos, el
mejoramiento de la eficiencia del sistema educativo, la permanente renovaci6n institucional del
MINED y la participacion local.
Monitoreo y evaluaci6n
Los indicadores del programa y de cada una de sus fases seran monitoreados tomando en cuenta
diversos reportes de Monitoreo del Programa, las estadisticas del MINED y las recolectadas por la
Encuesta de Hogares y Prop6sitos Muiltiples. La producci6n de informes incluira visitas a las
escuelas y entrevistas a actores educativos en distintos niveles. Se incluiran evaluaciones de
impacto de las innovaciones creadas por este programa: por ejemplo, aulas aceleradas, fondo
alegria, educaci6n inicial, etc. Una evaluaci6n de impacto del programa sera realizado hacia el fmal
del segundo afio de ejecuci6n. La evaluaci6n tomara como base los estudios parciales y la
informaci6n generada por los sistemas de recolecci6n y analisis de datos del MINED.
Sobre la implementaci6n del Programa
El Gobierno, a traves del Ministerio de Hacienda, asumira el compromiso de proporcionar el apoyo
financiero necesario para cubrir los costos de contrapartida para la ejecuci6n del "Prograna de
Reforma Educativa (Fase I)", durante la vigencia del mismo.
El MINED coordinara y monitoreara la implementaci6n de los componentes del programa en las
distintas fases, en los niveles nacional y departamental. Las siguientes unidades estaran
involucradas en la ejecuci6n del programa: (a) la Direcci6n Nacional de Educaci6n, por medio de
sus distintas unidades tecnicas, serd responsable de la implementaci6n de las actividades relativas a
la ampliaci6n de cobertura y mejoramiento de la calidad; dentro del componente de calidad, las
actividades relativas al sistema nacional de evaluaci6n seran coordinadas por la Direcci6n de
Evaluaci6n e Investigaci6n y aquellas actividades relativas a la rehabilitaci6n y adecuaci6n de
infraestructura seran coordinadas por la Oficina de Infraestructura, (b) las actividades del
componente de modernizaci6n seran coordinadas por la unidad de modemizaci6n del MINED, (c)
la Direcci6n Nacional de Administraci6n sera responsable de coordinar la gerencia financiera, las



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 66
Country: El Salvador                                                         Project Title: Education Reform
El Salvador * Prograama de Reforma Educativa* Adjustable Program Lending *Policy Letter
adquisiciones, la contabilidad, la producci6n de reportes financieros y los arreglos para auditorfa.
En dependencia de la Direcci6n del MINED funcionara una oficina para el seguimiento y
monitoreo del proyecto.
Organizaciones no Gubernamentales, universidades e instituciones privadas seran contratadas por el
MINED para proveer servicios como la revision del curriculo, la capacitacion docente, el desarrollo
de actividades de evaluaci6n, producci6n y publicaci6n de textos y otros materiales educativos.
Las ACEs, los CDEs y CECEs seran responsables de la administraci6n a nivel escolar tanto en Ias
zonas rurales como urbanas.
Una instituci6n especializada apoyara al MINED como agente de compras en la implementaci6n
del proyecto.
Lo antes descrito resumen el marco de politicas educativas del Gobierno de El Salvador,
desarrolladas a traves del MINED, con relaci6n al presente programa de apoyo a la Reforma
Educativa Nacional.
Reiteramos a usted nuestro fundamental compromiso: mejorar las oportunidades educativas para las
futuras generaciones de nifios y j6venes de El Salvador.
Muy cordialmente,
DIOS UNION LIBERTAD
*        eCeia  allardo de Cano
* t        stra de Educaci6n.



90°00'                              89°30'                               89500                               88'30'                               88'00'
To Son Jaedotw.
To Puerto Barrios '.  L,/  e .      To Sonto ROs.                                             EL   SALVADOR
PaMetotn     -     Son Ignnci                                 0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS    i   RAILROADS
ioke Guijo                                     L                               0   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS         J.  MAIN PORTS
GUATEMALA                      TO                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL           __ RIVERS
aterel City                                              4'                       PAVED ROADS                     DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
/I  u   l ElN Zaht  Q      -     SECONDARY ROADS           -- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
1 4°00'         r   XA i uz ya'Aa /'acsabsa                                  /                ho o e            a                                                                14°00'
/ Ct I' t /Y wCalepequrJ ~~o g ' del Gooyolro                                                   105,          i2   0 Porqsin ).
To Escuintloj  Tocslss,  * Ahuash pM   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eitl  DuceNLohe          /
.,~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ de M, -                                                                 -a"
"a.                                        T L' IN Al NI _           * .         *X,      l
>- U<HA    '4H \,       DOINCo ANpqo      I                                                                                                 EpcoS----eoqe0-
-%5 <!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                              ~Oioo Cormb"to
FoI     .C An               Ayst A5    S Martin                   Son -  .  .  ./i6n
E.100'                                      antaVADCI<IICA AGUAAnal,98 8 tSt 1°S   Rosa                                                                                        14°00'S
To EscniO C  TE A N         _oc 6 .                     >      or acceptance rJf 5uch bounda                         .    .                                                       T
Hu 9c                                                  IensuntepequeN   c         Zeclc 8  8 '                                     I     " .8800's
_        c                                                   .          ,    S  o                                        _ i                      , n
Quezoltepqq  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11.basco ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       er~Ikc
Sao                        P.qu.  an M-ti.                                            -ir~~~~~- ~                   IdtPs6'
~~~ DOMtN1CAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~0                                  easi                                                El C    co
GUATE  "-. *-'                                                                                                                                                     1 a-oo~~~~~~~~~~~1 T, )  n  im
CSA   cOrl          Ck                                                                                      P CI     ICOC                         A
-1 3'30'                                                                                                                Chinameca        MigueILl900  8~3'  B~0



