Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
July
24,
1998
His Excellency
Mr. Manuel Enrique Hinds
Minister of Finance
Edificio Tres Torres
Av. Alvarado, diagonal Centro Am
érica
San Salvador
El Salvador
Re:
El Salvador: Japanese Grant for Education Reform Project Grant No.TF025312
Dear Minister:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in 
an amount not exceeding three hundred and fifty thousand US dollars ($350,000) (the Grant) to the 
Republic of El Salvador
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of
the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and 
on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  This agreement will become effective on the date the 
Bank receives: (a) the duly countersigned copy of this letter; and (b) a legal opinion from the Recipient’s 
Minister of Justice concluding that all constitutional and other legislative requirements to authorize the 
Letter Agreement have been fulfilled.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By
/s/ Manuel Enrique Hinds
Page  2
Authorized Representative
Date: July 28, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in the preparation of certain components of 
the Recipient
’s education reform project (the Project).  The technical assistance activities (the Activities) 
for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)  Carrying out of several studies to determine the current levels of education services provided 
and the existing needs of expansion, including, inter alia: (i) base-line studies to determine 
enrollment by grade, location, gender and type of school; (ii) a study to assess the current 
childhood programs, targeted population and potential demand/supply issues related to those 
programs;
(iii) a study to identify the problems that cause impediments for service delivery at the 
initial and the basic education levels; and (iv) a study to assess costs per student in formal and 
distant education programs.
(b) Carrying out of several studies to: (i) assess the efficiency of the current basic education 
services and the costs of inefficiency (repetition and dropout); (ii) evaluate curriculum 
improvements and decentralization; (iii) assess the quality of pre-service and in-service training 
programs for teachers; (iv) design and pilot methodologies to solve problems of students at risk 
and over-aged students; and
(v) determine the private and social returns of basic education.
(c) Carrying out of a study to assess the participation of parents, teachers and community 
members in the administration of schools.
(d) Establishment of school-based management mechanisms and accountability systems on a 
pilot basis, and design and implementation of a pilot based financial management system.
(e)  Study tours to Mexico and Brazil for the Recipient’s Ministry of Education staff involved in 
the Project preparation, to learn about Mexico’s initial education model and Brazil’s accelerated 
program methodology.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and the study tours described under the 
Activities.  For purposes of this paragraph, study tours shall include expenditures in connection 
Page  3
with travel and per diem expenses for participants and production of materials.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by March 30, 1999. After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to 
the Bank
’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of El 
Salvador on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Panama, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
