Page  1
March 22, 2001
His Excellency
Mr. Jose Luis Trigueros
Minister of Finance
Edificio Tres Torres
Av. Alvarado,
Urbanización Buenos Aires
San Salvador, El Salvador
Re:
Loan No. 4320-ES (Education Reform Project) 
First Amendment to the Loan Agreement
His Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated October 4, 1999 between the Republic of 
El Salvador (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank).  
In response to your letter of February 12, 2001 in which you requested the Bank 
to reallocate Loan proceeds to finance: (a) the reconstruction of public schools 
damaged by the earthquake of January 13, 2001; (b) the acquisition of durable 
education materials, including reprinting, distribution and utilization of said 
materials in order to replace those materials destroyed by said earthquake; and (c) 
the provision of Municipal Grants, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement 
as follows:
I. Loan 
Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Basic Education" means the education services provided in the Borrower’s 
territory for the first to the ninth grades of schooling;
(b)
"Catholic School Council" means a council (Consejo Educativo Católico 
Escolar) made up of parents, teachers, students and the school director responsible 
for the management of a catholic school which receives subsidies from the Borrower;
(c)
"Community Education Association" means an association (Asociación 
Comunal para la Educación) established pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 7 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on February 17, 1995, for purposes of 
participating in the provision of Preschool Education and Basic Education services;
(d)
"Education Legislation" means National Education Law (Ley General de 
Educación) published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 21, 1996,  Ley de 
la Carrera Docente (Teacher’s Career Law) published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
on March 22, 1996, and Reglamento Especial de las Asociaciones Comunales para la 
Educación (Regulations for the Community Education Associations ) published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 17, 1995;
(e)
"EDUCO" means the Borrower’s program of community operated schools for 
the provision of Preschool Education and Basic Education;
(f)
"EDUCO Parent School" means any school (escuela de padres) which offers 
in-service training for parents in areas such as physical care, health, nutrition and 
early stimulation of motor and cognitive skills under EDUCO;
(g)
"Eligible Municipality" means the Borrower’s political subdivision which 
meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for purposes of carrying out a 
Municipal Subproject;
(h)
"FIS" means Fondo de Inversión Social de El Salvador, the Borrower’s 
social investment and local development fund, established pursuant to Decree No. 610 
published in the Official Gazette on November 16, 1990, as amended by Decree No. 826 
Page  2
of September 1996;
(i)
"FIS Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FIS pursuant to Section 3.06 (a) of this agreement; 
(j)
"Formative Extracurricular Activity" means any pedagogical, cultural 
and/or athletic activity proposed by the students aimed to improve student learning 
and participation at school, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual;
(k)
"Indicators" means the monitoring and evaluation indicators set forth in 
the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
(l)
"Initial Education" means the education of children not older than four 
years of age by their parents with the assistance of community educators with a view 
to improving the children's preparation for Basic Education; 
(m)
"MINED" means Ministerio de Educación, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Education;
(n)
"Municipal Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Municipal Grant" means a grant made by the Borrower to an Eligible 
Municipality out of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of financing a portion of 
the cost of a Municipal Subproject;
(p)
"Municipal Subproject" means any of the activities under Part C.4 of the 
Project;
(q)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, describing the criteria and 
procedures for implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(r)
"Preschool Education" means the education services provided in the 
Borrower’s territory for children who are four to six years old;
(s)
"Procurement Agent" means the firm of procurement agents referred to in 
Section I Part B.2 (c)  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(t)
"School Council" means a council (Consejo Directivo Escolar), established 
pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 665 published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette on March 22, 1996, for the management of a public school, which is made up of 
parents, teachers, students and the school director;
(u)
"School Grants" means grants (Bonos Escolares) to be made by the Borrower 
to Community Education Associations, School Councils and Catholic School Councils for 
the purpose of financing Basic Education school initiatives to improve school 
performance, including materials, supplies, equipment, and operational and maintenance 
expenditures; and
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.".
2.
Section 2.02 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts 
disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be disbursed) by the Borrower under a 
Municipal Grant; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services and incremental 
operating costs required for Parts A, B, C.1 through C.3 and D of the Project, all to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank or a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event 
the account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.".
Page  3
3.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Parts A, B, C.1 through C.3 and D of the Project, 
through MINED, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, 
educational and pedagogical practices, and  in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project; and
(ii)
(A) cause each Eligible Municipality to carry out the 
corresponding activities under Part C.4 of the Project (as set 
forth in the corresponding Municipal Agreement) with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
technical, financial, educational and environmental practices; (B) 
in accordance with said agreement, take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each Eligible 
Municipality to perform such obligations; and (C) not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with the carrying out of said activities under said Part of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, operate and 
maintain, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a revolving fund in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with a quarterly balance equivalent to the 
funding requirements for the next three months of Project activities as provided in 
the annual budget referred to in Section 3.04 (c) to this Agreement.".
4.
A new Section is added after Section 3.06 which shall read as follows:
"Section 3.07. (a) Upon approval of a Municipal Subproject by the Borrower, the 
Borrower shall: (i) transfer, on a grant basis, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated under Category (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule1 to 
this Agreement, to the corresponding Eligible Municipality pursuant to an agreement 
(the Municipal Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and said Eligible 
Municipality, on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the obligation of said Eligible Municipality to carry out the Municipal 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; and (ii) 
maintain records and accounts, in a manner acceptable to the Bank (including any other 
information and/or documentation as the Bank may request from time to time) to enable 
the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
(b)
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Municipal Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Municipal Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, the 
Municipal Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail.".
5.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended in its entirety to read 
as set forth in Annex A to this Amendment Letter.
6.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
"3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (8) set forth in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule in respect of an Municipal Grant unless the corresponding Municipal 
Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto.".
Page  4
7.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as set forth in Annex B to 
this Amendment Letter.
8.
Schedule 4 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as set forth in Annex C to 
this Amendment Letter.
9.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
"1. (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;".
II.
Supplemental Letter:
The Attachment is hereby amended in its entirety to read as set forth in Annex D 
to this Amendment Letter.
III.
Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall: (a) be executed in two counterparts each of which 
shall be an original; and (b) have effect as of January 13, 2001 upon receipt by the 
Bank of: (i) one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; and (ii) evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Operational Manual has been amended in accordance 
with the terms of this Amendment Letter. Please confirm your agreement to the 
foregoing amendments by signing and dating the two counterparts of this Amendment 
Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ José Luis Trigueros
Minister of Finance
Date:
April 6, 2001
Annex A
"1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
 (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
    17,600,000
87% 
for Part B.6
of the Project
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
     6,000,000 
100% of foreign
and furniture for 
costs; 100% of
Parts A, B, C.1 and 
local expenditures
C.2 of the Project
(ex-factory cost) and
Page  5
87% of other items 
procured locally local
(3)
Consultants’ services
    6,000,000 100%
(including Procurement
Agents) for Parts A, B, C.1
C.2, C.3 and D
of the Project
(4)
Training
   10,000,000 100%
(5)
Books and printing
   15,500,000 100% of foreign
services 
expenditures and 87% 
of local expenditures
(6)
MINED’s 
    1,000,000 75% until
fixed-term staff
disbursements under
this Category shall 
have reached an 
aggregate amount 
equal to $250,000; 
50% until 
disbursements 
under this Category 
shall have reached 
aggregate amount 
equal to $600,000; 
and 30% thereafter
(7)
Incremental
   21,750,000 100% until 
operating costs
disbursements under
this Category shall 
have reached an 
aggregate amount 
equal to $3,000,000; 
75% until
disbursements under 
this Category shall 
have reached 
aggregate amount 
equal to $11,000,000; 
50% until 
disbursements under 
this category shall 
have reached 
aggregate amount 
equal to $17,000,000; 
and 30% thereafter
(8)
Municipal Grants
    1,150,000 100% of amounts
disbursed for goods,
works and 
consultants’ services
(9)
Unallocated
    9,000,000
   TOTAL
   88,000,000".
Annex B
"SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand coverage of Preschool Education 
and Basic Education; (b) to improve the quality of Preschool Education and Basic 
Education; and (c) to strengthen and modernize the Borrower’s institutional capacity 
to provide education services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
Page  6
objectives:
Part A:
Expansion of Access to Preschool and Basic Education 
1.
Establishment of EDUCO schools, including the provision of equipment and 
furniture required therefor and the payment of teachers’ salaries on a declining 
basis.
2.
(a)
Development and carrying out of a pilot program for promotion of Initial 
Education, based on the EDUCO parent school model (escuela de padres) targeted to poor 
children in rural and marginal urban areas; and (b) strengthening of the existing 
EDUCO Parent School program.
3.
(a)
Establishment of accelerated education methodologies to address specific 
problems and needs of over-age students;  (b) strengthening of the multi-grade program 
(aulas alternativas) in communities with a low number of school-age children, high 
desertion and/or repetition rates; and (c) development of teaching materials and a 
special promotion system therefor.
Part B:
Improvement of Quality in Initial, Preschool and Basic Education
1.
(a)
Review and design of the curriculum for: (i) Initial Education; (ii) 
special education for handicapped and gifted students; and (iii) accelerated education 
programs for over-age students; (b) review, design and provision of: (i) educational 
materials for Preschool Education and Basic Education teachers and students; (ii) 
textbooks, equipment and educational materials for Preschool Education and Basic 
Education classrooms; and (iii) books for public and school libraries.
2.
Development and carrying out of a pilot program (Fondo Alegría) to support 
Formative Extracurricular Activities for students in marginal urban areas in the 
Borrower’s territory.
3.
Strengthening of training programs for in-service and pre-service Preschool 
Education and Basic Education teachers, and provision of in-service training programs 
for Preschool Education and Basic Education teachers, school principals and 
supervisors.
4.
Strengthening of MINED’s capacity to improve the national evaluation system to 
measure: (a) the achievements of Preschool Education and Basic Education students; and 
(b) the impact of the Project in the Borrower’s education system.
5.
Evaluation of, and support (including training of teachers) to, the existing 
school health and nutrition programs (escuela saludable).
6.
(a) Construction or rehabilitation, as the case may be, of public school 
facilities (including EDUCO school facilities); and (b) implementation of preventive 
maintenance programs for said schools.
Part C:
Institutional  Strengthening and Modernization of MINED 
1.
Strengthening of the managerial capacity and institutional reform at the central 
and departmental levels of the Borrower’s government by: (i) providing technical 
assistance; (ii) revising MINED’s operations manual; (iii) promoting staff development 
activities for personnel at the central and departmental levels; and (iv) developing a 
financial planing and monitoring system. 
2.
Promotion of greater autonomy in rural and urban schools, by strengthening the 
management capabilities of Community Education Associations, School Councils and 
Catholic School Councils through the provision of: (i) technical assistance; (ii) 
training of teachers, principals, supervisors and members of such Associations and 
Councils; (iii) training materials; and (iv) School Grants. 
3.
Carrying out of public communication strategies to strengthen the support for 
and public awareness of the program described in the Education Reform Program Letter.
4.
Carrying out of municipal education activities under the jurisdiction of 
Eligible Municipalities, said activities to include, inter alia, the reconstruction of 
libraries and the carrying out of disaster mitigation awareness programs and any other 
activity approved by the Bank, all for the benefit of students of Preschool and Basic 
Education. 
Part D:
 Administration, monitoring, and evaluation of the Project
Page  7
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of MINED’s 
capacity to carry out, monitor and evaluate the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.".
Annex C
"SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Printing Services
Part A:
General
Goods, works and printing services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (other than 
vehicles) and printing services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and printing services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Procurement Agent
For the purpose of handling all the procurement under this Part B, the Borrower 
through MINED shall employ a Procurement Agent.  Such agent shall be employed in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.10 of the Guidelines defined in Section 
II, Part A of this Schedule.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Vehicles estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works (with the exception of those procured under Part C.6 (b) below) 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (with the exception of those procured under Part C. 3 (b), C.4 (b) 
and C.5 (b) below) and printing services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$250,000 but $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an aggregate amount of 
$340,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
Page  8
(c)
In the procurement of works, printing services and goods in accordance 
with this Part C.2, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank.
3.
International Shopping
(a)
Computing equipment, software and vehicles (with the exception of those 
procured under paragraph (b) and Part C.5 (b) below) estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent in respect of computing equipment and software, and $20,000 equivalent in 
respect of vehicles, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, computing 
equipment, software and vehicles estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
(a) 
Goods (other than computing equipment, software and vehicles) and 
printing services (with the exception of those procured under paragraph (b) and Part 
C.5 (b) below) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $275,000 equivalent in respect of goods and $340,000 equivalent in 
respect of printing services, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, goods 
(other than computing equipment, software and vehicles) and printing services 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Books (with the exception of those procured under paragraph (b) below) 
estimated to cost less than $4,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $4,200,000 equivalent in respect of books may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
 Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, goods 
(including books), with the Bank’s prior agreement, may be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
(a)
Works (with the exception of those procured under paragraph (b) below) 
estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount of $5, 600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
(b)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, works 
(including the design of said works) estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent 
per contract shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  9
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods, works and printing services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts 
B.1 and C.1 hereof; (b) the first two contracts for works and any contract for works 
costing more than $500,000 equivalent awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 
hereof; and (c) the first contract for goods and printing services awarded pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Consultants’ services for auditing services, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $2,100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(a)
Consultants’ services (other than those referred to in Part C.1 above and 
paragraph (b) below) and Procurement Agents’ services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,640,600 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(b)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, 
consultants’ services (other than those referred to in Parts C.1 above and C.3 below) 
estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Quality-based Selection
Page  10
Consultants’ services for the supervision of works under Part B.6 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 per contract shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of $2,566,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants' services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each implementing agency 
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of the Loan Agreement , the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignment 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior approval.".
