Report No. 903a-GH                                                        FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Second Highway Project
Ghana
December 2, 1975
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Cxrrency Unit  -  Cedi (0)
01.00          =  100 pesewas
USM.o00        =  01l15
01.00          = US$0.87
01 million     = US$870,000.
Fiscal Year:  July 1 - June 30
System of Wei&hts and easures: British/US (Metric system being introduced
since September 1, 1975)
BritisU                  YMetric
1 foot (ft)           = 0.305 meter (m)
I mile (mi)           = 1.61 kilometers (km)         2
1 square mile (sq mi) = 2.59 square kilometers (km )
1 ton (long ton)       = 1.016 metric tons (m tons)
Abbreviations and Acronymas
AESC             - Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation
BHC              - Bank for Housing and Construction
BRRI             - Building and Road Research Institute
CAG              - Civil Engineering and Building Contractors' Association
of Ghana
EIU              - Economist Intelligence Unit Ltd. (UK)
GHA              - Ohana Highway Authority
KfW              - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MTC              - Ministry of Transport and Communications
MWH              - Ministry of Works and Housing
ODM              - Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
Plan Guidelines - Gaidelines for the Five-Year Development Plan (1975-80)
RJA              - Roy Jorgensen Associates of Canada Ltd.
-SCC             - State Construction Corporation
SWKP             - Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick & Partners (UK)
vpd              - vebicles per day



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY           ........................               ..........................                 i  -  v
1.  INTRODUCTION                      ...............................                                  1
2.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....................                                                          2
A.      Economic  Setting    ...............................                                   2
B.      The  Transport  System    ...........................                                  3
C.      Transport  Planning  and  Coordination    ....                         ........        5
3.  ROADS                        ...............................7 
A.      The  Network  and  Its  Traffic    ....................                                7
B.      The  Road  Transport  Industry    ....................                                 7
C.     Administration    .................................                                     8
D.      Planning  ........................................                                     9
E.      Financing    ......................................                                   10
F.      Engineering  and  Construction    ...................                                 11
G.      Maintenance    ....................................                                   12
4.      BANK  FOR  HOUSING  AND  CONSTRUCTION    ...................                                  13
5.     THE  PROJECT    .........................................                                      15
A.      Description    ....................................                                   15
-   Road  Maintenance  Program    ....................                                16
-   Reconstruction  of  Achimota-Nsawam  Road                            ......       19
-  Strengthening of the Domestic Construction
Industry    ..........     *              .......................            20
-   Studies    .....................................                                  22
-   Technical  Assistance    ........................                                23
B.      Cost  Estimates    ..............                ..       .................           23
C.      Execution    ....... ...........                     ....................             25
D.      Financing  and  Disbursements    .......                  ..       ...........        26
This report has been prepared by Messrs. H. Kaden (Engineer), P. Parker
(Economist), and B. Hansen (DFC Consultant) following an appraisal mission
in January/February 1975.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
6.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...............................    28
A.   General    ......................................   28
B.  Maintenance Program  ......      ....................    29
C.   Strengthening of the Domestic Construction
Industry   ....................................   30
D.   Reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam Road  ...    31
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............    32
TABLES
1.  Capital Investments in the Transport Sector, 1969-73
2.  Composition of the Road Network
3.  Composition of the Road Vehicle Fleet and New Registrations, 1965-74
4.  MWH Actual and Budgeted Expenditures on Roads, 1970-76
5.  Estimated Revenues from Road Users, 1967-72
6.  Road Design Standards
7.  Annual Expenditures by PWD on Road Contracts, 1969-74
8.  Equipment to be procured with Bank/IDA Funds
9.  Project Cost Estimates
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Representative Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
12.  Annual Deliveries of Motor Fuel for Domestic Consumption
13. Annual Incremental Economic Benefits and Costs of Maintaining
Roads in Good Condition
14. Estimated Vehicle Speed and Vehicle Composition Used in
Evaluation of Maintenance Program
15. First Phase of Maintenance Program - Economic Costs and Benefits
16. Reconstruction of Achimota-Nsawam Road - Economic Costs and Benefits
17. Incremental Costs and Benefits of Reconstructing Achimota-Nsawam
Road on Parallel Rather than Existing Alignment
ANNEXES
1.  Bank for Housing and Construction
2.  Partial List of Studies Undertaken and Planned in the Transport
Sector
3.   The Construction Industry in Ghana
4.   Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies
CHART
Organization Chart of GHA (9826 R)
MAP
Ghana - Second Highway Project (IBRD 3691 R2)



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The transport system in Ghana is dominated by an extensive 20,000
ml road network which carries about three-quarters of all domestic freight
traffic. Road transport is supplemented by an 800 mi rail system which
essentially serves the "Golden Triangle" area (connecting the cities of Accra
and Kumasi and the port of Takoradi), and which specializes in the movement
of timber, cocoa, and minerals for export. Domestic air transport of passen-
gers and freight, and water transport along the coast or on Lake Volta, are
not yet significant.
ii.       In the years following independence, major investments were made in
transport infrastructure (mainly primary roads), and the extent of the system
is now generally adequate to serve anticipated demand. More recently, invest-
ments in the sector over 1969-73 totalled about 0 84 million (about US$62
million), equivalent to almost 20% of total Government capital expenditures
in that period; about 80% of these investments were for highway development.
Now, however, some infrastructure and equipment have been allowed to deter-
iorate, and a major effort in backlog maintenance and rehabilitation is
warranted. Government policy in the current Plan period 1975-80 is therefore
appropriately directed to preservation and improvement of existing infrastruc-
ture, and especially to development of the rural road network. It is planned
to implement programs which would lead to optimum utilization of all available
facilities in the various modes, and particularly to ensure that the country's
economic growth is not hampered by lack of an efficient transport system.
iii.      Since several agencies are involved in the organization and plan-
ning of transport investments, the Government is focussing its efforts first
on improving the capacity of individual agencies before undertaking compre-
hensive coordination programs. However, one of the principal issues needing
urgent attention is coordination in the Kumasi-Takoradi corridor which now
carries some 80% of total railway freight traffic, and where road transport
has been capturing an increasing share of export traffic in cocoa and timber,
resulting, among other things, in the need for intensified road maintenance
and early comprehensive rehabilitation of certain road sections. Government
has in the past deliberately avoided construction of a primary through-road
in order to give the railway a competitive advantage; currently, however,
major investments are being contemplated in both modes, and in recognition of
this potential duplication, the Government is planning execution of a study
on road/rail competition in the corridor.
iv.       An important development in highway administration has been the
creation by Governmental Decree of December 1974 of the Ghana Highway
Authority (GHA) to take over road responsibilities from the Public Works
Department (PWD) of the Ministry of Works and Housing. GHA has been given
responsibility for practically all aspects of the planning, design, construction,



- ii -
maintenance, and administration of all public roads (including connecting
ferry services), and has also taken over the administration of feeder roads.
Unlike PWD, GHA will not be responsible for a variety of other activities not
related to roads, such as buildings maintenance. This new organizational
structure is the key element in bringing about a badly needed improvement in
highway administration, and the proposed project will provide much of the
initial financial and technical assistance required to help GHA function
effectively.
v.        Construction and maintenance of transport infrastructure is executed
almost exclusively by the local construction industry which comprises one of
the largest sectors of the economy. Construction investments over 1965-72
averaged about 0 143 million (US$125 million) annually, representing over
60% of gross domestic fixed investment. There has been significant expansion
in domestic private enterprise in recent years, but the demand for new build-
ings and civil works has greatly exceeded the capacity of the Ghanaian con-
struction industry to supply them, and Government efforts in other sectors
of the economy have been impeded. In response to this problem, the Govern-
ment in 1972 established the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) essen-
tially to encourage and facilitate the participation of domestic and foreign
capital in schemes in the housing and construction sectors. BHC is authorized
to provide financing in the form of term-loans with or without security, issue
guarantees, make equity investments, and borrow funds locally and abroad; it
is also authorized to accept deposits, and provides its clients with working
capital finance.
vi.       A review of BHC's performance to date indicates that it has been
well managed and staffed with qualified personnel. Although it is a govern-
ment agency, it has been operating with minimal apparent government influence,
and with representation of the private sector in policy-making. BFC's short-
term financial position is good due to increased deposits, and provisions
for a sound long-term resource position are underway through a recent bond
issue; however, BHC has no foreign currency funds at its disposal. Overall
prospects for BHC's capital structure, its profitability, liquidity position,
and debt service ability, are expected to remain satisfactory over at least
the next few years.
vii.      The Government has designated BHC to act as the intermediary for
providing assistance to the domestic construction industry. Funds from the
proposed Loan will be provided to BHC for on-lending to selected domestic road
contractors and quarry operators. This channelling of funds through BHC for
equipment purchases and provision of technical assistance is expected to help
strengthen the institution at this stage, and ultimately, its long-term efforts
in stimulating the domestic construction enterprise.
viii.     Bank Group involvement in the transport sector has to date been
only for highway development. An engineering Credit (S7-GH, US$1.5 million,
1969) helped finance detailed engineering for new highways from Ktmasi to
Accra and to Takoradi. The design work was satisfactorily completed in 1971,



- iii -
but the Government in concurrence with the Association, decided to defer
construction in favor of rehabilitating and maintaining existing roads. In
support of this policy, a First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH, US$13 million,
November 1973) was prepared which consisted of rehabilitation and improvement
of about 345 mi of trunk roads and studies for similar work on another 750 mi;
procurement and installation of equipment for traffic control and pavement
surveys; and preparation of a comprehensive program to improve road mainte-
nance. Project execution has been satisfactory. However, the scope of
rehabilitation will have to be reduced, primarily because heavier traffic
loads than anticipated demand more comprehensive works than envisaged, and
also because inflationary cost increases are higher than estimated. The
revised cost of this project item will still exceed the original estimates,
but the Government is prepared to provide the additional funds. Preinvest-
ment studies for further rehabilitation works have been carried out by con-
sultants Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick & Partners (SWKP, UK). Procurement
procedures for the equipment purchases are underway. A comprehensive eight-
year program of road maintenance is being prepared by GHA, with technical
assistance provided by consultants financed by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA).
ix.       The proposed Second Highway Project consists of:  (i) a four-year
road maintenance program, including equipment procurement, technical assis-
tance, and training of GHA staff at all levels; (ii) reconstruction of the
Achimota-Nsawam road (16 mi); (iii) financial and technical assistance to BHC
for equipment procurement and for development of private domestic road con-
tractors and quarry owners; and (iv) studies on road-building materials; the
optimum level of feeder road investment in the country; and the appropriate
labor/equipment mix for selected road maintenance activities.
x.        The total capital cost of the project is estimated at US$31.7 mil-
lion equivalent net of taxes, of which about US$28.7 million (90%) in foreign
costs; taxes and duties are estimated at US$4.1 million equivalent. It is
proposed that the foreign capital costs will be met primarily by a Loan of
US$18 million and a Credit of US$10 million; the remaining foreign costs of
about US$700,000 equivalent for technical assistance services to GHA and BHC
will be financed by CIDA, the Overseas Development Ministry (ODM, UK), and
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Government will finance
the local component of capital costs of the project, and the entire recurrent
cost of road maintenance.
xi.       GHA will have overall responsibility for execution of the proposed
project, including coordination with BHC. BHC will be directly responsible
for that part of the project to be implemented with Loan funds on-lent to
domestic road contractors and quarry owners. GHA is planning to retain con-
sultants Roy Jorgensen Associates Ltd. (RJA, Canada) for the road maintenance
program, and SWKP for construction supervision; both these consultants are
already engaged in similar works for GHA with counterpart participation, and
the Bank/IDA is agreeable to this arrangement.



- iv-
xii.      Bidding documents for reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam road
are being prepared by SWKP on the basis of completed detailed engineering.
The construction contract will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Work is
scheduled to commence in mid-1976, and to take about two years to complete.
xiii.     GHA will procure maintenance and workshop equipment (including
spare parts) on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines, with due regard to the requirements of standard-
ization. The first bids are expected to be received by March 1976. The
following items would be exempted from international competitive bidding:
(i) spare parts for equipment already in GHA's possession may be procured
on the basis of quotations obtained from agents in Ghana of foreign suppliers,
up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000 equivalent; and (ii) special equip-
ment items estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent each, for GHA's
training center and workshops, may be procured on the basis of offers for
similar equipment from at least two suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000 equivalent. All suppliers will be required to provide an adequate
after-sales service in the Accra area.
xiv.      It is proposed that the Government on-lend US$7.5 million of the
Loan funds to BHC at an interest rate of 10% p.a.; the Government will assume
the foreign exchange risk under the proposed lending. BHC will in turn lend
these funds to the domestic construction industry, generally at an interest
rate of about 15% p.a.; contractors' equipment will be financed on a hire-
purchase basis, in accordance with the relevant Decree issued by the Govern-
ment.  BHC will roll over these funds in order to further promote development
of the domestic construction industry. The initial repayment schedule for
funds passed on by the Government to BHC would be 25 years, including five
years of grace. About US$300,000 of the funds earmarked for road contractors
will be used for purchase of spare parts for existing equipment. The US$1.0
million allocated for existing quarries will most probably benefit about five
operators.
xv.       For procurement of equipment and spares under the BHC part of the
project, sub-borrowers will be required, to the extent practicable, to
obtain quotations from at least three suppliers for equipment purchases, and
from the relevant local suppliers for spare parts; all quotations will have
to be checked and approved by BHC.
xvi.      Loan/Credit proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(i) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of equipment, spare parts, and tools; (ii) 65%
of total expenditures for the reconstruction work, representing the estimated
foreign exchange cost of this item; and (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures
for consulting services and technical assistance.
xvii.     The primary purpose of the proposed project is to protect past
investments in the highway system by assuring adequate maintenance of the



- v -
entire network; also, to prevent the recent uneconomic increases in the use
of scarce foreign exchange resources to pay for the high cost of operating
vehicles on poorly maintained roads.
xviii.    The economic return from investments in road maintenance and reha-
bilitation has been conservatively quantified on the basis of vehicle operat-
ing costs only. The first four-year phase of the planned eight-year mainte-
nance program is estimated to yield a return of about 54%, and reconstruction
of the Achimota-Nsawam road a return of about 14%. Additional institution-
building benefits are an important project objective, but they have not been
quantified. These benefits include strengthening GHA, promoting the develop-
ment of BHC, and assisting the development of the domestic construction in-
dustry. Benefits from deferring road construction, stimulating additional
production, time savings, and accident reduction, are also not included in
the calculations.
xix.      The proposed project is suitable for lending to the Government of
Ghana in the form of a Loan of US$18 million and a Credit of US$10 million.
An appropriate Loan term would be 25 years, including 5 years of grace; the
Credit would be on standard IDA terms.






GHANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In support of its development policy during the current Plan period
1975-80, the Government of Ghana has requested Bank/IDA assistance in financ-
ing a project which focusses on maintenance and rehabilitation of the country's
road network. It is planned to realize this objective by strengthening the
newly created Ghana Highway Authority (GHA), as well as those sectors of the
domestic construction industry which would participate in execution of the
road maintenance works. For the latter, financial and technical assistance
would be made available to contractors through the Bank for Housing and
Construction (BHC), a domestic development bank (paras. 4.01-4.04 and Annex 1).
1.02      The proposed project would be the third Bank Group operation in the
transport sector. An engineering Credit (S7-GH, US$1.5 million, 1969) helped
finance detailed engineering for new highways from Kumasi, the second largest
city in the country, to the capital at Accra and to the port of Takoradi.
The design work was completed satisfactorily in 1971, but Government in con-
currence with the Association, decided to defer construction in favor of
rehabilitating and maintaining existing roads. In support of this policy,
a First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH, US$13 million, November 1973) was
prepared consisting mainly of: (i) rehabilitation of about 345 mi of trunk
roads; (ii) preinvestment studies for rehabilitation of another 750 mi of
trunk roads; and (iii) preparation of a road maintenance program.
1.03      Project execution has been generally satisfactory.  The first
contract for rehabilitation work on Anyinam-Kumasi (81 mi) was awarded to the
State Construction Corporation (SCC, Ghana) in October 1974, and bids for
Yamoransa-Takoradi (57 mi) were received in November 1975. However, traffic
loads on some road sections have been increasing faster than anticipated at
project appraisal, warranting more comprehensive rehabilitation work than
originally planned. The Government has requested the Association to reduce
the scope of the project, limiting the rehabilitation item to the two road
sections above-mentioned. Even so, the revised cost of this project compo-
nent will exceed the original estimate, but the Government is prepared to
provide the additional funds.
1.04      Preinvestment studies under the project for further rehabilitation
works were carried out by consultants Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick & Partners
(SWKP, UK); also, because of the poor response in bidding for the rehabilita-
tion projects, SWKP made a brief study of the domestic construction industry.
A comprehensive eight-year program of road maintenance has been prepared by
CIDA-financed consultants Roy Jorgensen Associates Ltd. (RJA, Canada) and
Delcanda International (Canada).



- 2 -
1.05       The proposed Second Highway Project has been prepared on the basis
of all the studies abovementioned. It consists of: (a) a four-year road
maintenance program, including equipment procurement, technical assistance,
and training of GHA staff at all levels; (b) reconstruction of the Achimota-
Nsawam road (16 mi); (c) financial and technical assistance to BHC for equip-
ment procurement for development of domestic road contractors and quarry owners;
and (d) studies on (i) road-building materials; (ii) the optimum level of
feeder road investment in the country; and (iii) the appropriate labor/equip-
ment mix for selected road maintenance activities.
1.06       The total capital cost of the project is estimated at US$31.7
million equivalent net of taxes, including foreign costs of about US$28.7
million (90%); taxes and duties are estimated at US$4.1 million equivalent.
The foreign capital costs will be met primarily by a Loan of US$18 million
and a Credit of US$10 million; the remaining costs of about US$700,000 for
technical assistance services to GHA and BHC will be financed by CIDA, the
Overseas Development Ministry (ODM, UK), and the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP). The Government will finance the local component of capital
costs of the project, and the entire recurrent cost of road maintenance.
1.07       This report is based on the studies by SWKP and the CIDA consultants
(para. 1.04), and on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. H. Kaden (Engineer), P. Parker (Economist), and B. Hansen (DFC Con-
sultant) which visited Ghana in January/February 1975.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01       Per capita GDP ($300 in 1972) failed to grow in real terms during
the preceding fifteen years, as population (estimated at 9.1 million in 1972)
grew faster than income. The Ghanaian economy depends primarily on export of
a few traditional commodities including cocoa, gold, and timber. Slow economic
growth was due to: (i) a general neglect of agriculture, leading to a decline
in cocoa production and an increase in agricultural imports; (ii) the low
domestic value added and import dependence of the industries established in
the early 1960's; and (iii) the resulting balance of payments and external
debt problems. The situation has been aggravated by Government provision
of extensive social services, and the operation of a large number of uneco-
nomic enterprises.
2.02       The economy has recently been experiencing additional difficulties,
including a deteriorating balance of payments position, an inflation rate of
18% in 1974, and difficulty in applying the import licensing system to all
sectors. This latter system had the undesirable effect of limiting the
importation of spare parts and materials for existing equipment, so that
the utilization of prior foreign exchange earnings was effectively reduced;



- 3 -
recognizing this problem, the Government has recently given increased prior-
ity to the importation of required spare parts supplies. In spite of all the
above difficulties, however, GDP grew in real terms at an estimated 6.5% in
1974, and the Bank Group expects growth to average 5.5% p.a. over 1974-79,
depending in part on the Government's ability to correct the abovementioned
structural deficiencies, and to gain sufficient access to foreign assistance.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      The transport system is dominated by an extensive 20,000 mi road
network which carries about three-quarters of all domestic freight traffic.
Road transport is supplemented by an 800 mi railway network. Domestic air
transport of passengers and freight, and water transport along the coast or
on Lake Volta, are not yet significant. The infrastructure for transport
was expanded substantially in the years following independence, and is now
generally adequate in extent to serve anticipated demand. In the period
1969-73, investments in the sector totalled about 0 84 million (US$62 million),
almost all governmental, equivalent to about 18% of the Government's total
capital expenditures during those years (Table 1). Of these investments,
about 80% were for roads, and much of the remainder for air transport; expen-
ditures for ports and railways were negligible. However, some infrastructure
and equipment have been allowed to deteriorate, and a major effort in backlog
maintenance and rehabilitation is now warranted.
Highways
2.04      Details of the highway system and its administration, as well as
the characteristics of the road transport industry, are discussed in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.05      Railways are run by the semi-autonomous Ghana Railway and Ports
Corporation, which is responsible to the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions (MTC). The 800 mi system essentially serves the "Golden Triangle",
with additional branch lines connecting mostly mines and the port of Tema.
The longest possible haul is about 190 mi, and the average length of about
120 mi for freight is therefore uneconomically short for non-bulk traffic.
2.06      Railway freight traffic is specialized, with timber, cocoa, manganese
ore, and bauxite accounting for almost 90% of cargo handled. Four-fifths of
all traffic moves on the western line, primarily from Kumasi to the port of
Takoradi for export. Road transport has provided increasing service and price
competition to railways in the recent past, resulting in a 25% decline in
total rail freight carried during the last five years to about 1.2 million
tons in 1974. It is expected that rail freight transport will in future
concentrate on bauxite, significant but lower volumes of cocoa and timber,
and certain non-exports of high bulk and low value.



- 4 -
2.07      There was no adjustment in rail tariffs between 1958 and 1971 in
spite of the doubling of the general price level, with the result that many
services, particularly passenger services, were priced below marginal cost.
However, tariffs have been selectively increased in stages since 1972 follow-
ing recommendations by consultants Henderson, Hughes, and Busby (UK), and
are now more in line with cost and marketing considerations given present
levels of efficiency.
2.08      The railways' financial situation has been deteriorating since
FY 1966, reaching a deficit of about US$16 million equivalent in FY 1974.
This was mainly attributed to (i) the continuing diversion of traffic (cocoa,
timber, passengers) to roads; and (ii) rising operating costs due to higher
wages, a larger number of employees (now about 16,000), and increased costs
of petroleum and other imports. The railways' budget is cross-subsidized
partly from port operations within the joint Railway and Ports Corporation,
and further subsidized from the Government budget. Detailed investment
and operations recommendations have been prepared by Transmark, a consultant
agency of British Railways financed by ODM, and are currently under review
by the Ghana Railways.
Ports
2.09      The two major ports, Tema and Takoradi, are generally adequate to
handle foreseeable traffic which currently averages about 5 million tons of
export/import cargo annually. Both ports are well connected by road and
rail to their hinterlands. Tema is a modern port which handles most of the
country's imports, while Takoradi services mostly bulk exports, including
bauxite, manganese, and timber. There is currently some problem of opera-
tional congestion at both ports, and the Government plans to relieve this
by purchasing new cargo-handling equipment and streamlining customs procedures.
In addition, some dredging may be warranted of the Tema port entrance, and
possibly also of the channels alongside the petroleum, alumina, and clinker
berths.
Inland Waterways
2.10      Creation of the 25 mi long Volta Lake by construction of the
Akosombo Dam (financed partly by Loan 310-GH, US$47.0 million, 1962) has severed
several road links, and isolated some communities in a narrow region along
the Togo border (see Map). The Government is currently investigating expan-
sion of longitudinal service on the Lake due to an expected increase in trade
with Upper Volta, although previous studies have failed to identify suffi-
cient demand to warrant investment. The 40 mi road link from the dam at
Akosombo to the port of Tema has gradients of up to 13%, and is difficult
for trucks to negotiate. The Government is investigating several alternatives
for Improvement, including a canal, rail link, or road improvement. Signifi-
cant traffic volumes will need to be identified, however, to justify a large
investment.



-5-
Air Transport
2.11      The Department of Civil Aviation of MTC is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of airports; maintenance of runways is currently
delegated to GHA. The international airport at Accra, plus the domestic
service airports at Takoradi, Kumasi, and Tamale, constitute an adequate
infrastructure. Government-owned Ghana Airways provides scheduled domestic
services, as well as some international service. The latter are however
unprofitable at present, and the Government is taking the positive step of
investigating the consolidation of international services with Air Afrique.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.12      Several Government agencies are involved in organizing and planning
transport. The Ministry of Economic Planning (MEP) is responsible for over-
all investment planning. MTC is nominally in charge of transport policy
and regulations, and also controls the Railways and Ports Administration, the
Department of Civil Aviation, and the several state-owned corporations which
supply transport services. GHA which reports to the Ministry of Works and
Housing (MWH), is responsible for all public roads, and is taking over the
administration of feeder roads; this latter task was formerly shared between
the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Local Government
(MLG). MLG also supervises the Omnibus Services Authority which is responsible
for local bus transport. The Volta River Authority reports directly to the
Office of the Head of State.
2.13      The Government is placing increased emphasis on economic planning,
as reflected in the recent separation of MEP from the Ministry of Finance,
and the establishment of the National Economic Planning Council (NEPC) in
early 1974 to supervise preparation of the 1975-80 Five-Year Development Plan.
NEPC's Plan Guidelines (issued in January 1975) specify commendable objectives
in transport planning and coordination, including meeting transport needs at
the lowest total cost, and consolidating and modernizing existing facilities;
however, no methodology is specified for determining investment priorities
among the many proposed transport projects, or among the different economic
sectors. NEPC relies on individual ministries and agencies to determine their
own intra-sectoral priorities. Long-range planning in practice thus appears
to remain closely related to the annual budget review process.
2.14      MTC is technically responsible for coordinating transport invest-
ments. A Transport Planning Unit (TPU) was established within the Ministry
following the recommendations of a 1969 Transport Sector Study by consultants
Robert Nathan and Associates (US), and a transport economist provided by CIDA
prepared a number of recommendations on planning and specific sector issues.
He has recently been succeeded by a Ghanaian transport economist who provides
MTC with sufficient internal planning capability.
2.15      The Government has received assistance from several international
agencies over a number of years to help improve transport planning. These



- 6 -
have included, inter alia, UK assistance to Ghana Railways, the USAID-financed
study of the transport sector followed by CIDA-financed technical assistance
to MTC, and ODA and Bank/IDA assistance for highway planning.  The major
issues still affecting the transport sector are: (i) the problem of assuring
adequate maintenance of past investments, in view of the shortage of foreign
exchange for importing spare parts and equipment; (ii) the determination of
the appropriate future role and level of investment for Ghana Railways; and
(iii) the deficit operations of the several Government-owned transport cor-
porations. This latter problem extends beyond the transport sector, and is
in part a question of underlying Government policy.
2.16      The major focus of the proposed project is on adequately maintain-
ing the road network to safeguard past investments, including the necessary
planning for future maintenance activities and capital investments. The
project therefore includes technical assistance to GHA's Planning Division
(paras. 3.11 and 5.37).
2.17      With regard to Ghana Railways, the major transport artery requiring
road/rail coordination is the Kumasi-Takoradi corridor which carries some
80% of railway traffic; road transport has been capturing an increasing share
of the cocoa and timber traffic moving south to Takoradi for export, resulting,
among other things, in the need for intensified road maintenance, and early
comprehensive rehabilitation of certain road sections. Government has in the
past followed a deliberate "road gap" policy, avoiding construction of a
primary through-road in order to give the railway a competitive advantage.
Major investments in both roads and railways are however being contemplated
for this corridor, and in recognition of this potential duplication, GHA's
Planning Division and MTC's Planning Unit will initiate the collection of
traffic data and other selected information to prepare the basis for sub-
sequent execution of a study on road/rail competition in the Kumasi-Takoradi
corridor. This study will provide necessary basic data and methodology to
permit the Government to undertake a complete review of road/rail coordination
in due course.
2.18      There are also other problems and studies within the transport
sector which will require consideration by the Government. 1/ In order to
discuss these issues, and to review the progress made and experience gained
in moving toward their solution, the Government has agreed that its transport
experts will meet from time to time with Bank staff. These planning contacts
will also provide basic guidance in identifying future projects suitable for
external financing.
1/   These concern inland waterways (para. 2.10), the road transport industry
(paras. 3.04-3.06), and road user charges (para. 3.17). Annex 2 gives a
partial list of studies recently undertaken or planned in the transport
sector, with particular reference to highways.



-7 -
3. ROADS
A.   The Network and Its Traffic
3.01      The public road network totals about 20,000 mi.  Roads administered
by the former PWD consist of about 3,000 mi of paved and about 4,500 mi of
laterite- or gravel-surfaced roads; the remainder of the network comprises
feeder roads of varying standards (Table 2). GHA is in the process of carrying
out a functional classification of the entire public road network, which is
now its administrative responsibility. The density of the existing network
is generally adequate for the immediate future, but since most of the roads
were constructed 10-20 years ago, many have standards which are inadequate
for present traffic demands. There is an obvious need for some rehabilitation
as well as for intensified maintenance in order to reduce the current high
costs of vehicle operation.
3.02      As of 1974, about 95,000 vehicles were registered in the country
(Table 3). The heaviest traffic volumes occur near the Accra urban area,
where up to about 7,300 vehicles per day (vpd) have been recorded; the
routes from Accra to Kumasi and to Takoradi carry through-traffic of between
1,000 to 2,500 vpd. Only some other trunk roads carry more than 750 vpd,
and in the northern two-thirds of the country, traffic levels rarely go
above 350 vpd. The average traffic growth rate is currently about 5% p.a.
Recent counts suggest, however, that the rate is much higher for heavy
vehicles.
3.03      In 1974, the Government enacted legislation establishing a single
axle-load limit of 10 tons and maximum vehicle weight of 32 tons, and
specifying other appropriate vehicle limitations. GHA is in the process of
procuring weighbridges to assist in enforcement of the above regulations.
B.   The Road Transport Industry
3.04      The industry is characterized by two large Government enterprises--
the State Transport Corporation (STC) and the Omnibus Services Authority (OSA)
--operating in competition with a well-developed private sector. STC provides
long-distance freight and passenger services, car hire, and other transport
services. It operates a fleet of about 200 buses, 130 trucks, and 70 hire-
service cars. STC's rates are set by the Government, and now average about
US$0.093 per ton-mile for non-contract domestic haulage ($0.153 for inter-
national haulage) and about US$0.021 per passenger-mile for bus services,
levels which appear low. For a number of years STC has incurred deficits,
amounting to about US$0.9 million equivalent in 1971, the latest year for
which statistics are available. STC will find it difficult to break even,
given Government policies regarding tariffs, employment, and other issues.
3.05      OSA provides intra-city bus service, and has expanded into suburban/
rural areas. OSA operates a fleet of almost 300 buses. Fares are set by
Government, and currently average about US$0.019 per passenger mile, which



- 8 -
appears low. Following its 1972 reorganization, OSA managed by FY74 to
reduce its substantial annual operating deficits to about US$1.0 million
equivalent. A program to strengthen management and increase vehicle utiliza-
tion is being partly supported by German technical assistance.
3.06      The private goods and passenger transport industry is made up of
several medium-sized companies, and a large number of individual owner-
operators. Growth of the private sector suffered a temporary setback in
1971 following the Alien Compliance Act, which forced the departure of a
number of alien owner-drivers from the country. At present, the main prob-
lem facing the industry is the shortage of foreign exchange to purchase
spare parts and new trucks. There is evidence of competition between private
firms and STC. For example, rates charged by private truckers are generally
lower than STC rates, except in the few corridors where STC does not operate.
There are at present no tariff, entry, or route regulations affecting the
industry. Unregulated tariffs are as much as 80% higher on roads in poor
condition, and it is difficult to attract truckers into certain areas where
access is difficult, or where demand is low. The above is circumstantial
evidence that vehicle operating cost savings from road improvements will tend
to be passed on to the shipper in the form of lower tariffs or improved service
(para. 6.15).
C.   Administration
3.07      Until the establishment of GHA in December 1974, public roads were
administered by several agencies. The Ministry of Works and Housing was
responsible, through PWD, 1/ for about 6,800 miles of main roads (Table 2).
The Ministry of Local Government had charge of most of the other roads, with
their administration carried out by City, Municipal, Regional, and Local
Councils. Feeder roads were improved also by the Ministry of Youth and Rural
Development; the Cocoa Marketing Board developed other rural roads to suit
its particular needs; and the Volta River Authority built and maintained its
resettlement roads.
3.08      Since 1969, PWD underwent several organizational changes as the
Government attempted to make the administration of public roads more effi-
cient.   Results were however less than satisfactory; for example, the former
PWD regional engineers were administratively placed under the Regional Chief
Executive who received budget allocations directly from the Ministry of
Finance, making central control by PND practically impossible. By contrast,
GHA will have control over all funds for road development, although some
authority will be delegated to local government agencies.
1/   PWD's remaining responsibilities since the creation of GRA consist
mainly of construction and maintenance of Government buildings, and
some special services.



- 9-
Ghana Highway Authority
3.09      GHA was created by Governmental Decree effective December 1, 1974,
with responsibility for practically all aspects of the planning, design,
construction, maintenance, and administration of all public roads (including
feeder roads and connecting ferry services), but without the burden of other
activities not related to roads, such as buildings maintenance (see Organiza-
tion Chart). This organizational structure is essential to achieving badly
needed improvement in highway administration. The proposed project will
provide much of the technical and financial assistance required to help GHA
function effectively, especially support for the feeder road administration
which represents a substantial extension of the tasks formerly undertaken
by PWD.
3.10      The Chief Executive of GHA is well qualified for the post, having
been previously Managing Director of SCC, and Engineer-in-Chief of PWD. Most
of the other key positions indicated on the Organizational Chart have also
been filled. GHA staff presently totals about 10,000, primarily recruited
from PWD.
D.   Planning
3.11      Highway planning as previously carried out by PWD was not very
satisfactory. Some assistance was provided by consultants SWKP/EIU who in
1971 prepared a road rehabilitation program with ODM financing. Later,
when PWD's Planning Division (formerly the Highway Planning Unit) was
strengthened under the First Highway Project, these consultants formed the
nucleus of a planning staff. Government agreements under that project
assured that the Division would become fully functional, and would effective-
ly plan future highway development. GHA is now actively recruiting additional
local staff for its Planning Division, and at the Government's request, ODM
has agreed to provide the services of a highway planner/transport economist
for two years (para. 5.37).
3.12      The Planning Division has already prepared the basic framework for
highway planning, including a road classification system and the related
network analysis, traffic counts, and economic evaluation of sections total-
ling about 200 miles done in cooperation with SWKP under the ongoing First
Highway Project (Annex 2). SWKP has also helped the Division prepare special
studies including a manual of vehicle operating costs, and a survey of the
domestic contracting and quarry industries; the results of these studies have
provided much of the information required in preparing the proposed project.
3.13      The Building and Road Research Institute (BRRI) at Kumasi has
occasionally assisted in road planning by preparing some studies. GHA intends
to continue this practice, and to engage BRRI's services for further studies,
two of which are included in the proposed project (paras. 5.32-5.34).



- 10 -
E.   Financing
3.14      Funds for capital and recurrent expenditures for roads are provided
primarily from the Central Government annual budget. The size of the alloca-
tions has been generally acceptable, but the availability of cash (in parti-
cular foreign exchange) and the control of expenditures (especially for road
maintenance) have not been satisfactory. Over the period 1970-75, alloca-
tions to PWD for roads and ferries averaged about ¢ 36 million (US$31 million)
p.a. (Table 4); of this amount, about 45% each was spent on maintenance and
on betterment works, and about 10% for administration including salaries.
The Central Government also made annual allocations to other agencies for
road works; for example, in FY73 and FY74, about 0 1.7 million (US$1.5 million)
went to regional organizations for road maintenance, and about ¢ 3.2 million
(US$2.8 million) to the Department of Social Welfare and Community Develop-
ment for improvement of feeder roads.
3.15      Prior to the establishment of GHA, funds for preinvestment studies,
major construction works, and central workshops and equipment, were allo-
cated to PWD; funds for road maintenance and minor construction were allocated
directly to regional agencies, and PWD's Engineer-in-Chief had no control over
their use. Delays of several months for approval of expenditures and the
release of PWD's funds, as well as cumbersome procurement procedures, often
resulted in the loss of much of the working season for carrying out periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation operations. These problems were compounded by
the fact that unspent funds had to be returned to the Ministry of Finance at
the end of each fiscal year. Moreover, licenses for the purchase of imported
goods were usually issued only at the end of January, which meant that fre-
quently there was insufficient time to complete procurement procedures before
the end of the fiscal year. Government has streamlined the application pro-
cedures for imports in 1974/75, and this is expected to expedite the decision-
making process. GHA was also given the power to purchase directly, and to
borrow funds on its own account, further improving its fiscal efficiency.
3.16      For the future, it is planned that all road funds for recurrent ex-
penditures will be allocated from the Central Budget directly to GHA, a proce-
dure which will provide the basis for proper control of funds. The Government
has confirmed that GHA will complete its first public road inventory at end-
1976. It has also confirmed that GHA will prepare its first complete financing
plan in the form of a performance budget for FY 1976/77, and that starting in
that year, GHA will receive all funds for recurrent expenditures allocated by
the budget for public roads.
3.17      Road-user charges totalled about 0 48 million (US$42 million) in
FY72 (Table 5), the last year for which statistics are available, exceeding
PWD expenditures for that year by about 30%; more recently, the gap between
charges and expenditures has been narrower. Given the additional future
requirements for feeder road maintenance, charges in aggregate are generally
expected to be in balance with expenditures. The structure of charges, however,
tends to favor the use of large trucks; the primary reliance on motor fuel taxes



- 11 -
does not appear to adequately charge heavy vehicles for their full share of
road maintenance and construction costs. GHA is planning to study the structure
of road-user charges as a logical follow-up to the vehicle operating cost study
recently completed by consultants SWKP/EIU.
F.   Engineering and Construction
3.18      PWD's design facilities (except those for roads) have been trans-
ferred to the Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation (AESC),
a Government-owned consulting corporation which provides services in plan-
ning, design, and construction supervision for both the public and the
private sectors. There are also several private engineering consultants
established in the country. GHA carries out designs for roads and bridges
with its own staff, with occasional assistance provided by consultants.
Foreign consultants are employed on engineering studies for which domestic
firms lack the required capacity. Detailed studies of feeder roads were
carried out by BRRI assisted by USAID technical assistance in 1967/68, and
about 3,200 miles have since been improved or rehabilitated. Design standards
applied for the construction and for major improvements of roads and bridges
are generally satisfactory (Table 6).
3.19      Government's emphasis on rehabilitating and improving existing
roads is a sound policy in light of existing conditions; however, the schedule
for implementation of proposed projects requires careful review. The 1974/75
PWD budget lists 37 road projects, of which 29 are already underway. The
average allocation for these projects amounts to about 0 300,000 (US$260,000),
which appears too low for efficient execution. GHA is taking appropriate
steps to improve the programming of road works by establishing priorities
and estimating appropriate allocations for each work item.
3.20      PWD carried out practically no force account road construction;
most of the works were executed by the local contracting industry, comprising
domestic and locally-based foreign contractors (Table 7). However, because
of the limited capacity of the industry, there was the gradual development of
a bottleneck in work operations. Indeed, the response to the invitation to
bid for rehabilitation work under the First Highway Project was so poor (only
SCC responded) that the Government in late 1974 commissioned SWKP in coopera-
tion with EIU to study the state of the contracting industry. An analysis of
the industry based on the findings of this study is outlined in Annex 3 of
this report (para. 3.28).
3.21      PWD's shortage of qualified staff for supervising road contracts
meant that many works were inadequately controlled. GHA is improving this
situation by attracting more experienced personnel to its staff, while con-
tinuing to employ domestic and international consultants.



- 12 -
C.   Maintenance
3.22      During the late 50's and early 60's, the Government carried out a
major program of road construction, upgrading, and paving, to design standards
appropriate at that time. By the early 70's, however, the system had deter-
riorated into a generally poor condition, primarily because of unexpectedly
high traffic increases particularly of heavy vehicles, and also because the
maintenance organization had become inadequate due to lack of equipment and
staff, and cumbersome funding procedures.
3.23      The Government undertook phased implementation of a road rehabilita-
tion program, and also made increased funds available for maintenance, but
only limited improvements were achieved. It became clear that a more compre-
hensive maintenance effort was required, and in 1972 the Crown Agents were
appointed (with ODM financing) to prepare a study and make recommendations
for improving the organization, staffing, and methods of PWD's road mainte-
nance operations, as well as to draw up a four-year maintenance program for
roads then under PWD's jurisdiction.
3.24      A Task Force of PWD staff was created in early 1974 to prepare an
implementation program, and the Government engaged Canadian consultants Roy
Jorgensen Associates Ltd. (RJA) and Delcanda International to provide technical
assistance. The Task Force designed and implemented a management system, and
applied it on a test area; the same approach was then applied to the inventoried
network, including all PWD roads. The Task Force submitted a draft final report
in July 1974 covering immediate and future road maintenance needs in terms of
operations, management, labor and equipment, and financing. On the basis of this
information, and at the Government's request, CIDA has extended its technical
assistance arrangement to cover the services of six experts in management, road
maintenance, equipment, accounting, and training (2) until about early 1976.
CIDA has also recently approved two lending operations totalling Cn.$ 7 million
for the purchase of road maintenance equipment and related procurement services;
the remaining needs for main (PWD) roads assessed for new items of maintenance
and workshop equipment, spare parts for existing equipment, and tools, will be
financed under the proposed project (para. 5.11).
3.25      The Task Force study did not include feeder roads since they were
not under PWD's jurisdiction. Maintenance requirements for about 2,900 mi
of these roads have been investigated by BRRI, and its June 1974 report
provides guidelines for improving operations. Following the establishment
of GHA, the Task Force is preparing to compile an inventory of all feeder
roads in the country as recommended by BRRI. Preliminary assessments already
made are adequate to allow implementation of a first phase for improving feeder
road maintenance as included in the proposed project.
3.26      Routine maintenance operations have to be carried out by force
account; however, a substantial portion of mainly periodic maintenance is
suitable for contracting. The works involved consist of two basic repetitive



- 13 -
operations: regravelling and resealing. The annual volume of work, ultimately
about 1,500 mi of regravelling and about 600 mi of resealing, is sufficient
to guarantee continuity of work for the contracting industry, and offers a
unique opportunity to train domestic contractors in executing road works.
Although some regravelling was previously carried out by contractors, a
significant shortage of capacity for this and other roadworks has been noted.
3.27      Urgently required resurfacing of bituminous roads has had to be
postponed not only because of contractors' limited capacity, but also due to
lack of crushed stone. The SWKP study of the contracting industry was
therefore supplemented by a survey of the present production of quarries
and the forecasted need for road-building material. The consultants' findings
revealed that production should be doubled to meet estimated demand over the
next four years.
3.28      The abovementioned lack of capacity in the contracting industry and
in quarry production could be compensated by burdening GHA with additional
force account work. However, a more feasible approach would be to analyze
the Ghan4ian construction industry, and to formulate and implement a first-
phase program for strengthening it, as included in the proposed project
(paras. 4.01-4.03). A description of the construction industry in general,
and detalls on the road-contracting and road-building materials industries,
is given in Annex 3.
4. BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
4.01      One of the objectives of the proposed project is to foster and
promote the entrepreneurial capability of the domestic construction industry.
BHC is the institution best suited to meeting the objective of promoting the
domestic construction industry, particularly since it is the only financial
institution in the country which caters to the specific needs of the housing
and construction sectors. BHC provides a wide range of services ranging from
guarantees and bonds to short- and medium-term loans for construction activi-
ties. It is therefore particularly sensitive to problems of the private
industry, and has a good understanding of the industry's financial and
managerial needs.
4.02      By contrast, GHA's role is essentially an extraneous one as employer
of private contractors and supervisor of their field performance, and it is
therefore not particularly sensitive to their internal problems. This is
further accentuated by the competitive nature of the industry which makes it
difficult for individual contractors to communicate with or seek advice from
the employer, for instance on certain financial and management problems.
4.03      The Government has therefore designated BHC to act as intermediary
for providing assistance to the domestic construction industry. It is
expected that the channelling of funds through BHC for purchase of equipment



- 14 -
and provision of technical assistance to domestic contractors and quarry
owners will help strengthen the institution at this stage, and ultimately,
its long-term efforts in stimulating the domestic construction enterprise.
This in effect will put at the disposal of domestic contractors (more than
50% Ghanaian-owned) financial and technical means comparable to those avail-
able to counterpart international contractors (whose main place of business
is outside Ghana). BHC's function will be further complemented by the coope-
ration of GHA on various technical issues such as the classification of con-
tractors and evaluation of their performance in public works contracts, as
well as certain specific contractual requirements such as bidding guarantees
and payment procedures. BHC will in turn provide GHA with useful financial
information to assist, for example, in registering and classifying contractors,
and assessing their capacity.
4.04      Funds and technical assistance to be provided to BHC under the
proposed project will be utilized only for assisting domestic road con-
tractors and quarry operators. Although this activity will constitute only
a relatively small proportion of BHC's overall operations, this report deals
in full with BHC as an institution, primarily because strengthening BHC is
a significant intermediate objective, since the funds provided are intended
to be a first phase of assistance, to be extended when the Bank/IDA acquires
further experience with BHC as an institution.
4.05      A review of BHC's performance to date indicates that it has been
well managed and staffed with qualified personnel. Although it is a govern-
ment agency, it has been operating with minimal apparent government influence,
and with representation of the private sector in policy-making. BHC's short-
term financial position is good due to increased deposits, and provisions
for a sound long-term resource position are underway through a recent bond
issue; however, BHC has no foreign currency funds at its disposal. Overall
prospects for BHC's capital structure, its profitability, liquidity position,
and debt service ability, are expected to remain satisfactory over at least
the next few years. Annex 1 describes in detail the institutional aspects of
BHC, the status of its operations and finances, and its prospects over the
project period 1975-78.
4.06      Some important issues as detailed in Annex 1 have been discussed
and agreed with BHC. These are as follows:
(i) BHC will not extend any loan or guarantee to, or make any
investment in an enterprise, if the amount of such loan,
guarantee, or investment, when added to the principal amounts
of all other loans or guarantees extended to, or investments
made in such enterprise by BHC, would exceed either the equiva-
lent of 25% of the current value of the consolidated capital
and surplus of BHC and all its subsidiaries, or the equivalent
of 90% of the aggregate of the current gross value of the
fixed assets of such enterprise and the estimated cost to such
enterprise of the fixed assets to be financed out of the proceeds



- 15 -
of such loan or investment or covered by such guarantee
(Annex 1, para. 10);
(ii)  BHC shall cause any enterprise in which it owns more than
50% of the current value of the capital and surplus of
such enterprise to employ an experienced and qualified
management (Annex 1, para. 11); and
(iii) BHC shall maintain a debt/equity ratio satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA (Annex 1, paras. 29-30, and 48).
5. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
5.01      The proposed project, to be executed by GHA and BHC, consists of:
(a) GHA
(i)  establishment within GHA of an administrative framework and
a management system for implementing road maintenance,
including programming of operations, cost accounting, and
relating costs to the achievement of planned objectives;
(ii) execution of the first four-year phase of a planned eight-
year road maintenance program, by applying effective
routine maintenance 1/ to about 7,500 mi of main roads
and about 6,000 mi of feeder roads; and effective periodic
maintenance to about 5,000 mi of main roads and selected
feeder roads;
(iii) establishment by September 30, 1976 of a comprehensive
program to train GHA maintenance personnel and contractors'
staff in technical skills required to execute the operations
in (ii) above, and implementation of the first three-year
phase of that program;
(iv) reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam road (16 mi);
(v)  execution of studies of:  (1) alternative methods for
road construction and maintenance due to the limited
availability of laterite; (2) the optimum level of
feeder road investment in the country; and (3) the
economic combination of labor and equipment for selected
road maintenance activities; and
(vi) technical assistance to the Planning Division of GHA.
1/   According to GHA terminology, this includes day-to-day and recurrent
maintenance.



- 16 -
(b) BHC
(i)  term-loans to domestic road contractors for procurement
of road maintenance equipment and spare parts;
(ii) term-loans to eligible existing domestic-owned quarries
for procurement of equipment and spare parts; and
(iii) technical assistance to BHC in the appraisal and super-
vision of sub-loans under (i) and (ii) above, as well as
to the contractors and quarry operators for execution of
their commitments under the road maintenance program.
Road Maintenance Program
5.02      GHA's Road Maintenance Task Force has prepared the outline of an
eight-year program (1975-83) under which the full range of maintenance oper-
ations would be applied regularly to all primary and secondary roads, and
to about half of the feeder road network. The remaining feeder roads,
consisting mainly of earth tracks, would receive only the routine maintenance
required to provide access during the dry season.
5.03      Efficient implementation of the first four-year phase of the
program will be possible only if GRA can accomplish the following: (a) estab-
lish an appropriate organizational and administrative framework; (b) establish
an effective management system; (c) train its own and contractors' staff;
(d) acquire adequate maintenance and workshop equipment; (e) secure adequate
Government funding; and (f) coordinate its feeder road operations with rural
development programs. The proposed project will help meet all these needs
as discussed in the following paragraphs.
Organizational and Administrative Framework
5.04      The Decree creating GHA provides the legal basis to establish the
organization required for the Authority to assume full responsibility for
all public roads. The field organization for about 7,500 mi of main roads
previously assigned to PWD will remain basically unchanged (see Organization
Chart). The allocation to GHA of personnel and assets previously shared
with PWD is expected to be completed during 1975. An additional 12,000 mi
of feeder roads previously administered by various agencies are now being
inventoried, and the results (expected during 1976) will determine appropriate
arrangements for administration of these roads. For example, it is expected
that secondary roads and high-trafficked feeder roads would be assigned to
the District Heads of GHA, while responsibility for maintenance of feeder
roads of only local importance would be redelegated to local authorities.
GHA would however assume supervision of these latter roads, including prepa-
ration of work programs, budget requirements, cost accounting, and perform-
ance standards; it would also assist in staff training, and in provision of
workshops, equipment, and funds.



- 17 -
5.05      The redelegation of certain responsibilities to local authorities
will encourage local participation and support, which can be expected to
improve under competent direction and assistance from GHA, provided it can
demonstrate that road conditions are being improved significantly. The
proposed project provides GHA with the assistance required to help achieve
the desired improvements.
Management System
5.06      The road maintenance management system was developed by the Task
Force in early 1975, tested in the Volta Region, and the results applied on
a variety of road surfaces under different climatic conditions. The redefined
work methods, productivity assumptions, and performance standards achieved
will allow effective country-wide implementation of the maintenance program.
5.07      The management system provides guidance for all levels of mainte-
nance supervisors. It includes a reporting system which will permit GHA
to relate costs to the achievement of specified maintenance objectives, to
monitor work progress and performance, and to improve budgeting and prepara-
tion of financing plans. It is planned to apply the system to all main
roads by end-1977, and to the rest of the network by end-1978.
Training
5.08      Existing training facilities consist essentially of the center at
Shai Hills, about 30 mi from Accra, which has a capacity of about 150 students,
but which is presently underutilized because of a severe shortage of equip-
ment and staff. The Task Force has determined that about 60% of GHA's present
supervisory staff need refresher courses. Training will also have to be pro-
vided for new personnel and road contractors' staff, as well as for existing
store and management personnel, equipment operators, and mechanics. Altogether,
about 2,000 people will have to be trained over the project period.
5.09      GHA is now being assisted by a CIDA-financed training advisor in
preparation of a comprehensive training program covering the period up to
mid-1979. Completion of the program is expected by September 30, 1976.
The proposed project provides additional advisory services by two training
experts, and US$200,000 for procurement of various items of equipment for the
training center. Road maintenance equipment procured for GHA under the pro-
ject is being made available for training purposes as necessary.
Equipment
5.10      PWD's equipment repair and maintenance operations were severely
handicapped by a chronic shortage of spare parts, aggravated by the fact
that at any given time at least one-third of the fleet was inoperative.
Considering the equipment expected to remain in service during the next four
years, the Task Force has assessed the need for spare parts, and recommended
allocations totalling about US$1.5 million. Although most of this will be
recurrent expenditures, the proposed Loan/Credit provides US$300,000 to help
GHA replenish its spare parts supply and carry out backlog repairs.



- 18 -
5.11      The total equipment fleet required to maintain the PWD road networ.
was estimated by the Task Force on the basis of a detailed assessment of work
requirements. The inventory of existing PWD equipment showed that only about
35% of the items would be serviceable beyond FY 1978.  The renaining needs
will have to be met from: (i) CIDA-financed equipment scheduled for deli-'
very in late 1975; (ii) GHA-financed purchases of some additional items, such
as locally manufactured trailers; and (iii) financing from the proposed Loan/
Credit in an amount of US$5.5 million for the remaining equipment required
for use on main roads (Table 8).
5.12      The proposed Loan/Credit will also finance an additional US$3.2
million worth of equipment for maintenance of feeder roads under the four-
year program. Preliminary estimates made by the Task Force indicate that
a further US$6.5 million worth of equipment will be required mainly for
feeder roads, during execution of the second phase of the eight-year mainte-
nance program. These requirements will be considered during preparation of
the next Bank Group-financed highway project.
5.13      The purchase of some items of equipment for main roads will depend
on the results of the Task Force study of the optimum labor/equipment mix
for certain operations; these results are expected in mid-1976 following
field tests using new CIDA-financed equipment. Analysis of the appropriate
mix will become a continuing responsibility for GHA management, and the
proposed project provides for execution of studies on this issue, specifically
concerning feeder road maintenance, as input to the second phase of the mainte-
nance program (para. 5.34).
5.14      GHA's workshops are fairly well established, but some improvements
and modernization are required to ensure proper equipment repair and mainte-
nance. The Crown Agents had prepared a detailed survey of workshops and
stores, which was updated by the Task Force to conform generally to GHA's
expanded requirements. GHA's detailed workshop program, including planned
workshop improvements, will be available by end-1976. The proposed project
provides for improvements to workshops, including procurement of equipment
and tools.
Government Funding
5.15      GHA will receive its funds from the Government through annual bud-
get allocations. The Task Force prepared an estimate of road maintenance
needs in 1975/76, and this provided the basis for GHA's budget (Table 4),
which appears adequate for the first year of the maintenance program. The
requested increase in maintenance allocations is largely due to price increases,
additional local cost commitments (including taxes and duties) caused by cur-
rent or planned equipment procurements, and an approximately 15% baseline
increase in the funds devoted to road maintenance.
5.16      The results of the feeder road inventory are expected by end-1976.
GHA's 1976/77 budget starts providing for maintenance of these roads based
on an analysis of operations planned for that year; a preliminary assessment



- 19 -
indicates that the budget will require increases (at 1975 price levels) in
order to allow execution of planned maintenance operations. The Government
has provided assurances that it will inform the Bank/IDA regularly about GHA's
planned road maintenance programs and the budgetary allocations required for
their implementation, and to exchange views about the programs and budgets if
the Bank/IDA so desires.
Coordination with Rural Development
5.17      On completion of the inventory of feeder roads, GHA is expected
to prepare a detailed work program for their improvement and maintenance
in coordination with other agencies, particularly those responsible for
rural development. In cases where planned rural development projects require
the improvement or increased maintenance of feeder roads, GHA will be res-
ponsible for execution of such road works; any additional funding required
for this effort will be provided by these projects, or by special budget
allocations to GHA. An example of this procedure is provided by the proposed
project for rural development in the Upper Region now being considered for
Bank/IDA financing. The Government has agreed that such road works would be
carried out under the responsibility of GHA.
Reconstruction of Achimota-Nsawam Road (16 mi)
5.18      This road forms the southernmost rural section of the Accra-Kumasi
trunk road; most of the other sections have been reconstructed in recent
years, and the section Anyinam-Kumasi (about 81 mi) is now being rehabilitated
under the First Highway Project. The horizontal alignment of the Achimota-
Nsawam road requires only improvements of some narrow curves and a railway
crossing; however, the vertical alignment of the road crosses rolling terrain,
and provides inadequate sight distance. The road width varies between 20-22
ft, and formation between 30-36 ft. Riding conditions vary considerably
on different parts of the road, a result of uneven maintenance over the
past few years. Traffic levels average about 3,500 vpd, of which about
one-third are commercial vehicles.
5.19      Economic and engineering studies were carried out in 1970/71 by
SWKP and the Economist Intelligence Unit, Ltd. (EIU, UK), and the rehabilita-
tion works recommended were included in the First Highway Project. However,
when priorities in that project were re-arranged (para. 1.03), reconstruction
of the Achimota-Nsawam road was deferred. Detailed engineering has in the
meantime been substantially completed by SWKP in cooperation with AESC.
5.20      The proposed project provides for construction of a two-lane paved
road. About 7 mi of the road will be built on a new alignment to improve
a railway crossing and avoid some built-up areas near the existing road; the
remaining 9 mi section will be constructed on an alignment parallel and close
to the existing alignment, in order to provide for eventual widening to four
lanes (para. 6.13). Design standards are shown in Table 6.



- 20 -
Strengthening of the Domestic Construction Industry
5.21      The domestic construction industry is expected to play a major
role in future efforts to preserve and improve the road network. In
particular, it is planned that periodic maintenance operations would be
executed by private domestic contractors, but their capacity and competence
would have to be strengthened appropriately. It would also be necessary to
increase domestic production of stone chippings in order to eliminate the
present bottleneck in the supply of road-building materials.
5.22      The proposed project provides assistance to domestic road contractors
through two intermediaries: (i) GHA will assist in training contractors' per-
sonnel in technical skills; and (ii) BHC will serve as the contractors' prin-
cipal commercial contact and source of financing and management assistance.
5.23      The proposed project is intended to provide a first phase of assis-
tance in strengthening the domestic construction industry. The emphasis will
be on periodic road maintenance which is a vital component of the planned
maintenance program, and which will provide an excellent opportunity for
development of the road contracting industry. Periodic maintenance involves
regravelling and resealing roads, operations which are fundamental and repeti-
tive, and well suited to allow small firms to expand or for building contrac-
tors to diversify into road contracting; also, the size of contracts could be
tailored to fit the capacity of these firms. The continuing need for periodic
maintenance will provide an assurance of work availability, and consequently
an incentive to contractors to purchase equipment and acquire the training
required for participation in the program. Finally, since GHA will be the
main employer of contractors, and since the tasks involved are fairly stan-
dardized, it will be relatively simple to monitor the progress of assistance
provided, to make adjustments to the project as required, and to develop
experience in identifying and preparing further assistance to the industry.
GHA and BHC will cooperate in designing a monitoring system, in close consul-
tation with the Bank/IDA. The same rationale as described above also applies
to the proposed assistance to the quarry industry (para. 5.30).
Role of GHA
5.24      GHA plans to execute by contract most of the periodic maintenance
required to assure continuity of work for the contracting industry. The
technical training courses for GHA maintenance personnel will be open to
contractors in order to help overcome the lack of trained personnel in the
industry, and also to prepare contractors to produce good quality work.
5.25      To facilitate execution of this project item, GHA will establish
procedures for classifying road contractors in consultation with BHC. This
will enable GHA to: (i) coordinate with BHC on standards for qualification;
(ii) match categories to the complexity of different types of contracts; and
(iii) maintain a listing of only those firms which are active and which meet
the new requirements.



- 21 -
Role of BHC
5.26      BHC will base its loans to contractors on a classification system
coordinated with GHA's. BHC will prepare full appraisal reports on contractors
applying for term-funds under the proposed project. The equipment to be
financed will include only items needed for periodic road maintenance. BHC
will also finance the purchase of spare parts for existing equipment required
to carry out road maintenance during project execution, and will continue
to provide contractors with some working capital. Finally, BHC will arrange
with suppliers for training of contractors' operators and mechanics, and for
after-sales service.
5.27      Since the contractors will mainly be undertaking work for GHA, BHC
plans to work closely with that agency in supervising work execution. GHA
will inform BHC regarding progress on road works carried out by BHC-financed
contractors.
5.28      BHC staff, strengthened by an advisor (para. 5.38), will provide
managerial and technical assistance tQ road contractors receiving term-
finance. BHC is also preparing accounting courses designed specifically for
road contractors, in cooperation with the Management Development and Produc-
tivity Institute in Accra.
5.29      Proposed Loan funds of US$6.5 million (including contingencies) will
be made available to domestic contractors with the exception of SCC and entre-
preneurs wanting to enter the road contracting industry but who have no pre-
vious experience in this field. However, such entrepreneurs will be encouraged
to hire equipment from BHC's subsidiary, Plant Pool Ltd. (see Annex 1, para. 23),
and to establish a satisfactory work record. They will then be considered for
term-financing by BHC. Government-owned SCC already has access to other fund-
ing through external sources such as USAID and the Association (para. 1.03),
and technical assistance through the International Executive Service Corps.
SCC's access to other funding and technical assistance sources, while un-
doubtedly of considerable benefit to the well-being of the Corporation, does
not in itself give SCC any undue advantage over other domestic contractors.
In any event, the proposed BHC role will make available similar assistance to
the rest pf the domestic contracting industry.
Quarry Operations
5.30      Existing quarries are working far below capacity, primarily due
to lack of spare parts and supplementary equipment. The proposed Bank
lending includes US$1.0 million (including contingencies) for improving
operations of domestically-owned quarries. The exact number of quarries to
benefit from these funds will be determined following a survey financed under
the proposed project, to be executed by the specialist in quarry operations
to be attached to BHC (para. 5.39). The present estimate is that about five
quarries would qualify.



- 22 -
Studies
5.31      The proposed project provides for execution of studies on:  (i) the
optimum level of feeder road maintenance and investment; (ii) capital/labor
requirements for feeder road maintenance; and (iii) building materials for
road construction and maintenance.
Optimum Level of Feeder Road Maintenance and Investment
5.32      The feeder road study is intended to provide planning assistance
to GHA as it assumes responsibility for the 12,000 mi network. The principal
objective of the study is to relate road requirements to agricultural and
socio-economic demand in rural areas. The outline terms of reference in
Annex 4 envision a two-phase operation over three years. The first phase
of the study will attempt to relate basic agricultural and demographic
statistics to the planned feeder road inventory, and make preliminary recom-
mendations on requirements for maintenance and rehabilitation; a second phase
will involve a more in-depth investigation of selected agricultural areas.
5.33      GHA intends to engage BRRI to execute the study, with support
provided by the Ministry of Agriculture. This arrangement is expected to
encourage development of the Institute, and to help stimulate the exchange
of information and ideas with BHC and GHA.  Moreover, BRRI has already com-
pleted other studies of feeder roads (para. 3.25), and their experience and
data base will provide useful input to the present effort.
Capital/Labor Requirements for Feeder Road Maintenance
5.34      The Task Force had identified several road maintenance activities
as being well suited to labor-intensive execution. The purpose of the pro-
posed follow-up study is to monitor the labor/equipment mix and the relative
productivity of certain maintenance methods applied to feeder roads. Emphasis
will be placed on determining the practical and economic level of using
labor-intensive methods. Maximum use will be made of relevant studies pre-
pared by the Bank Group and other agencies drawing on experience in countries
with similar conditions. GHA has indicated that it intends to engage BRRI
for execution of this study.
Road-Building Materials
5.35      The proposed project includes a study to investigate the quantity
and quality of laterite available in the country (Annex 3, para. 16), and to
determine the cost and viability of alternative methods of pavement construc-
tion and maintenance, such as soil stabilization. The surveys are planned
for execution by a team of four or five experts in fields such as soils and
materials, road maintenance, and economics. The experts will be expected to
develop a material resource inventory, and to recommend to GHA appropriate
policies to be followed in making the most economic use of laterite and other
materials for executing road works.



- 23 -
Technical Assistance
5.36      The project includes technical assistance to GHA for execution of
road maintenance and for highway planning, and to BHC for road contractors
and quarry owners. Regarding maintenance, the Task Force which designed
the management system included advisors provided by consultants RJA. Since
the RJA team has already established a good working relationship with GHA
staff, GHA is planning to retain these consultants for implementation of
its maintenance program until mid-1977, with some additional services in
1977/78. The proposed project therefore finances about 120 man-months of
additional consulting services for the team leader, one specialist for equip-
ment, two for road maintenance, one for accounting, and three for training.
Although designated as advisors, the team members will be actively involved
in physical implementation of the maintenance program.
5.37      Highway planning will be strengthened by the provision of technical
assistance to GHA's Planning Division (para. 3.11). The greatest need is
for a highway planner/transport economist to help prepare an investment plan
for highway development, evaluate project proposals, and improve the system
of highway statistics. ODM has agreed to finance these services starting in
1976, and the Government has confirmed this understanding.
5.38      The advisor to road contractors will work in collaboration with BHC
for two years in the first instance, with a possible one-year extension. His
primary tasks will be to train BHC staff by providing general advice on the
preparation of bids for road maintenance contracts, and on identifying bottle-
necks to efficient execution of road maintenance operations and determining
how best to remove them. The expert will also advise BHC on criteria for
selecting contractors for sub-loans under the proposed project, and will
assist BHC staff in appraising and supervising loans, and in providing technical
assistance to borrowers in the contracting industry.
5.39      The advisor on stone quarries will be attached to BHC for about
nine months. His principal function will be to conduct a survey of existing
domestically-owned stone quarries, identify the cost of increasing the output
of these quarries and other obstacles to improving operations, and prepare
solutions to these problems in light of the needs of the planned road mainte-
nance program. The expert will be expected to advise BHC on criteria for
selecting quarries to be provided with sub-loans under the proposed project,
and on the supervision of such loans. The advisor will also provide some
technical assistance to these quarries.
B.   Cost Estimates
5.40      The capital costs of the project (including contingencies) are
estimated at about US$35.8 million equivalent, of which about US$28.7 million
in foreign costs and about US$7.1 million equivalent in local costs (including
about US$4.1 million equivalent in taxes and duties). Details of cost esti-
mates are shown in Table 9 and summarized on the following page:



- 24 -
Foreign
Cedis '000                 uS$  000     -  Component
A. GHA Part                         Local   Foreign    Total      Local Foreign  Total    %
1. Procurement of equipment
and spare parts for road
maintenance                    211     10,350    10,561       183   9,000   9,183    98
2. Workshop improvements and
procurement of equipment       230        943      1,173      200      820   1,020    80
3. Training center improvements
and equipment procurement      124        230        354      107      200     307    80
4. Reconstruction of Achimota-
Nsawam road                  3,048      5,290      8,338    2,651   4,600   7,251    63
5. Consulting services            807      1,334      2,141      702   1,160   1,862    62
6. Contingencies (all items)
a) quantities (10%)            441      1,815      2,256      384   1,578   1,962    80
b) prices                               3,613      4,817    1 047   3,142   4,189    75
Subtotal          1,645       5,428     7,073   1T,4      4,720   6,151    77
Total of Category A          6,065     23,575    29,640    5,274  20,500  25,774    80
B. BHC Part
1. Procurement of equipment
and spares by
a) road contractors          1,363      6,210      7,573    1,185   5,400   6,585    82
b) quarry owners               202        920      1,122      176      800     976    82
Subtotal          1,565       7,130     8,695    1,361   6,200   7,561    82
2. Price escalation contingency  328       1,495      1,823      285   1,300   1,585    82
Total of Category B          1,893      8,625    10,518    1,646   7,500   9,1146    82
Total of Categories A + B   7,958      32,200   140,158    6,920  28,000  314,920    80
C. Technical Assistance Financed
by External Sources other than Bank/IDA
1. Advisors to BHC (UNDP)         124         281       405      108      244     352    69
2. Planning advisor to GHA (ODM)  50         138        188       43      120     163    63
3. Maintenance advisors to
GHA (CIDA)                      61        355        416       53      309     362    85
Total of Category C            235        744      1,009      2014    673      877    77
GRAND TOTAL                  8,193     32,974    41,167    7,124  28,673  35,797    80
(rounded)                                                  (7,100) (28,700) (35,800)



- 25 -
5.41      Costs for equipment and spare parts are based on consultants'
estimates, taking into account bids received in early 1975 for CIDA-financed
purchases. Costs for reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam road have been
estimated by consultants, based on substantially completed detailed engineer-
ing and updated bid prices received from international contractors in August
1975 for similar works. Cost estimates for consulting services take into
consideration current unit prices of ongoing assignments. A 10% physical
contingency has been provided to allow for possible quantity variations.
Price contingencies for the foreign exchange component have been calculated
to take account of escalation rates as follows: (i) for the construction
item, 4% in the last quarter of 1975, 14% in 1976, and 12% p.a. thereafter;
and (ii) for procurement of equipment and spare parts and for other project
items, 3% in the last quarter of 1975, and 12% p.a. thereafter. Price
contingencies for local costs which are not determined as a percentage of
foreign cost (such as import duty relates to the cif cost of an imported item)
are assumed for all project components as follows: 5% for the last quarter
of 1975, 15% in 1976, 14% in 1977, 12% in 1978, and 10% p.a. thereafter.
C.   Execution
5.42      GHA will have overall responsibility for execution of the proposed
project, including coordination with BHC. BHC will be directly responsible
for those project items to be implemented with Loan funds on-lent to domestic
road contractors and quarry owners.
5.43      The Bank/IDA concurs with GHA's intention to engage BRRI in early
1976 to execute the two feeder road studies. GHA also intends to retain
consultants RJA for the road maintenance program, and SWKP for construction
supervision. Both these consultants are already engaged in work for GHA
with counterpart participation, and their assignments will continue provided
agreement is reached on the terms and conditions for these additional
services.
5.44      GHA will procure its maintenance and workshop equipment (including
spare parts) on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines, with due regard to the requirements of standard-
ization. Separate contracts will be prepared for each type, or each group
of equipment; the first bids are expected to be received by March 1976. The
following items will be exempted from international competitive bidding:
(i) spare parts for equipment already in GHA's possession may be procured
on the basis of quotations obtained from agents in Ghana of foreign suppliers,
up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000 equivalent; and (ii) special equip-
ment items estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent each, for GHA's
training center and workshops, may be procured on the basis of offers for
similar equipment from at least two suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000 equivalent. Suppliers will be required to provide an adequate
after-sales service in the Accra area.



- 26 -
5.45      Bidding documents for reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam road
are being prepared by SW4KP assisted by AESC, on the basis of completed
detailed engineering design. The construction contract will be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Work is scheduled to commence in mid-1976, and will take about
two years to complete.
5.46      Implementation of the road maintenance program is not expected to
generate any significant increase in employment, although some additional
equipment operators, mechanics, foremen, and technicians will be recruited
by road contractors. However, the GHA maintenance force (numbering about
7,000) is expected to be utilized more efficiently than at present, and
will receive additional training. Reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam road
will employ a total of about 800 workers over two years. The balance in the
use of equipment and labor has been reviewed with GHA and found generally
reasonable; further studies of the labor/equipment mix will be carried out
under the proposed project.
5.47      For procurement of equipment and spares under the BHC part of the
project, sub-borrowers will be required, where practicable, to obtain quo-
tations from at least three suppliers for equipment and from the relevant
local suppliers for spare parts; quotations will have to be checked and
approved by BHC. The Bank will approve procurement of these items when sub-
projects are authorized.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
5.48      The proposed Loan/Credit of US$28 million will finance most of
the foreign exchange cost of the project (estimated at about US$28.7 million
and representing about 90% of total project costs net of taxes). The remain-
ing foreign costs of about US$700,000 will be provided as follows: US$310,000
by CIDA for consulting services, US$240,000 by UNDP for expert services, and
US$120,000 by ODM for a highway planner/transport economist. The Government
has confirmed that it will contribute the local component of project costs,
about US$3.1 million equivalent excluding taxes; these funds will be made
available in addition to the GHA budget for recurrent expenditures.   Retro-
active financing in the amount of US$50,000 will be provided to cover the
foreign exchange cost of services for a training specialist under the
maintenance program.
5.49      The Government will on-lend US$7.5 million of the Loan funds to BHC
at an interest rate of 10% p.a. The Government will assume the foreign ex-
change risk under the proposed lending. BHC will in turn lend these funds
to the domestic construction industry at an interest rate of 15% p.a. under
hire-purchase arrangements (US$6.5 million for contractors, road maintenance
equipment and spare parts, and US$1.0 million for equipment and spare parts
for existing quarries, including contingencies). In exceptional cases where
hire-purchase arrangements are not used, the interest rate to be charged will
be determined by BHC in consultation with the Government and with approval of
the Bank, but it will in any case not be less than 13-1/2%.



- 27 -
5.50      Equipment will be financed on a hire-purchase basis in accordance
with the relevant Decree issued by the Government. BHC's interest margin
includes 3% to cover administrative expenses, earnings, and normal risk, and
2% to cover the special risk involved in dealing with movable equipment which
will be used on roads throughout the country. Since it is difficult at this
time to assess the appropriateness of the 2% special risk spread, BHC will
be expected to keep separate accounts for this lending activity, and to
monitor the experience gained.
5.51      The initial repayment schedule for funds passed on by the Government
to BHC will be 25 years, including five years of grace. BHC will roll over
the funds to foster the objectives of the project, namely promotion of the
domestic construction industry. The amortization period of medium-term sub-
loans for new equipment will be based on contractors' ability to repay, but
will not exceed the estimated 5-10 year economic life of the equipment, in-
cluding a grace period of 1-2 years; the amortization period of medium-term
sub-loans for spare parts and replacement items will be about 2-3 years,
including a grace period of about one year. These same principles will apply
in the case of quarry owners, with the amortization period expected to be
2-6 years, including a grace period of 1-2 years.
5.52      Of the US$5.4 million of Loan funds earmarked for road contractors,
about US$300,000 will probably be used for spare parts for existing equipment,
involving some small sub-loans of not less than about US$4,000.   Sub-loans
for new equipment purchases will range from about US$50,000 to as much as
US$500,000, with an average size of about US$200,000. The US$1.0 million
allocated for existing quarries will probably benefit about five operators,
with the sub-loans ranging in size from US$50,000 to US$300,000, and averaging
about US$200,000. Sub-loans of less than US$200,000 (in total not exceeding
US$2 million), will not require Bank approval prior to commitment by BHC.
Disbursements
5.53      Loan/Credit proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(i)  100% of the c.i.f. costs of equipment, spare parts, and tools
procured by GHA and through BHC;
(ii)  65% of total expenditures for reconstruction work, representing
the estimated foreign exchange cost of this item; and
(iii)  100% of the foreign expenditures for consulting services and
technical assistance.
The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed Loan/Credit is
shown in Table 10. Any funds remaining in the Loan/Credit Account on com-
pletion of the proposed project will be used to finance items related to
the project, or to the next phase of the road maintenance program as agreed
between the Government and the Bank/IDA.



- 28 -
6. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
6.01      Ghana's transport system plays a significant role in the development
of the economy, particularly in facilitating and encouraging the evacuation
of cocoa, timber, bauxite, and other products. The primary purpose of the
proposed project is to protect past investments in the highway system by
adequately maintaining primary, secondary and essential feeder roads. Road
maintenance has frequently been deferred in recent years, leading to an
uneconomic increase in the use of scarce foreign exchange resources to pay
for the high cost of operating vehicles on poorly maintained roads.
6.02      The economic return from investments in road maintenance and road
reconstruction is conservatively quantified on the basis of vehicle operating
cost savings. Benefits from deferring road reconstruction, stimulating addi-
tional production, time savings, and accident reduction, are not included
in the calculation. Important institution-building benefits are also omitted
from the analysis, including strengthening GHA, assisting the development
of the domestic construction industry, and promoting the development of BHC.
6.03      Costs and benefits are calculated in cedis, net of taxes and other
transfer payments, at January 1975 prices.  A shadow exchange rate of 01.50
$1.00 was applied to reflect the scarcity of foreign exchange in Ghana, con-
sistent with other recent Bank Group analyses. The social cost of unskilled
labor is shadow-priced at ¢1/man-day (40% of the minimum Government wage),
in view of rural underemployment and the high rate of urban unemployment.
The opportunity cost of capital is estimated to be about 10% p.a., and
charged against vehicle and other capital which is recovered through depreci-
ation charges.
Vehicle Operating Costs
6.04      Vehicle operating costs utilized in the analysis were estimated by
consultants SWKP/EIU in January 1975. Typical minimum economic operating
costs on good running surfaces are estimated to range between 18.5 pesewas
($0.161) per mile for a Peugeot 404, and 81.1 pesewas ($0.705) per mile for
a 16-ton truck, as shown in Table 11. Operating costs on poor surfaces range
from 70-110% higher, consistent with relationships found in other recent
studies.
Traffic
6.05      Traffic on roads to be included in the maintenance program was
estimated on the basis of recent counts in the case of roads maintained by
PWD, and broad estimates in the case of feeder roads. Traffic on the



- 29 -
Achimota-Nsawam road to be reconstructed under the project was estimated from
a seven-day classified count by consultants SWKP/EIU in November 1974, and
totals about 3,300 vpd, of which about 800 are medium or heavy vehicles.
6.06      Traffic growth rates were forecast on the basis of recent trends
in traffic and economic indicators, and the anticipated growth of GNP. The
consumption of motor fuel has recently been growing about 6% p.a. (Table 12),
while available statistics on vehicle registrations and traffic counts
suggest a similar or slightly higher growth rate. GNP increased on average
3.6% p.a. over 1965-72, and was most recently estimated at 6.5% in 1974. The
latter figure is consistent with Bank Group forecasts of 5.5% p.a. growth
during 1974-79, which could imply a traffic growth rate of around 8% p.a.
during the same period, based on past relationships. However, recent
economic growth has been hampered by serious economic problems, including
(i) a deterioration of the balance of payments; (ii) an inflation rate of
about 18% in 1974; and (iii) difficulty in enforcing the import-licensing
system. It is therefore likely that the growth of economic activity and of
traffic will be somewhat lower in the near future. Consultants SWKP/EIU have
forecast traffic growth rates averaging about 4% p.a. through 1978, and 6%
p.a. thereafter. These projections have been adopted as reasonably conserva-
tive for purposes of the present analysis.
B.   Maintenance Program
6.07      The annual costs and benefits of the program were calculated as a
basis for (i) selecting priority roads to be included in the first phase of
the program proposed for financing under the project; and (ii) verifying that
improved maintenance is justified on all the roads to be eventually included
in the program. The Task Force initially recommended appropriate maintenance
standards for eight categories of surfaced and unsurfaced roads in three
geographic/climatic zones, which were defined in terms of traffic carried,
and the cost of maintenance. Annual costs consist of the incremental cost
of improved maintenance including equipment depreciation and interest, while
benefits consist of vehicle operating cost savings. Incremental economic
maintenance costs range from 0300-2,600 (US$260-2,260) per mile p.a., while
corresponding benefits range from 0700-18,800 (US$610-16,350) per mile p.a.,
as shown in Table 13. The calculations are based on the vehicle operating
costs given in Table 11, and the vehicle composition and vehicle speed esti-
mates shown in Table 14. Benefit/cost ratios range from a high of 8.3:1 to
a low of 1:1 in minor instances, a preliminary indication that improving
maintenance is justified on each of the road categories to be included in
the program. Roads on which maintenance is to be improved under the proposed
project include all main roads plus high-priority feeder roads, the latter
generally including those carrying more than 25 vpd. The priorities and
composition of the maintenance program will be refined during execution of
the first phase of the program.
6.08      The economic return from the first phase of the maintenance program
was calculated by relating the cost of equipment and other project inputs to
the corresponding road improvements brought about during the economic life
of the equipment (estimated to average eight years). Project costs include



- 30 -
the equipment, spare parts, and related technical assistance financed under
the project; maintenance equipment financed by CIDA; and additional recurrent
expenditures for road maintenance by GHA. The Task Force estimates that
application of the levels of maintenance proposed for the project will
eliminate backlog maintenance, and will be sufficient to bring roads presently
in poor condition up to good condition in five years, and roads presently in
average condition up to good condition in two years. Adequate maintenance
will be continued on the approximately 2,600 mi of roads presently in good
condition, and additional roads will be added to the program on a priority
basis as GHA's capacity increases. On the basis of the above assumption, the
economic return of the maintenance component of the project is estimated at
about 54%, with a benefit/cost ratio of about 2.5:1 discounting at 1Q% p.a.
(Table 15).
Sensitivity Analysis
6.09      The various components of the economic evaluation have not been
forecast with equal reliability. The greatest risks are that: (a) vehicle
operating cost savings and/or traffic growth have been over-estimated; or
that (b) the impact of inflation will be greater on project costs than on
project benefits. However, it is noted that the economic return will
remain greater than 10% (the estimated opportunity cost of capital), if:
(a) project costs increase 140%; or (b) project benefits decrease 55%;
or (c) project costs increase 40% at the same time as benefits decrease
40%. The rate of return is therefore sufficiently high, based on vehicle
operating cost savings only, to absorb any reasonably probable combination
of adverse circumstances.
C.   Strengthening of the Domestic Construction Industry
6.10      The financing of equipment for private domestic road contractors
and for quarry operators is a necessary input for executing the road mainte-
nance program, and is also intended to provide institution-building assis-
tance to the domestic construction industry and to BHC, consistent with
Government objectives. There is presently insufficient capacity within the
road contracting and quarry industries to execute their share of the mainte-
nance program, which includes about half of the resealing and most of the
regravelling work (para. 3.26). The lack of equipment and spare parts is
identified as the major bottleneck to increasing the capacity of domestic
contractors and quarry operators. The project therefore provides for US$7.5
million worth of equipment and spare parts for implementing the first phase
of the program, which is less than half the amount required for execution
of the entire program. Requirements for the second phase operations will be
considered during preparation of the next Bank/IDA highway operation. The
equipment is not expected to be used exclusively for road maintenance;
however, to the extent that the cost of this equipment is recovered through
depreciation charges included in contract payments, its cost has been included
in the economic evaluation of the maintenance program, and its purchase is
economically justified.



- 31 -
D.   Reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam Road (16 mi)
6.11      This road is the southernmost rural link of the Accra-Kumasi
road, carrying agricultural and manufactured products, petroleum, and
passengers in interregional traffic. Consultants SWKP/EIU estimate that
about 73% of traffic on the link is through-traffic, based on a one-week
origin/destination survey.
6.12      Alternative levels of road rehabilitation were compared, on the
basis of net present value, discounting at 10% and 15%. The recommended
solution consists of reconstruction to the standards proposed (Table 6),
while the "without" alternative consists of recurrent maintenance, and
frequent  overlays (single surface dressings) for the existing pavement.
The streams of anticipated expenditures for reconstruction, recurrent mainten-
ance, overlays, and vehicle operation for the two alternatives are shown in
Table 16. The economic return from the proposed reconstruction works is
estimated at about 14%. A sensitivity analysis indicates that a 43% increase
in costs or a 30% decrease in benefits would reduce the economic return to
about 10%.
6.13      The proposed works include constructing a two-lane road on a new
alignment for about 7 mi to bypass built-up areas, and for about 9 mi on
an alignment parallel and close to the existing road, at an additional
financial cost of about 0 789,000. Construction on a parallel alignment for
10 mi is proposed in order to (i) avoid the provision of a temporary roadway
during the construction period; (ii) provide a service road in densely popu-
lated areas; and (iii) secure the right-of-way for future widening to a
four-lane highway. The two additional lanes are likely to be required in
about 10 years when traffic is forecast to be about 7,000 vpd, including 30%
medium and heavy vehicles. The additional costs of construction on a parallel
alignment include (i) the cost of providing earthworks, drainage, and ancillary
works now rather than later; and (ii) the cost of minimum maintenance for
the drainage system of the existing roadway, and where required, of the roadway
itself, to serve local traffic. Benefits from constructing on parallel align-
ment include: (i) vehicle operating cost savings during the period of con-
struction, since traffic would not be interrupted; and (ii) the residual value
of the drainage structures and embankment from the existing road (not includ-
ing its land value) for purposes of widening the road to four lanes. The net
benefit of acquiring land for the second carriageway now rather than later
is omitted from the calculation; it is estimated that the disbenefit of paying
for the land now will be more than offset by increases (in constant dollars)
in the value of the land, due to changes in land use resulting from the road's
proximity to the suburban fringe of Accra, and the possible impact of recon-
struction. Benefits from using the existing road as a service road (after
construction) are also omitted from the calculation. The estimated costs and
benefits of constructing on parallel rather than on the existing alignment are
shown in Table 17; the incremental economic return is estimated to be 24%,
and the arrangement is therefore justified.



- 32 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations on the proposed Loan/Credit, agreements were
reached with the Government and BHC on the following principal issues:
(a) The Government:
(i) that Government transport experts will meet from time
to time with Bank staff to discuss various issues in
the transport sector, and to review the progress made
and experience gained in moving toward their solution
(para. 2.18);
(ii) that starting in FY 1976/77, GHA will receive all funds
for recurrent expenditures allocated by the Government
budget for public roads (para. 3.16); also, the Govern-
ment confirmed that it will keep the Bank/IDA informed
during preparation of the FY 1976/77 and subsequent
budgets for GHA, and will exchange views thereon if the
Bank/IDA so desires (para. 5.16);
(iii)  that road works for the rural development project being
considered for Bank/IDA financing will be carried out
under the responsibility of GHA (para. 5.17); and
(iv) the Government will finance the local component of project
costs, in addition to the GHA budget for recurrent expendi-
tures (para. 5.48).
(b) BHC:
(i) BHC has confirmed that it will adopt a policy that its
financing of any single commercial or industrial project
will not exceed 25% of the current value of the consolidated
capital and surplus of BHC and all its subsidiaries, or the
equivalent of 90% of the aggregate of the current gross
value of the fixed assets of such enterprise and the estimated
cost to such enterprise of the fixed assets to be financed
out of the proceeds of such loan or investment or covered
by such guarantee (para. 4.06);
(ii) BHC shall cause any enterprise in which it owns more
than 50% of the current value of the capital and surplus
to employ experienced and qualified management
(para. 4.06); and
(iii) BHC agreed to maintain a debt/equity ratio which is
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 4.06).



- 33 -
(c) The Government and BHC:
(i) details of all arrangements for strengthening the domestic
construction industry (paras. 5.21-5.30);
(ii) GHA will have overall responsibility for execution of the
proposed project, including coordination with BHC; BHC
will be directly responsible for project items to be
implemented with Loan funds on-lent to domestic road
contractors and quarry owners (para. 5.42);
(iii) arrangements for equipment procurement by GHA and BHC
(paras. 5.44 and 5.47); and
(iv) arrangements for on-lending of Loan proceeds by the
Government to BHC, and by BHC to domestic road
contractors and quarry owners (para. 5.49 - 5.52).
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for lending to the Government of
Ghana in the form of a Loan of US$18 million and a Credit of US$10 million.
An appropriate Loan term would be 25 years, including 5 years of grace; the
Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
December 2, 1975






GHANA                             TABIE 1
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Capital Investments in the Transport Sector, 1969-73
(Cedis Millions)
Fiscal
Year            Source          Road      Rail     Ports       Air       TOTAL
1969       Government            7.90     2.03     0.18       0.73       1o.84
Foreign                 -        -       -           -
1970       Government           12.40     1.91     0.63       o.59       15.53
Foreign               1.50       -       -          -         1.50
1971       Government           14.6o     1.59     0.01       2.52       18.72
Foreign               0.50       -       -          -         0.50
1972       Government           16.00     0.16     0.01       2.75       18.92
Foreign                -         -       -          -          _
1973       Government           16.50     0.14     0.01       1.65       18.30
Foreign                -         -       -          -           _
TOTAL      Government           67.40     5.83      0.84      8.24       82.31
1969-73     Foreign               2.00        -       -          -         2.00
TOTAL                69.40     5.83     o.84       8. 2       84.31
Source: Ministry of Economic Planning
July 1975.



TABLE 2
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Composition of the Road Network
(miles)
Roads Under the Jurisdiction of the Former FWD
Bitumen                Gravel
Roads                  Roads             Total
1969             2,333                   3,718            6,051
1970             2,418                   3,629            6,047
1971             2,511                   3,579            6,090
1972             2,744                   3,618            6,362
1973             2,859                   3,562            6,421
1974             2,967                   3,829            6,796
Annual Compound
Growth Rate(%)
1969-74          4.9                     0.6              2.4
Total Netwrk of Public Roads
Classification                Bitumen        Gravel       Earth          Total
Former PWD Roads
Itero ban                     2,632          3,754          -            6,386
T o wni/-                       335             75          -               410
Subtotal              2,967          3,829                       6,796
Additional Roads                                       2/
Maintained by PWD                                  700          -              700
Feeder Roads                      n.a.3t         n.a.3/      n.a.3/        12,00C
Total (rounded)                                                        19,500
say 20,000
1/ Includes the portion of interurban roads within urban areas.
7/ Estimates.
3/ n.a. = not available
Source: GHA
September 1975



GHANA
TABLE 3
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Vehicle Fleet and New Vehicle Registrations, 1965-74
Trucks
Cars       and Buses        TOTAL
1965       Vehicle Fleet 1/         27,382       19,851            47,233
New Registrations         2,676        2,103             4.,779
1966       Vehicle Fleet            26,250       16,6d8            42,938
New Registrations         3,559        2,91l             6,4'1
1967       Vehicle Fleet            27,551        20,459           48,010
New Registrations         3,345        2,'l42           6,087
1968       Vehicle Fleet            29,450       19,930            49,380
New Registrations         3,731        3,054            6,785
1969       Vehicle Fleet            341,22       22,214            56,436
New Registrations         5,267        3,o53            8,620
1970       Vehicle Fleet            42,094       26,628            68,722
New Registrations         6,657        3,2b2            9,939
1971       New Registrations         7,345        5,698            1j,04)
1972       New Registrations         4,25j        4,159            8,391
1973       New Registrations         4,251        3,433             7,684
1974       New Registrations         6,297        5,225           11,522
1/ The number of vehicles (excluding motor-cycles) with valid licenses
at the end of the calendar year.
2/ Including public conveyance vehicles, goods, special purpose, and
public service vehicles.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.
July 1975.



GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
HIH Budgeted and Actual Expenditures on Roads, 1970-76
(cedls million)
1970/71    1971/72          1972/73            1973/74     1974h/5    1975/76
Item                                 Budgeted    Budgeted    Euadgeted   Actual    Badgeted    Budgeted    Badgeted
Construction, Rehabilitation, and
Improvement of Roads and Bridges         15.0       20.0         18.7     11.6         15.6        22.5         18.1-1/
Maintenance                              13.9        16.2        14.4     13.2         14.1        20.7          32.7
Other 2                                   1.5         3.4         0.6     n.a.          2.8         3.4           3.5
-TOTAL                                    30.4       39.6         33.7    n.a.          32.5        h6.6         54.3
NOTE:  Ad&tinistration and other overhead accounts nave beeri allocated amcng the above three categories.
1/Includes road.rehabilitation undertaken under the First Highway Project.
2/Includes ferry services, toll facility operations, and other miscellaneous activities.
Source: GHA.
November 1975



GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                          TABLE 5
Estimated Revenues from Road Users, 1967-72
(Cedis Thousands)
Source                                  1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71  1971/72Y
Gasoline      - Import Duty             10,923    11,052    11,833    13,368   18,592
- Sales Tax                2,364      2,398     2,547      2,946    4,017
Diesel Oil   - Import Duty               5,408      5,610     5,969      5,221    7,269
- Sales Tax                  812        793       760        828      928
Lubricants   - Import Duty                  68         91       127         76      214
- Sales Tax                   14         25        35         23       76
Vehicles & Spares- Import Duty           2,566      3,246     3,675      9,551    4,186
-  Sales Tax             773        859       682        941      548
- Purchase Tax         2,425     2,835      3,684      5,851    6,215
Tyres        - Surcharge                   -          -         -           21        1
- Import Duty                860     1,532      1,033        376      349
- Sales Tax                  388        759       506        183      159
Vehicle & Drivers'Licenses               4,967      5,oocZ!   5,ooo2/    5,00G2/ 5,0002/
Tolls'                                     569        397       500oo      5001/    50oo/
TOTAL (rounded)              32,100    34.600    36.400    44,900   48,100
l/Last FY of statistical records available
2/Order of magnitude estimate
Source: GHA
July 1975.



GHANA                        TABLE 6
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design-Standards for Roads
A. Basic Design Standards for Roads
(a) Related to Road Classification
Main
Category of Road          Primary Road    Secondary Road        Feeder Road
Right-of-Way Width (Ft.)          200              150                  100
Design Speed in Flat Terrain
(mi/h)      60-70            50-60                30-40
(b) Related to Traffic Volume
ADT (vpd)                 2,000              400                  100
Roadway Width (Ft)                 40               34                   32
Pavement Width (Ft)                24               22                   -
Surface Type                   2-coat           2-coat                 gravel
bitumen         bitumen
B.  Reconstruction of the Achimota-Nsawam Road
1. Width of Right-of-Way
(a)  normal                             200 ft
(b)  exceptional minimum                120 ft
2.  Design Speed                                70 mi/h
3. Minimum Stopping Sight Distance             600 ft
4.  Minimum Passing Sight Distance           1,500 ft
5.  Maximum Gradient                            5%
6.  Pavement Width                              24 ft
7.  Shoulder Width on each side                 10 ft
8.  Wearing Course                               2" Asphalt Concrete
Source: GHA
October 1975



TABLE 7
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Expenditures by PWD on Road Contracts, 1969-74
(cedis millions)
19b69    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
A. Domestic Contractors
State Construction
Corporation                  3.7     4.1      4.4     4.3     3.5      1.7
Private firms                0.8     0.3      0.8     1.9     3.4      3.0
1/    .7  47    7    Z    679   7
B. Foreign Contractors-
One firm based in Ghana      2.2     2.7      2.1     2.0     2.4      1.3
One firm based outside         -     1.2      1.3      -       -        -
Ghana2/              2.2     3.9     3.4      d.O     2.4      1.3
TOTAL            6.1      8.3     8.6      8.2     9.3     6.0
Participation of private
domestic contractors compared
with total expenditures          12%       4%      9%     23%       36%     50%
1/ According to majority ownership.
2/ International contractor.
Source:   SWEP and mission estimates.
September 1975



TABLE 8
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured with Bank/IDA Funds
A. For maintenance of Main Roads
Item!/                                 Number Required-/
Dump Trucks                                       37
Graders                                           27 (9)
Tractors                                          30 (3)
Bitumen Distributors                               1
Water Tankers                                     14
Bulldozers                                         7 (2)
Loaders                                            7 (2)
Semi Tanker Trailers                               5
(For Bitumen)
B. For maintenance of Feeder Roads
Itemlr/                               Number Requiredl/
Graders                                           46
Tractor/Trailers                                 107
Bulldozers                                         3
1/Subject to change as work program is refined; figures in parentheses
indicate equipment purchases subject to confirmation by further labor/
equipment studies. Spare parts amounting to about 10% of equipment value
would be delivered with the equipment, and additional spare parts (also
about 10% of equipment value) shipped later.
Source: GHA
September 1975



TABLE 9
SEMND HICRWAY PROJECT
Project Cot Estimates
Foreign Component
Costs in Cedis 1,000                                    Costs in US$1,000                   as % of Total Cost
IncludingM fldiU8
A. GHA Port of Project                                Taxes, Duties    Other Local       Foreign          Total           Local        Foreign        Total            Taxes         Taxes
1. Procurement for Road Maintenance
a. Equipment for Main Roads                             -               129            6,325          6,454             112          5,500       5,612                           98
b. Equipment for Feeder Roads                           -                75            3,680          3,755              65          3,200       3,265                           98
c.  Spare Parts for Existing Equipment                  -                 7              345            352               6            300          06                           98
Sub-total - Item  (1)                               -               211           150                               13          90           9,103                           98
2. Workshop Improvements and Procurement
of Equioment
a. Equipment                                            -                20              943            963              17            820          837                          98
b.  Improvements                                        -               210                0            210             183              0          183                           O
Sub-total - Item  (2)                               -               230              9V3         1,173              2             880
3.  Training Center Improvements and Procurement
of Teaching Equipmwt
a.  Equipment                                           -                 4              230            234               3            200          203                          98
b.  Improvement                                         -               120                0            120             104              0          104                           0
Sub-total - Item (3)                                -               E12              230           1M R07                          200         357                           65
4. Reconstruction of Achiaota-RaawsN Road
a.  Civil Works                                      1,850              998            5,290          8,y38           2,477          4,600       7,077             65            84
b.  Land Acquisition                                    -               200              -              200             174            -            174              0            0
hub-total - Ttem (l)                                              1,108            5,20           8,338           2640                       7,251             63            82
5. Consulting Services and Technical Aseistance
a.  Road Maintenance (120 man months)                  189              132              747          1,o68             279            65C         929             70           85
h.  Scoervinion of Reconstruction 'W.orks               71              256              219            546             285            190          475            40            46
c. Studies for,
(i)  Feeder Road Investtent                         10               34              1o4           L48              39             90          129             70            75
(ii)  Labor 2q-ipmemt Mix in Feeder
Road Maintenance                               12               38              115           165              43            100          143             70            75
(iii)  Road Building Materials (24 man months)        26               39              149            214              56           130          186             70            80
Sub-total - Item (5)                                                                ,33           2,141             702         125          1,862      62                   73
6. Co-tingenica (all itmas)
a.  Quantities (10S)                                   215              226            1,815          2,256             384          1,578       1,962            3dJ            89
t. Price Escalation (see para. 5.41)                   516              688            3 613          4, 817          1 ,47          3 142       4 189             75            dil
Sub-total - Item (6)                               731              91             5,73           7,C73          1              4,720                          77            86
Total Category (A)                                   2,889            3,176           23,575         29,640           5,274         20,500      25,774             80            88
B.  EEC Part of Projoct
1. Procureoe,,t of Equipment and Spare Parts by:
a.  Road Czntractors                                 1,211              152            6,210          7,573           1,185          5,400       6,585              82           .8
b.  Quarry Oanero                                      180               22              920          1 122             176            800         976             82            98
Sub-total - Item  1)                             1' ,39     1         7            7,130            31,65                       6,200        7,561             82            93
2.  Price Escalation Contingency                          2?2                36            1,495          1,823             285          1,300        1,585            82            98
Total Zategory 'B)                                   i,68j              210            6,625    10,518    1,646                      756500      v146              932           98
Total of Categories A and B                          43,202                                            ),5d           6,920         28,00       34,Y20             80              I
Z.  Tecocc  inonAs.ita.ce by mxt-rnla inurceS other than Bank/IDA
1.  2NDP to Road Contractors (36 man rontos)               63                35              218            316              85            189          274             69            86
2.  UNDP to Quarry o-ners (9 man moths)                    18                 8               6              8                                           78             7D           8Y
Sub-total Uh'lP A:sistance             3'                                              l l   ;        5             18            24           3m              69            87
3. ODM Tech. Assiostnce - Advisor to Planning
Livision (24 man months)                               22                28              138            188              43            120         163             63            71L
i.  CIDA Tech. Assiotance  (63 man montho)                  0                61              355            416              5'            309          362           e9             85
Total Category (C)                                    103               132              7'i          1,009             204            673          877             77           85
G099D TOTAL                      4,675             3,518           32,974        41,167            7,124        28,673       35,797             so            9)
usouce: GA a-d misoi-o estimates
September 1975



TABLE 10
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$' 000)
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                C.wulative Disbursements at End of Quarter
and Quarter ending
GHA          BHC             TOTAL
1975/76
March 31, 1976                         500           500            1,000
June 30, 1976                        5,000           900           5,900
1976/77
September 30, 1976                   7,000        1,500            8,500
December 31, 1976                   10,700         2,200           12,900
March 31, 1977                      12,500         2,900           15,400
June 30, 1977                       13,100        3,700            16,800
-1977/78
September 30, 1977                  14,000        4,600           18,600
December 31, 1977                   1h,800        5,200           20,000
March 31, 1978                      16,000         6,000           22,000
June 30, 1978                       16,700        6,500           23,200
1978/79
September 30, 1978                  17,200         6,800          24,000
December 31, 1978                   18,100         7,300          25,400
March 31, 1979                      19,000         7,400          26,400
June 30, 1979                      19,700          7,500          27,200
1979/80
September 30, 1979                 20,100          7,500          27,600
December 31, 1979                  20,500          7,500          28,000
NOTES: Estimated Project Completion Date: June 30, 1979
Proposed Closing Date of Loan/Credit: December 31, 1980.
Credit fund should be fully disbursed before Loan proceeds are utilized.
Source: Mission estimates.
November 1975



GHANA
TABLE 11
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
RepresentEtive Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Pesewas per mile at January 1975 prices)
Average
Automobile Speed       Automobile      Medium Truck           Medium Bus         %Heavy Truck
(miles/hour)        (Peugeot 404)    (2-axle, 6-ton)   (Bedford, 37-seat) (3-axle, 16-ton)
Bitumen Road!/
60                 18.73               35.09                45.92             81.09
50                 18.48               35.12                 46.81            83.23
4o                 l9.05               36.19                 49.L3            87.o5
30                 20.71               39.53                55.27            96.31
20                 23.40               46.09                66.72            113.33
Gravel or Earth Road
50                 18.92               36.21                Il3,5.7          86.L6
4o                 20.88               ho.38                55.23            96.95
30                 24.37               43.60                66.30           122.22
20                 31.46               63.07                92.15           167.29
NOTE: Costs are net of taxes; foreign exchange is shadow priced at 130%
of financial costs; and costs include an interest charge of l10p.a.
on vehicle capital.
l/Assumes unbroken road surface.
Costs on failing bitumen surfaces range up to 16% higher.
pource: SWKP/EIU, Vehicle Operating Cost Study, 1975
September 1975



GHANA                              TABLE 12
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Deliveries of Motor Fuel for Domestic Consumption, 1962, 1967-72
(millions aO  gaLlons)
Gasoline         Diesel Fuel       TUTAL
1962                 39.0               49.0            88.o
1967                 41.1               45.5            86.6
1968                 44.2               44.9            89.1
1969                 46.1               48.1           94.2
1970                 50.8               51.1          101.9
1971                 55.9               53.8          109.7
1972                 58.4               57.8          116.2
Annual Compound
Gro-.;th Rate (X)
1962-67               1.1               -1.5            -0.2
1967-72               7.3                4.9             6.1
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics
March 1975.



GHANA                              TABLE 13
SECOND  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                    Page 1
Annual Incremental Economic Benefits and Costs of
Maintaining Roads in Good Condition
Annualized
Benefits             Incremental
1/    Present                            per mile      Cost   3
Surface     AADT        Gondition      per vehicle-mile   per year    per mile -    B/C Ratio
-pesewas)          uuu (¢OW
Northern Region
Bitumen    <500           Poor                1.7            1.9           1.9           1.0
Average             0.9           1.0            0.7           1.4
Gravel &   >250           Por                14.7           18.8           2.1           7.8
Earth                   Average             4.7            6.0           0.9           6.7
Poor              21.7           15.8            1.9           8.3
1,50-250     Average              7.2           5.3            0.7           7.6
Poor               21.7           7.9            1.5           5.3
50-150      Average             7.2            2.7            o.6           4.5
Poor               39.7           5.8            1.1           5.3
25-5o       Average            18.2            2.7            0.4          6.8
Poor               39.7            2.2           0.7           3.1
<25         Average            18.2            1.0           0.3           3.3
Southwestern Region
Bitumen      7750         Poor                1.7            7.1            2.6          2.8
Average             0.9            3.9           0.9           4.3
500-750       Poor                1.6            3.8           2.2           1.7
Average             0.8           1.9            0.b           2.4
.'500        Poor                1.6            1.8           1.8           1.0
Average             0.8           0.9            0.7           1.3
Gravel &    "250          Poor               12.8           16.3            2.1          6.8
Earth                   Average             4.2            5.4           0.9           6.0
150-250       Poor               18.8           13.7           1.9           7.2
Average             6.3            4.6           0.7           6.6
50-150       Poor              18.8            6.9            1.6           4.3
Average             6.3           2.3            0.6           3.8
25-50        Poor               37.2            5.h           1.2           4.5
Average           15.7            2.3            0.4           5.8
ec25        Poor               37.2            2.1           0.7           3.0
Average           15.7            0.9            0.3           3.0



TALBLE _13
Page 2
Annualized
Benefits            Incremental
1/    Present,                       per mile      Cost  3
Surface    AADT-    Condition      per vehlicle mile per year   per mile-        B/C Ratio
Cpesewas)    (%000)       (0000)
Southeastern Region
Bitumen   >750         Poor               1.2          5.3           2.4          2.2
Average            0.6         2.6           0.9           2.9
500-750    Poor               1.2          2.8           2.2          1.3
Average            0.6         1.4           0.8           1.8
-500        Poor               1.2         1.8           1.8           1.0
Average            o.6         0.7           0.7           1.0
Gravel &  , 250        Poor              10.2        13.0           2.4           5
Earth                Average            3.1          4.3          0.9            .8
150-250    Poor              15.2         11.1           1.9           5.8
Average            5.2         3.8           0.7           5.4
50-150    Poor              15.2          5.6           1.6          3.5
Average            5.2         1.9           0.6           3.2
25-50     Poor              29.1          h.2          1.2           3.5
Average          12.6          1.8           0.4           4.5
.c25       Poor              29.1          1.6          0.7           2.3
Average           12.6         0.7           0.3           2.3
Note:  Annual costs and benefits of maintaining roads in good condition,
after they have been brought up to good condition through backlog
maintenance. Incremental costs are the total costs of maintenance
less what is currently being spent.
1/Average annual daily traffic.
2/ After road is brought up to good condition; estirmated as two years
in the case of roads presently in average condition, and five years
in the case of roads presently in poor condition.
3/ Estimated as 2/3 of total maintenance cost for roads presently in poor
condition, and 1/4 of total maintenance cost for roads presently in
average condition. Includes capital depreciation and interest (10/%/year).
Source:  RJA, Highway Maintenance Economic Evaluation, February 1975.
Mission estimates.
November 1975



GHANA                            TABLE 14
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Speed and Vehicle Composition Utilized
in Evaluation of Maintenance Program
A. Average Vehicle Speed (m.p.h.)
Vehicle            Surface Condition
Surface        AADT           Type      Good        Average        Poor
Bitumen        >750         Light        55           45            40
Medium      42           34            30
Heavy       37           31            28
< 750        Light        50           45            40
Medium       38          34            30
Heavy       34           31            28
Gravel &      :>250         Light        50           40            30
-Earth                     Medium       38           30            23
Heavy       34           28            21
50-250        Light        45           35            25
Medium       34          26            19
Heavy       31           24            18
< 50        Light        30           20            15
Medium       23          15            12.5
Heavy       21           13            12.5
B.  Average Vehicle Composition (percent)
Region
Vehicle Type                Northern       Southwestern        Southeastern
Light                       40              50                  65
Medium                      45               40                 30
Heavy                       15              10                   5
-!Vehicle Type:  Li£ht   -  Peugeot 404
Medium - Average of 2-axle,
6-ton truck and medium bus
Heavy   -  3-axle, 16-ton truck
Source: RJA, Highway Maintenance Economic -Evaluation,
February 1975
July 1975.



GHANA                                  TABLE 15
SECOND  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Program (First Phase) - Economic Cost~s and aengfits
(Cedis M4illions)
Savings
Incremental Costs                         in Vehicle
Fiscal    Vehicles &    Technical        Recurrent   2/           Operating        Net
Year      Equipment      Assistance -   Expenditures-   Total   Costs            benefits
1976       12.6'3          1.16            1.10          14.94       1.03         13.d6
1977        4.09           1.17            3.58           3.84       2.14          6.70
1978         1.29          0.15            6.33           7.77      10.01          2.24
1979        0.29           0.01            6.33           6.63     19.37          12.74
1980                                       7.00           7.00     30.44          23.44
1981                                       7.70           7.70     L2.77          35.07
1982                                       8.U8           8.48     51.04          42.56
1983                                       8.)8           8.08     56.20          47.72
Economic Return:  54%
Note: All costs are net of taxes and duties at January 1975 prices;
foreign exchange shadow-priced at 130% of official exchange rate;
unskilled labor shadow-priced at one cedi/man-day (40% of minimum
wage).
l/ Includes technical assistance to GHA, road contractors, quarry operators,
and BHC.
2/ Includes the incremental cost of labor, fuel, spare parts, and other
current resources.
Source:   GHA and mission estimates.
August 1975.



GHANA                        TABLE 16
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits of Reconstructing
the Achimota-Nsawam Road
(Cedis Thousands at September 1975 prices)
Incremental Construction and Overlay Costs              Incremental Benefits
Maintenance                                       Savings in
and Overlay of                        VOC            Recurrent      Total
Year    Reconstructionl/ Existing Road    Difference           Savings        Maintenance   Benefits
1976         3522               -               3522                              -
1977         3301             1542              1759             -              -8          - 8
1978         3301             1542              1759             -              - 8         - 8
1979           -                -                  -            651              59         710
1980           -                -                  -            696              58         754
1981           -               798             - 798            745              56         801
1982           -                -                  -            798              49         847
1983          646               -                646           853               39         892
1984           -              1060             -1060            913             -11         902
1985         -3582/             _              - 358            977              62        1036
1986        -3582/              -              - 358          1045               57        1102
1987         -358&V            298             - 656          1119               49        1168
1988          646               -                646          1197               37        1234
1989           -                -                 -           1281               57        1338
1990           -              1060             -1060          1370              -18        1352
1991           -                -                  -          1466               38        1504
1992          925               -                925          1568               53        1621
1993           -               298              -298          1679               49        1278
1994           -                                   -          1796               39        1835
1995           -                -                  -          1922               22        1944
1996          925             1060              -135           2057             -70        1987
1997           -                -                  -           2201               8        2209
1998                    -                          -           2355              32        2387
Economic Return: 13.5%
Note: All costs are net of tax and other transfer payments at January 1975 prices; foreign
exchange shadow-priced at 130% of the official exchange rate.
1/ Includes cost of reconstruction on parallel alignment, land acquisition, supervision, and
physical contingencies.
2/Residual value of existing road for constructing second carriageway.
Source: SWKP/EIU and mission estimates.
September 1975



TABLE17
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits of Reconstructing the Achimota-Nsawam
Road on Parallel rather than Existing Alignment
(Cedis Thousands at September 1975 prices)
Costs                               Benefits
Earthworks,          Routine          VOC Savings         Construction
Drainage &        Maintenance of          during             Cost           Net
Year     Ancillary Works    Existing Road         ReconstructionlY   Savings          Benefits
1976           298                 8                    -                300V/          -  6
1977           298                 8                   246                -             - 60
1978           298                 8                   218                -             - 88
1979            -                  8                    -                 -             -  8
1980            -                  8                    -                 -             -  8
1981            -                  8                    -                 -             -  8
1982            -                  8                    -                 -             -  8
1983            -                  8                    -                 -             -  8
1984            -                  8                                      -             -  8
1985            -                  -                    -                358/           +358
1986            -                                       -                3584          +358
1987            -                                                        358:-'         +358
Economic Return: 24.0%
- It is estimated that construction would affect an average of 4 mi during a two-year
period of construction. Average automobile operating speed would drop from an average
35 mph on the existing road to 25 mph on the temporary road within the construction area.
Average economic vehicle operating cost savings are estimated at 4.6 pesewas per vehicle-
mile.
2/Cost of temporary road to handle traffic during construction on existing alignment.
3/ Value of earthworks, drainage, and ancillary works for constructing second carriageway.
Cost estimated to be 20% higher than if undertaken at the time of the present
reconstruction.
Source:   SWKP/EIU and mission estimates.
September 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bank for Housing and Construction
I. Institutional Aspects
A.   General
1.        The Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) was established by the
Government by Decree of November 30, 1972 (amended in September 1973), and
commenced business in December 1973. Basic data are shown in Table 1 of this
Annex.
2.        BHC's main objectives are (i) to finance and implement housing and
engineering schemes 1/ in the public and private sectors; and (ii) to encourage
and facilitate the participation of domestic and foreign capital in such
schemes. BHC also aims to encourage local production of construction materials.
3.        BHC is authorized to provide finance in the form of long- or medium-
term loans with or without security; purchase, subscribe to, and underwrite
shares and other securities; make equity investments; issue guarantees;
borrow funds in Ghana and abroad; and undertake research activities involving
such issues as project identification. It is also authorized to accept
deposits, and to provide clients with commercial banking facilities, including
working capital finance.
4.        Authorized share capital is about 0 10 million, while paid-in share
capital as of mid-1975 totalled about 0 5.8 million; of the latter, 0 2.0
million was paid directly by the Government, and the remainder by five insti-
tutions owned or controlled by the Government. A list of shareholders is
shown in Table 2 of this Annex. Shares can be offered to the general public
(which has not yet been feasible), provided that 50% of the shares are taken
up by the Government.
5.        BHC is governed by a Board of Directors comprising twelve members,
of whom six appointed by the Government, five by the other shareholders, and
one (the Executive Director) by the Board on recommendation of the Managing
Director. Table 3 of this Annex lists the members of the Board. The represen-
tation of various interests appears reasonable.
B.   Management, Staffing, and Organization
6.        All the top management personnel are Ghanaian, and they appear
capable and competent. Day-to-day issues are the responsibility of the
1/   Including housing projects, commercial buildings, tourism projects,
urban development programs, and various infrastructure projects such as
roads and bridges.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Managing Director who is appointed by the Government for file years in the
first instance. One Executive Director has been assisting with the management
responsibilities, but BHC's operations have grown so rapidly that the appoint-
ment of a second Executive Director is being considered.
7.        At end-1974, BHC had about 90 staff members, of whom 34 professionals.
Staff are all generally well qualified, although some have had only little
previous experience in investment and banking. The present managerial staff
is however insufficient to handle the growth in business and new activities.
BHC has prepared detailed staffing plans to meet such needs, and expects to
recruit about 55 professionals over the period covered by its operational
forecasts (1975-78). BHC staff will be supported during execution of the
proposed project by two foreign advisors, one specialized in the activities
of road contractors, and the other in quarry operations.
8.        BHC's organization consists of: (i) the Planning Department which
is responsible for identifying areas of potentially viable investments, and
for carrying out feasibility studies and project appraisal; (ii) the Operations
Department which implements and supervises projects, and also provides the
Planning Department with technical support in project evaluation; (iii) the
Finance Department which is responsible for accounting, resource planning, and
BHC's commercial banking activies; and (iv) the Administration Department which
handles personnel matters. (See Organization Chart attached to this Annex.)
An Internal Audit Department and a Legal Department have been created during
1975. BHC is also planning to open branches in Kumasi and in the greater
Accra area by end-1975, and one during each of the next three years in other
regional centers.
C.   Operating Policies and Procedures
Operating Policies
9.        BHC's lending policies are specified in its by-laws, and in two
publications entitled "Financing Plans" and "Introducing BHC". None of these
sources is however sufficiently comprehensive. BHC is therefore preparing
additional policy statements as outlined in paras. 10 and 11 below.
10.       BHC's lending policies appear generally appropriate to serve its
objectives and functions. BHC has agreed that it shall not extend any loan
or guarantee to, or make any investment in an enterprise, if the amount of
such loan, guarantee, or investment, when added to the principal amounts of
all other loans or guarantees extended to, or investments made in such enter-
prise by BHC, would exceed either the equivalent of 25% of the current value
of the consolidated capital and surplus of BHC and all its subsidiaries, or
the equivalent of 90% of the aggregate of the current gross value of the
fixed assets of such enterprise and the estimated cost to such enterprise of



ANNEX 1
Page 3
the fixed assets to be financed out of the proceeds of such loan or investment
or covered by such guarantee. 1/
11.       Present policy stipulates that BHC may take as much as 100% equity
participation, and not less than 55% in projects which it promotes. By
taking majority equity positions, BHC could be called on to assume the
managerial responsibility of such enterprises, thereby straining its own
management resources; besides, BHC might face a conflict of interest in being
both the owner of and the banker for such projects. BHC's majority equity
positions might be necessary in important projects for which suitable local
entrepreneurs with adequate funds could not be found. In such cases, BHC
would recruit professional management (local or foreign), but it would always
employ foreign technical assistance until local staff are trained to run the
project. BHC has confirmed that it shall cause any enterprise in which it owns
more than 50% of the current value of the capital and surplus, to employ
experienced and qualified management.
Appraisal and Supervision
12.       BHC's appraisal of industrial projects is of varying but generally
acceptable quality. An internal rate of return is calculated for all projects,
and with the inclusion of forecast balance sheets and some relevant ratios,
technical and financial aspects are covered quite comprehensively. Market
analysis in some cases needs to be more detailed; BHC is aware of this and
has the capacity for improvement. Most project studies, however, provide
only a few economic indicators and little economic analysis. In recognition
of this, the Bank/IDA is attempting to assist BHC in the application of
relevant economic appraisal techniques.
1/   The following definitions apply to paras. 10 and 11 of this Annex:
(1)  "current value" means the value determined as of the date on which
the agreement for the loan or investment is executed and delivered.
(2) "consolidated capital and surplus of BHC and all its subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus, and
free reserves, after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall re-
present equity interests of BHC in any subsidiary or of any sub-
sidiary in BHC or any other subsidiary.
(3) "gross value of the fixed assets" means the historic cost of the
fixed assets as revalued from time to time in accordance with
appropriate principles and procedures of valuation; and
(4)  "capital and surplus"means unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus, and
free reserves.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
13.       Applications for term-loans are subject to an initial screening by
a Project Committee 1/; if approved, an appraisal report is prepared and
reviewed in the Planning Department, and re-submitted to the Project Committee.
Final decisions are taken by the House Committee 2/ for loans and investments
not exceeding 4 100,000, by the Executive Committee 3/ for those up to
¢ 250,000, and by the Board of Directors for larger projects.
14.       BHC's supervision procedures in the areas of hire-purchase, resi-
dential housing, and pre-financing, are satisfactory. The industrial projects
approved so far will become operational only after machinery and equipment are
delivered, and supervision procedures for this type of operation are now being
developed.
Procurement and Disbursement
15.       BHC requires that clients obtain quotations from at least three
suppliers. The Operations Department checks these quotations and verifies
that they are competitive and properly evaluated. These procedures appear
adequate to ensure that suitable machinery is purchased at reasonable prices.
16.       For disbursements, clients must first provide their share of the
financing. The physical progress of the project is checked, and disbursements
are then made in stages as appropriate. Disbursements for local cost expendi-
tures are made directly to suppliers whenever possible; for foreign currency
items, disbursements are made against letters of credit and bills of lading.
The above procedures appear satisfactory.
Relations with Government and the Business Community
17.       The three Government representatives on BHC's Board of Directors
take an active interest in overall policy formulation; however, there is no
indication that the Government influences BHC's investment decisions.
18.       BHC works closely with the National Investment Bank (NIB), and
they have undertaken some joint financing of projects. A good working rela-
tionship has also been established with the Ghana Commercial Bank. Coordi-
nation of effort has started with the Ghana Highway Authority (GRA) in areas
such as the support and classification of road contractors, and the two
agencies plan to keep constant liaison on matters of mutual interest. BHC
intends to develop a closer cooperation with the Building and Road Research
1/   The Project Committee comprises the Executive Director and heads of
the operations and Planning Departments.
2/   The House Committee comprises the Managing Director, the Executive
Director, and the four Department Heads.
3/   The Executive Committee consists of five Directors from the Board
(See Table 3).



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Institute (BRRI) and similar institutions, both by utilizing and possibly
initiating research projects, and by availing itself of BRRI's expertise in
carrying out feasibility studies.
19.       BHC's services to contractors are invaluable, not only because BHC
caters to their specific needs, but also because it has been instrumental in
developing new types of financing suited to their requirements. As such,
BHC has developed a close working relationship with the Civil Engineering
and Building Contractors' Association of Ghana (CAG), which also values its
attempt to help equip contractors through Plant Pool Ltd. (para. 23).
II. Operations and Finance
A.   Past Operations
20.       In line with its stated objectives, BHC's operations have been
directed towards building the institution generally, and towards:
(i) promoting and financing projects, including industrial,
commercial, and residential buildings; and
(ii) meeting the working capital needs and financing the purchase
of equipment needed by local contractors and producers of
construction materials.
Table 4 of this Annex shows the status of BHC's lending operations, and
Table 5 gives an analysis of industrial loan approvals.
21.       Housing finance has so far been limited to residential mortgage
loans. BHC may finance up to 90% of cost. The maximum amount of a housing
loan is 0 50,000; the average size has been about ¢ 20,000. The repayment
period can be up to 20 years.
22.       Financing of contractors' equipment is provided on a hire-purchase
basis, with applicants making a 25% down-payment. Average loan size was
about 0 50,000, with a maturity period of up to two years. BHC's pre-financ-
ing arrangement provides 30-40% of the contract amount to firms which have
been awarded Government contracts but which cannot afford the heavy initial
cash outlays required. Average loan size was about 0 50,000. They are
normally extended for six months, and are renewable within the contract
amount.
23.       As of mid-1975, BHC had approved equity investments in eight
projects (Table 6). Seven of these produce building and construction
materials, and one (Plant Pool Ltd.) is a plant-hire service company estab-
lished with the primary objective of renting equipment (with operators) to
contractors; operations started in early 1975. The main pool located in



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Accra has a workshop for repairs and maintenance; eventually, depots with
servicing facilities will be set up in three regional centers, and a mobile
workshop will be equipped. Plant Pool Ltd is expected to serve the needs of
small and newly-established contractors who have limited equipment and funds,
and will also provide specialized equipment which contractors only occasion-
ally require. Technical management is augmented by two foreign experts pro-
vided by the equipment suppliers.
24.       BHC also provides regular commercial banking services such as deposit
facilities, overdrafts, and letters of credit. Commercial bank lending is
primarily intended to meet the working capital needs of BHC's term-loan clients
and other parties engaged in building and construction. The amount outstand-
ing on these services at mid-1975 was 0 18.0 million (Table 7).
B.   Resources
25.       At mid-1975, BHC's total resources were 0 60.3 million, of which
0 46.6 million (about 77%) were short-term.  Deposits are expected to continue
to represent a significantly high proportion of total liabilities. BHC's
short-term resource position has been fairly comfortable due to the rapid
increase in deposits.
26.       BHC has found it more difficult to attract long-term resources.
At mid-1975, these resources totalled 0 13.6 million, of which e 6.5 million
in equity and 0 7.1 million in a 6% bond issue; the latter is part of a bond
issue of 0 10.0 million floated in November 1974 and redeemable in 1980-84.
All available resources are however in local currency, and as of mid-1975,
BHC had no foreign currency funds at its disposal.
C.   Financial Position
27.       BHC's balance sheets (unaudited) as of June 30 and December 31,
1974, and June 30, 1975, are shown in Table 7 of this Annex. Consolidated
balance sheets are not shown, as projects which were to become subsidiaries
of BHC were not operational. Commercial bank lending accounted for about
30% of total assets at June 30, 1975, while special loans and advances
accounted for about 28%.
28.       At mid-1975, BHC had a total of 0 3.4 million in contingent liabili-
ties, all for less than a year covering confirmed letters of credit.
29.       Outstanding mortgage loans totalled about 4 1 million at end-1974
and are forecast to reach about 0 12.2 million by end-1978. Loans for housing
might be expected to increase significantly with implementation of the Govern-
ment's plan for a housing fund with BHC. This necessitates the establishment
of a new debt/equity limit which makes allowance for the special nature of
housing loans in order not to restrict BHC's future borrowing capacity and
thereby its lending. Since BHC's future exposure in the housing sector
cannot be accurately forecast, it would be difficult to establish this new
ratio at present. It appears reasonable, however, to reduce the weight to



ANNEX 1
Page 7
one-fifth on term-debt used for housing (equivalent to a debt/equity ratio
of 15:1 on term-debt used for mortgage loans), and to exclude short-term
debt (i.e. deposits) from the definition.
30.       Present debt/equity ratio calculated along the lines outlined in
para. 29 above is well within the limit of 3:1.
Quality of Portfolio
31.       Since BHC started operations in December 1973, only part of the
portfolio had matured and repayments started at the end of the year. None
of the industrial or commercial loans had fallen due at end-1974, as delivery
of the machinery and equipment financed had only just started. It is there-
fore too early to judge the quality of that aspect of the portfolio, but the
repayment record on other lending has been good as of June 1975. In view of
the short life of the portfolio, BHC has established initial provisions for
bad or doubtful debts of 0 200,000 as of June 30, 1975, but will reconsider
this as the portfolio matures.
Profitability
32.       BHC's financial year ends June 30.  The Government had agreed that
accounts for the period ending June 30, 1974 would not be audited, as BHC
had then been in actual operation for only a few months. The first audit
report therefore covers the initial period of about 18 months from inception
(December 18, 1973) to June 30, 1975.
33.       The income statement for this period is shown in Table 8 of this
Annex. BHC made a small profit over this initial period, but since it is
a relatively new institution, it would not be possible to make a meaningful
evaluation of its profitability indicators.
34.       BHC is planning to establish a Reserve Fund into which it will
transfer at the end of each financial year all or portions of its net profit
as stipulated in detail in the Decree, until reserves are at least equal to
the amount of the authorized share capital.
III. Prospects
A.   General
35.       BHC's activities in the plan period 1975-80 will be influenced by
Government policy in the building and construction sectors. To help meet the
Government's stated objectives in these areas, the emphasis in future BHC
lending will be adjusted in two important aspects: (i) it will become more
involved in financing low-income housing; and (ii) it will pay increasing



ANNEX 1
Page 8
attention to the financing and promotion of domestic road contractors. BHC
also plans to expand its promotional activities in the construction material
industries.
B.   Business Forecasts
36.       BHC's operational projections and their underlying assumptions
are given in Tables 9 and 10 of this Annex. These projections appear
reasonable, although they should be viewed with some reservation, given the
uncertainties in forecasting business for a new institution. The latest
information received seems to indicate that projections are on the conserva-
tive side. Over the period 1975-78, average total medium- and long-term
financing is estimated at about 0 15 million p.a. Over the same period,
special short-term lending (pre-financing of contracts and hire-purchase)
is projected to average about 0 12.7 million p.a.
37.       Over the entire forecast period, loan approvals for industrial and
commercial projects are expected to total about 0 27.3 million, of which
l 24.6 million (about 90%) are in foreign currency. Loan forecasts for 1975
and 1976 are based on projects in the pipeline, mostly in the building
materials industry or in tourism. BHC also expects to approve equity in-
vestments for industrial and commercial projects totalling e 4.0 million
during the 1975-78 period.
38.       Approvals of mortgage loans for residential houses are projected to
total 0 14.2 million over 1975-78. These mortgage loans benefit primarily
the upper level of the middle-income class. In an effort to reach also the
lower-income groups, BHC is planning to finance and develop two satellite
towns near Accra and Kumasi through a subsidiary and with the participation
of other agencies and foreign expertise.
39.       BHC will continue to provide short-term facilities to its term-loan
clients through pre-financing of contracts and its commercial bank lending.
If the actual demand for pre-financing exceeds forecasts, BHC is prepared to
meet this need by reducing its commercial bank lending to which it assigns
a lower priority.
Support for Contractors
40.       BHC's support to contractors during the forecast period is expected
to take the form of: (i) meeting their working capital needs, primarily
through pre-financing of contracts; (ii) hire-purchase financing of trucks
and equipment; (iii) managerial and technical assistance including courses
in accounting.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
The projected financing requirements for items (i) and (ii), prepared in
February 1975, are as follows:
(in 0'000)
Actual                                       Total
1974     1975    1976    1977    1978    1975-78
Pre-financing of contracts
Roads                    793    2,300   2,530   2,780   3,060       10,670
Buildings              2,748    6,050   6,650   7,310   8,040       28,050
3,541    8,350   9,180  10,090  11,100       38,720
Trucks                 4,220    3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000       12,000
Contractors' Equipment
Foreign currency          -       -      3,400   2,700   2,700       8,800
Local currency         1,137    1,200   1,400   1,600   1,800        6,000 /1
1_137    1,200   4,800   4,300   4,500       14,800
TOTAL                  8,898   12,550  16,980  17,390  18,600       65,520
/1   For items already imported by local dealers or assembled locally.
41.       All foreign currency loans for equipment as shown in the above
table will be made to road contractors. Up to 1978, 0 8.8 million (about
US$7.7 million) are estimated, compared with 0 7.5 million (about US$6.5
million) of Bank/IDA funds earmarked for this purpose under the proposed
project. BHC's forecast is based mainly on the overall estimated needs of
contractors for additional equipment and spare parts required for road works.
The 1976 forecast of 0 3.4 million is higher than that for subsequent years
because of the need to eliminate the present backlog.
Support for Quarry Operations
42.       BHC's support for quarry operations is expected to take the form
of: (i) providing term-loans to five new quarries for purchase of spare
parts; (ii) providing term-loans to existing quarries for purchase of spare
parts and supplementary items of equipment; (iii) providing working capital
finance to new and existing quarries; and (iv) conducting a survey of existing
quarries, and providing technical assistance.
43.       The five new quarries to be established in different regions of
the country are intended to meet local demand for crushed stone for road
works and other purposes. The cost of equipment to be financed is estimated



ANNEX 1
Page 10
to total about 4 5.5 million (about US$5 million), with foreign costs
expected to be met from the Bank Loan and from a loan being negotiated with
KfW. Also, so that it can directly influence the selection of good management
staff for the project, BHC is planning to take equity participation in each
of the five quarries to a total of about ¢ 0.4 million.
Resource Needs
44.       BHC's short-term resource needs are expected to be met through
deposits. These are projected to increase by an annual average of about 0 27
million with the opening of six new branches during the forecast period (three
in 1975). Even though only 60% of deposits can be used for lending, BHC's
projected short-term resource position is comfortable. No problems are
expected in meeting disbursements for pre-financing and hire-purchase, and
there should also be enough funds to increase commercial Bank lending.
45.       Long-term resource needs in local currency will be met through bond
issues and increased equity (Table 11). Of the ¢ 10 million bond issue (para.
26), ¢ 7.1 million had been taken up by mid-1975. The remaining 0 2.9 million
will be taken up by SSNIT 1/ or BOG. BOG will also underwrite a second bond
issue, likely to be floated in late 1977, ensuring that it will pick up any
balance not taken up by private or other public investors. BHC plans to
increase its annual share capital payments so that the total authorized
capital will be paid in by 1977. Local currency resources are sufficient
to meet projected loan approvals of ¢ 19.1 million through 1977.
46.       The proposed Bank lending would be the first foreign currency
resources to be made available to BHC. The US$6.5 million (¢ 7.5 million)
earmarked for road contractors compares with BHC projected approvals for this
item of US$7.7 million (O 8.8 million) through 1978, thus allowing a margin
of 0 1.3 million for slippages. The US$1.0 million (¢ 1.15 million) earmarked
for quarries will cover only a small proportion of foreign currency needs for
industrial projects, projected to total about ¢ 24.6 million through 1977.
The balance of 0 23.7 million would therefore be raised from other foreign
lenders. One potential source is KfW, which is processing a loan for a
project, including five quarries, with a total foreign exchange cost of
about 0 5.5 million (about US$5 million equivalent). The shortfall of about
4 15 million might be provided from bilateral sources for two or three large
projects, but arrangements are not yet confirmed. If BHC is unable to raise
the required foreign currency funds, promoters of the proposed projects will
require import licenses, and loans will have to be made in local currency.
C.   Financial Projections
47.       Projected balance sheets through 1978 are given in Table 11 of this
Annex. Assets are projected to increase from 0 32.2 million in 1974, the first
year of business, to about 0 190 million at end-1978. Provisions as a propor-
tion of total special loans and advances and equity investments are expected
to increase from 2.9% in 1975 to about 8.2% in 1978.
1/   Social Security and National Insurance Trust.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
48.       The long-term debt/equity ratio, calculated according to the formula
outlined in para. 29, is expected to increase from 0.4 at end-1974 to 2.1 by
end-1978. The limit would still be observed without adjustments for mortgage
loan funds. (see table below). The ratio assumes that additional share capital
will be paid in by 1977 as planned by BHC. However, the Decree under which
BHC was established stipulates that half of its share capital shall be taken
up by the Government. BHC reports that the Government has undertaken to
subscribe to the share capital in five equal yearly instalments; if this
schedule is followed, the share capital will be paid in full in 1978 instead
of 1977 as assumed in the projections. BHC has therefore requested the
Government to pay in its share of the authorized share capital earlier than
planned.
49.       Projected income and cash flow statements through 1978 are given
in Tables 12 and 13 of this Annex. The tables show that net profit is
expected to increase from about ¢ 1.0 million in 1975 to about 0 1.3 million
in 1978, and to vary as a proportion of average net worth from 14.0% in 1975
to 9.0% in 1978. Administrative expenses are forecast to increase from about
0 1.0 million in 1975 to about 4 1.6 million in 1978, but to decrease as a
proportion of average total assets from 3.2% in 1974 to 0.9% in 1978; these
expenses as forecast by BHC however appear rather low. Finally, the projec-
tions indicate that BHC's liquidity position and debt service coverage will
be satisfactory over the period.
(As of end of Calendar Year)
1974      1975       1976       1977      1978
Debt
Long-term debt            3,182    10,000    16,324    35,427    40,852
Less 4/5 of
outstanding
mortgage loans               756     2,625      4,890     7,253      9,731
TOTAL                2,426      7,375    11,434    28,174    31,121
Equity
(a) Debt/equity
ratio
(including
adjustment
for mortgage
loans out-
standing)              0.4        0.9       1.0        2.1        2.1
(b) Debt/equity
ratio (with-
out adjust-
ment)                  0.5        1.2        1.4       2.6        2.8



Annex 1
Table 1
Page 1
Ghana
Second Highway Project
Bank For Housing And Construction
Basic Data as of June,30 1975
Year Of Establishment: 1973
Ownership                                          Issued and paid-in
share capital
Amount      Percentage
Go*ernment of Ghana                         2,000          34.5
5 public institutions                       3,800          65.5
5,800         100.0
Resource Position
Sources                                          (e '000)
Paid-in share capital                          5,800
Pfofit and loss account                          737
-6,537
Bond issue                                     7.093
13,630
Usets
Hire-Purchase (40% of outstanding)             7,131
Mortgage Loans                                 2,797
Industrial loans                               5,867
Equity investments                             1,678
Fixed investmenta                                318
17,791
Available for disbursement                        4,161
Approved not yet disbursed                       11,978
-7,817
Operational Data                                   June 30, 1975
Total assets                                     63,617
Equity                                            6,537
Long-term debt                                    7,093
Term loans and equity portfolio                   9,983
Net profit                                          737
Intereft Rates and Charges
Deposits
Savings                                          7)% p.a.
Fixed:  3 months                                 7 5/8%p.a.
6 months                                7 7/8%p.a.
12 months                                8%



Annex l(Contd.)
Table 1
Page 2
Loans
Short-term facilities                        12Y%  p.a.
Industrial loans                             12% p.a.
Mortgage loans                                10 % p.a.
Hire-purchase                                       114% per month (15% p.a.)
Commitment fee                                      1 %
Guarantee fee                                       1 %
Source: BHC
September 1975



Annex 1
Table 2
Ghana
Second Highway Project
Bank For Housing And Construction
List Of Shareholders (as of June 30, 1975)
As Of
June 30, 1975
Percentage
Amount              of total
Government of the Republic Of Ghana           2,000                34.50%
Bank of Ghana                                 1,000                17.24%
National Investment Bank                        400                 6.89%
State Insurance Corporation                   1,000                17.24%
Ghana Commercial Bank                           400                 6.89%
Social Security & National Insurance Trust 1,000                   17.24%
5,800               100.0%
Source: BHC
September 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 3
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CCNSTRUCTION
Board of Directors as of December 31, 197T
Directors                                                  Appointed by
Harry Sawyerr                  Chairman, BHC                          NRC
Chairman and Managing
Director, Sawyerr & Co.
(Chartered 9hrveyors)
Edward Afriye                  Managing Director, BHC                 NRC
Maxwell Elliot Badu            Executive Director, BHC        Commissioner for Finance
Kwesi Akumenya Cato            Manager and Adviser, United   Commissioner for Finance
African Company of Ghana
John Maxwell Ewa               Chief Administrator, Social   Social Security &
Security & National            National Insurance
Insurance Trust                Trust
Dr. Anthony Kwesi Appiah       Director of Budget,                    NRC
Ministry of Finance
Robert Kwakye                  Executive Civil Engineer,      Commissioner for Finance
Department of Social
Welfare & Community
Developrnent
Jacob Antwi Nuamahi'           Area Director, National        National Investment Bank
Investment Bank
Emmanuel Ashare Sai            Principal Secretary, Minis-            NRC
try of Works & Housing
Adolphus Moltke Naumann        Financial Controller, State   State Insurance
Insurance Corporation          Corporation
Yawo Amefia Opeku              Head of Valuation Department, Ghana Commercial Bank
Ghana Commercial Bank
Samuel Kortei Botchway         Executive Director, Bank       Bank of Ghana
of Ghana
~/  itembers of Pxecutive Cornittea
Iv I;tional ILederption Council
Source: BHC
September 1975



AINIUX 1
'lable 
SNi±GUAi) HiIGiiWAY 1)1OJJCT
BANK F( xI XiU.5IL' Ai&i) C%NISTRUCTIHOT
Summary of Operations (tiirou,;h June 30, 1975)
(In Cedis Thousands)
A provals 1/      Disburseements
Sh,ort -Term                                  1, O.   Aiount    ITo.      Ariourt
Pre-fin. ilcinLj o-f contracts
Roads                                      45      3,638      45        6,104
Buil in_ F2/                              174      6,534    174,
Sub-total                              219    10,173    219           6X104
i.i- e -, urch Ase 3
Trucks                                    150      7,166    150         7,166
Coontr.ctors'  equipment                   14      1%442      14        1.442
Sub-total _1__ 8.608                                                     __T 8,60,8
fotal Short-'TPerm                           ,2    18,7'31       3        14,712
I-fecdium -.1 'L on,-L er1n
'iKogfrt'ge lons                             129      2,79?     142         1,'92
nm.' tri-  jx-o juCt-S
T,o i-i, loer:a  _ml rency                  35      6,313      29        1,871
,uity                                       8      1,678                1,o36
Jub-tot,l                                7, 7991             34        2,907
2Uotfl1 LeCliul ?nd Lon_--erm               172    10,733      146        4,799
;H ,Y lGThL                          29,55      52
I/BHC does not distinguish between approvals and commitments as the time
lag between the two is small.
Z/Includes ¢1.568 million as approvals for 80 contracts in respect-of
supplies of materials mostly building materials.
3/Past hire-purchase had a term of up to two years.
Source: BHC
September 1975



GHANA                          ANNEX] I
Table 5
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                Page 1
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Analysis of Industrial loan ADprovals as of June,
30. 1975
(In Codis Thousands)
Size                             No.              Amount - #'000
Under 50,000                       13     37             401           7
50,000 - 200,000                  17      48          19468           23
200,001   500,000                  2       6             640          10
500,001   1s000,000                2       6           i,4o4          22
Over 01,000,000                     1    j             2,400          38
35    100           6,313         100
Duratien
Less than 4 years                   7     20             254           4
4 to le-s than 7 years            18      51          4,928           78
7 to loss thas 10 years             9     26           1,039          16
10 years and ever                  1       3             92            2
35    100           6,313         100
New or existinE
New enterprise                    22      63          3,999           63
Existing enterpriso ei                    37          2.314           37
35    100           6,313         100
Geographical distribution
Greater Accra Regien              19      54          4,212           67
Central Regioa             -                             0-            -
Western Region                      3      8             987          15
Brong Ahafo Region                  2      6             128           2
Ashanti Region                     7      20             748          12
Eastern Region                      2      6             169           3
Volta Region                                                           -
Northern Region                     -      -              -            -
Upper Region                        2      61
35    100           6,313         100



Aill'EX 1
'able 5
p-a,e 2
No.      %    amount - ¢'000
Indu,try
Wood processing                          3         9           198            3
Concrete products                        8        23         1,320           21
>,u.rr/ring;                             5       14          1,137           18
Cor   rc i-il Services                   8       23          29815           45
Hlotels                                  5        14           461            7
Iizcellaneous                            6        17           382            6
35      100         6,313           100
Ocurce:  'JMC
September 1975



Ghana
Second Highway Project
Bank For Housing And Construction
Equity Investment Approved as of June 30, 1975
Sector of   Date of      Date of         Amount         Amount       Proportion of BHC
Activity  Approval    Subscription   Approved         Disbursed       Participation
1. Saltpond Ceramics  Ceramics  1/31/74          6/11/74)       100,000         100,000            4.0%
10/7/74
2. Fulgurit Asbestos  Asbestos
Products  3/21/74        5/20/74         52,0C0          52,000             4.3%
3. Precast Spun        Concrete
Concrete Products* Products  1/31/74          10/18/74       180,000         180,000           30.0%
4. Readicrete Ltd.*   Ready-
Mixed
Concrete  1/31/74        7/5/74         104,460         104,460            60.0%
5. Plant Pool Ltd.*   Plant
Hire
Service   5/2/74           _            600,000         600,000            60.0%
6. Amalgamated         quarry-
Quarries           ing        4/4/74            _           587,214            _              25.0%
7. Bucho Quarry*       quarry-
ing      12/3/74           _            48,000            _               80.0%
8. Brong Ahafo
Regional Dev.       Quarry-
Corporation         ing        1/5/75                          6,670            -              40.0%
E   1,678,344       1,036,460
'BHC promoted projects.
Source:  BHC
September 1975                                                                                           I



GHANA                                          ANNEX 1
Table 7
SECCND HIGHWAY PROJECT
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Summarized Balance Sheet as at June 30, 1975
(Thousand Cedis).
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities
Demand deposits                                          15,487
Savings deposits                                          3,028
Fixed deposits                                           23,839
Total deposits                                        42,354
Other accounts                                            4,381
46,735
Long-term debt
Bond issue, 6%, 1980/84                                   7,093
Equity
Paid-in share capital                                     5,800
Profit and loss account                                     699
6,499
Total liabilities and equity                            60,327
Contingent liabilities (letters of                          3,358
credits)
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and liquid assets
Cash and Other Banks                                 10,223
Bank of Ghana                                         6,888
Govt. bonds and treasury bills                        6,671
Other accounts                                        1,469
25,251
Commercial bank lending
Bills receivable                                      3,531
Overdrafts                                            9,857
Commercial loans                                        929
Field warehousing                                     1,733
Other lending                                           608*
16,658
Total current assets                                    41,909
Special loans and advances
Short-term
Pre-financing of contracts                           6,139
Hire-purchase
Trucks                                            5,877
Contractors' equipment                            1,223
13,239
Medium and long-term
Mortgage loans                                       1,831
Industrial loans                                     1,847
3,678
Total special loanq and advances                        16,917
Equity investments                                          1,036
Fixed assets (less depreciation)                              465
Preliminary expenses
Total assets                                           63,327
Contingent liabilities                                      3,358
Source: BHC                    *Less provision for Doubtful Debts of 0200
November 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 8
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bank for Housing & Construction
Income Statement for the Period Dec. 18, 1973 to June 30, 1975
(In Cedis Thousands)
Income
Interest                                     2,488
Discounts                                      460
Commissions                                    577
Other                                          282
3,807
Expenses
Salaries                                       469
Other administrative expenses                  615
Total administrative expenses                1,084
Interest and charges on in-debtedness        1,577
Provisions for doubtful debts                  200
Depreciation                                   101
Prelimary expenses                             130
Other                                           16
3,108
Net Profit                                     690
Source: BHC
November 1975



GHANA                                         ANNEX 1
Table 9
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Elrojected Approvals,1 975-1978
(In Cedis Thousands)
Short-Term                        1974    1975      1976      1977     1978
(actual)
Pre-financing of contracts
Roads                          793   2,300    2,530    2,780    3,o60
Buildings                    274    6,050    6,650    7,310    8,040
Sub-total                 3,541       8,350    9,180   10,090   11,100
Hire-purchase, trucks             4,220   3,000    3.00       3,000    32000
Total short-term                   7,761  11,350   12,180   13,090   14,100
Medium and Long-Term
Contractors' equipment
Foreign currency                        -      3,400    2,700    2,700
Local currency               1,137   1,200    1,400    1 600    1,800
Sub-total contractors'   1,137   1,200    4,800                4,500
Mortgage loans                    1,387   3,050    3,350    3,690    4,060
Industrial projects
Loans, foreign currency        -        -      9,860    5,990    8,730
Loans, local currency        3 084      845      430       700      770
Sub-total loans           3,0       845   10,290    6,690    9,500
Equity                       4,072   1,190       670    1,020    1,120
Sub-total industrial
projects                7,156   2,035   10,960    7,710   10,620
Total medium and long-term         9,680   6,285   19,110   15,700   19,180
Grand total                      17,441  17,635   31,290   28,790   33,280
Source: BHC
November 1975



ANNEX 1
GHANA                                        Table 10
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRiSCTION
Projected Disbursements, 1975-1978
(in Cedis Thousands)
Short-Term                        197l4    1975      1976      1977     1978
~~~~ ~~(ac-t-uai)  
Pre-financing of contracts
Roads                          632    2,231    2,507    2,755    3,032
Buildings                    2 724    51569    6,590    7,244    7,967
Sub-total                         7,800    9,097    9,999   10,999
Fire purchase, trucks              4,220    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
Total short-term                   7,576   10,800   12,097   12,999   13,999
Mediumr & Long-'erm
Contractors' Road Equipment
Foreign currency                -               2,380    2,910    2,700
Local currency                 675    164o    1,240    1,540    1 740
Sub-total contractors' _7  7     1,640    3,620    4,450   ft 4
Mortgage Loans                       979    2,5L3    3,260    3588    3,949
Industrial Projects
Loans, foreign currency         -        -      3,944    7,326    5,457
Loans, local currency           716    2,959       555      619       7h9
Sub-total loans           716    2,959    4,499    7,945    6,206
Equity                       1,571    3,33L       826       915    1,090
Sub-total industrial
projects              2,287    6,293    5,325    8,860    7,296
Total medium & long-term           3,941   io.476   12,205   16,89,8  15,685
Grand total                      11,517   21,276   24,302   29,897   29,684
Source: BHC
November 1975



ANNI 1
Table 11
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PRO TCT
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Projected Balance Sheets. 1975-1978
(in Cedis thousands)
1974            1975             1976             1977            1978
(actual)
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities
Deposits                                 18,792          41,700           67,300           96,000          128,100
Other accounts                            4.467           4,914            5,405            5,946            6,541
23,259          46,614           72,705          101.946         134,641
Long-tern debt
Local currency
Ist bond issue                        3,182           10,000           10,000           10,000          10,000
2sd bond issue                           -               -                -             10,000          10,000
Foreign currency
18RD                                    -                -              2,610            5,504           6,956
f14                                      -               -              1,500            4,000            7,500
Others                                   -               -              2,214            5.923           6,396
3,182          10,000           16,324           35,427          40.852
Equity
Paid-in share capital                     5,400           6,800            9,200           10,000          10,000
Profit and loan accsunt                    395            1,372            2,403            3,441           4,702
5.795           8,172           11,603           13.441          14.702
Total liabilities                           32,236          64,786          100,632          150,814          190,195
and equity                                                                                  -
Contingent liabilities                      11,369          12,506           13,756           15,132           16,645
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash  and balances with                   3,774          10,300           15,400           22,100          30,500
other banks
Government bonds and                      5,694          10,100           16,200           23,100          30,800
treasury bills
Other accounts                            1,791           1,970            2,167            2,384            2,622
Commercial lending                       11,172          16,058           29,816           53,252          66,401
22,431          38.428           63,583          100,836         130,323
Speeis1 leans and advances
Short -term
Pre-financing, -^oads                   369            2,300            2,404            2,579           2,606
Pre-firancing, buildings              1,396            5,570            6,080            6,664           7,941
Hire-purchase, trucks                 3696             4,848            5,424            5,712           5,856
5,461          12.718           13,908           14,955          16,403
Medimm and long-term
Contractors' equipment
Foreign currency                     -               -               2,380           4,814            6,551
Local currency                       675            1,977            2,228           2,652            3,068
Mortgage loans                           968           3,281            6,113            9,066          12,164
Industrial loans
Foreign currency                     -               -               3,944          10,613           14,301
Local currency                       716            3.675            4.158           4,103            4.163
2, 3 5 9        8,_93 3         1 8, 8 2 3       31,248          40, 247
Provision for bad
and doubtful debts                                      (947)          (2,220)          (3,748)          (5,511)
Total special loans                          7,820          20.704           30,511           42,455           51,139
Equity investments                           1,571           4,905            5,731            6,646            7,736
Fixed assets                                   321             578              698              818              938
Preliminarv expenses                            93             171              109               59               59
Total assets                                32,236          64,786          100,632          150,814          190,195
Contingent liabilities                      11,369          12.506           13,756           15,132           16,645
Long-term debt/equity                          0.5              1.2             1.4              2.6              2.8
Debt/equity as per applied
definition                                    0.4             0.9              1.0              2.1              2.1
Source: BiC and mission
November 1975



GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                              NN 1
'Table 1'
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Projected Income Statements, 1975-78
(in Cedis thousands)
1974      1975       19761                1978
(actual)
Income
Interest on temporary
investmients               279       400        600        820     1,010
Interest on lending           818     5,060      6,690      7,967     9,148
Commission, etc.            _492        701        88       1,11      1,276
l,~9 6                 _,161  -8,173  9,906    11,434
Expenses
Salaries                      254       590        687        793        908
Other adm. e.xpenses          262       434        515        606        711
76      _1,024     1,202      1,399     1,bl9
Interest and chlrges on
indebtedness              591      2,716      4,170     5,606      6,476
Depreciation                   52       145        175        205        235
Preliminary expenses           42        102       122        110         60
Provision for bad debts        -         947     1,273      1,528      1,763
Contingency                    _        250        200         20         20
11201     5,1 4      7,142      8,86     10,173
Net profit                    395        977     1,031      1,038      1,261
Administrative expenseg as
% of average total assets   3.2           2.1      1.5        1.1        0.9
Net profit as % of
average net worth            13.6       14.0      10.4        8.3        9.0
Net profit as % of
year-end share capital        7.3        14.4     11.2       10.4       12.6
Scurce:  BHC and missicn
November 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 13
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
BANl FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1975-78
(in Cedis thousands)
1974             1975             1976             1977             1978
(actual)
Sources
Cash generation from operations                 489            2,171            2,601            2,881            3,319
Deposits                                     18,792           22,908           24,600           28,700           32,100
Increase in share capital                    5,400             1,400            2,400              800              -
1st bond issue                               3,182            6,818               -               -                 -
2nd bond issue                                  -                -                -             10,000              -
Foreign currency borrowings
IBRD                                        -                -              2,610            3,370             2,415
KfW                                          -                -             1,500             2,500            3,500
Others                                       -                -             2,214            4,366             2,242
Loan collections
Pre-financing
Roads                                    263              300            2,403            2,580            3,005
Buildings                              1,328            1,395            6,080            6,660            6,690
Hire-purchase, trucks                        524           1,848            2,424             2,712            2,856
Contractors' equipment
Foreign currency                         -                -                -                476              963
Local currency                           -                338              989            1,116            1,324
Mortgage loans                                11              230              428              635              851
Industrial loans
Foreign currency                         -                -                -                657            1,769
Local currency                           -                -                 72              674              689
29,989           37.408           48,331           68,125           61.723
Uses
Government securities                         5,694            4,406            5,100            6,900            7,700
Commercial lending                          11,172             4,886           13,758           23,436           13,149
Disbursement of loans
Pre-financing
Roads                                    632            2,231            2,507            2,755            3,032
Buildings                              2,724            5,569            6,590            7,244            7,967
Hire-purchase, trucks                     4,220            3,000            3,000             3,000            3,000
Contractors' equipment
Foreign currency                         -                -              2,380            2,910            2,700
Local currency                           675            1,640            1,240            1,540            1,740
Mortgage loans                               979           2,543             3,260            3,588            3,949
Industrial loans
Foreign currency                         -                -              3,944            7,326            5,457
Local currency                           716            2,959              555              619              749
Equity investments                            1,571            3,334              826              915            1,090
Repayments
IBRD                                         -                -                -               476               963
Others                                       -                -                -                657            1,769
Fixed assets                                    373              402              295              325              355
Preliminary expenses                            135              180               60               60               60
Other accounts, assets                        1,791              179              197              217              238
Other accounts, liabilities                  (4.467)            (447)            (491)            (541)            (595)
26.215           30.882          43,131            61,425           53,323
Opening cash and balances
with other banks                               -              3,774           10,300           15,400           22,100
Cash surplus                                  3,774            6.526            5,100            6,700            8,400
Ending cash and balances
with other banks                             3.774           10,300           15,400           22,100           30,500
Source: BHC and mission
November 1975



GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF DEC. 31, 1974
POAeD OF DIRECTOlS
CHAIRMAN
HSNOy SaSyerI
EOEECUTIVE COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN
H-ry Sawy-r
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Ed-d jAf,iye
Professionas   34
Oth-r         56
|EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I  Maxwel E Redu
OPEFATIONS                                                   PLANNING  OFFICCR                                                                                                     ADMINISTRATION
I~~~~~~PRT  N  OF FICE                       rPLANNING OFFICERS                                                                      FINNACEANICRE OFFICER                                         SOIANE -l(ClTORUBLICTAR
STAFF ENGINEER   ESTATE OFFICER  PLANNING |O(Bak                                     FINANCE OOFIIC                 M oF   RELATIONS OFFICER
Profess.ionl    2            Professionl    S              Profess-Nl    0                POeioas       I               Profssinal    4           Professioals   2          Professinals    I          rfsinl                   Professionals 0
Othe          0              Others        0               Others        10               Others        0                oth es      21             ofhres      I           Others         0          Otfers        24  |        otr
Total         2              Total         O               Total         10               Tota                          Total        25Ttl                                  Totl           1                                    Tt 
World Bank-9685






ANNEX 2
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Partial List of Studies Undertaken and Planned in the Transport Sector
Executed by        Financing       Timing
1. Studies Completed
Feeder road maintenance,                      BRRI                 USAID           1967/68
Transport Sector Study                        Robert Nathan        USAID           1969
& Associates
Railway tariffs                               Henderson, Hughes   ODM              1972
& Busby
PWD road maintenance operations               Crown Agents         ODM             1972/73
Management system for road maintenance        GHA Task Force        Govt.          1974/75
8-year road maintenance program               GHA Task Force       CIDA            1974/75
Railway investments and operations            Transmark            ODM             1974/75
Basic framework for highway planning          GHA Planning Division
(road classification, network analysis,       (with SWKP & BRRI)  Credit 438-GH  1974/75
traffic counts, etc.)
Vehicle operating cost study                  SWKP/EIU             Govt.           1975
Preinvestment studies for
rehabilitation works                          SWKP/EIU             Credit 438-GH  1974/75
Brief study of the domestic contracting
and quarry industries                         SWKP/EIU (with GHA  Credit 438-GH  1974/75
Planning Division)
2.  Studies Planned
Road user charges study                       GHA                  Govt.
Road/rail competition in the
Kumasi-Takoradi corridor                      GHA and MTC          Govt.
Road-building materials                       GHA and consultants Proposed Second
Highway Project
Optimum level of feeder road maintenance
and investment                                GRA and BRRI             "
Appropriate labor/equipment mix for           GHA and BRRI
selected road maintenance activities



ANNEX 3
Page 1
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Construction Industry
A.   Background
1.        The demand for new buildings and civil works has in recent years
greatly exceeded the capacity of the Ghanaian construction industry 1/ to
supply them, and this situation has hampered development efforts in some
sectors of the economy. In response to this problem, the Government in 1972
established the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) essentially to provide
financial assistance to the domestic contracting and building-materials
industries; a description of BHC and its operations is given in Annex 1.
Additionally, the Government recognizes that there is a serious lack of con-
tracting capacity and construction materials, particularly in the road sector,
and one of the objectives for development of the transport sector as stated
in the Plan Guidelines is to achieve an increase in this capacity.
Economic Setting
2.        The construction industry comprises one of the larger sectors of
the economy. During 1965-72, the amounts spent nationally on building and
other construction totalled about t143 million (USS124 million) p.a., repre-
senting about 7-1/2% of GDP, and over 60% of gross domestic fixed investment
(GDFI) (see Table 1 of this Annex). This is typical of developing countries,
where construction usually accounts for 4-8% of GDP and 55-70% of GDFI. The
value added by the construction industry in Ghana accounts for 40-45% of gross
output, compared with a range of 35-50% in other developing countries.
3.        The Government has a profound influence on the contracting industry,
since (i) it is the most important employer for the industry's output, parti-
cularly for civil works, and Government spending plans largely determine the
stability and volume of contractors' earnings; (ii) its policy on such matters
as import licensing and taxes can affect the industry's ability to develop;
and (iii) Government-owned SCC is the country's largest contractor and com-
petitor to the private sector.
4.        Private domestic contractors have made significant gains in the
past three years, for example, in the volume of roadworks contracted to
them by PWD. Nevertheless, prior to investing in additional capacity,
1/   For the purpose of this report, the term "construction industry"I
includes the contracting and building-_aterials industries.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
private industry still requires assurances of a stable, high level of future
Government demand, as well as the means to import new constrlction equipment
and spare parts. The proposed project makes provision for supplying these
necessary incentives. The services to be provided by BHC would also enable
domestic contractors to become a partner to foreign contractors, fully respon-
sive to contractual conditions normally applied to large civil works.
B.  The Contracting Industry
Building and Civil Works Contractors
5.        The former PWD was one of Ghana's main employers of contractors.
Firms were registered in four categories, namely roads, general civil engineer-
ing, special building, and general building works. In financial terms, the
firms were grouped according to their capacity to execute contracts valued
at 0250,000 or more, ¢100,000, or 025,000.  In mid-1973, the total number of
contractors registered was 445: 186 were qualified for road works 1/, 412
for general building works, and 32 for the other operations. Most of the
contractors are private, Ghanaian-owned enterprises; there are also a few
foreign firms which have been established locally for a number of years. SCC
is the largest single contractor, employing about 13,000 people, and with
capacity to execute the full range of contract works awarded by the former
PWD, as well as other miscellaneous operations. The Civil Engineering and
Building Contractors Association of Ghana (CAG) has increasingly become the
spokesman for the contracting industry. At end-1974, the Association re-
presented 198 contractors, of which 96 were registered with PWD for road
works.
6.        In 1971/72, building contractors executed about 010 million worth
of contracts in the public sector, and about 013 million in the private
sector; about 85% of this work was done by about 150 contractors engaged
by PWD, and the remainder by force account. These firms all appear to be
quite well developed, and competition among them is healthy. The quality
of work is generally satisfactory, with the main constraint being occasional
shortages of certain materials, such as a recent shortage of reinforcing
steel.
7.        In 1973, contractors received about 09.3 million in payments from
PWD for works executed in road development (excluding feeder roads). Consid-
ering the cost of certain materials supplied directly to the contractors, and
the road works awarded by other agencies (which were primarily to private
domestic contractors), the total value of road works executed in Ghana during
1973 is estimated to be about t20 million. Table 7 of the main report shows
1/   Most of these companies are either inactive in road works, or qualify
only for the lowest financial category which is now too small for most
road contracts.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
that since 1969, only one international contractor executed road works:
in addition, there is one locally-based foreign firm 1/ which has been
continuously employed by PWD, and which is still in great demand.
8.        One measure of the efficiency of a road contractor is the volume
of work he is able to execute monthly on each contract. An examination of
27 PWD projects executed in 1974 shows that SCC completed an average 030,000
per contract per month, while private domestic contractors completed between
010,000 and ¢30,000 per month on smaller contracts. By contrast, the
locally-based foreign firm completed an average 075,000 per contract per
month; this was due to (i) better job programming, which ensured that
equipment was utilized continuously; (ii) selection of contracts which
matched the contractor's equipment mix; and (iii) the use of more experienced
personnel, who were trained over time by repeated execution of contracts
of similar size and type.
9.        SCC could not be expected to achieve on average the same level of
efficiency as the abovementioned foreign contractor, since it is occasionally
constrained by Government requirements to execute certain contracts where and
when wanted, as well as by various other Government policies. However, the
performance of private domestic contractors is expected to increase signif-
icantly as a result of assistance provided under the proposed project.
Equipment Needs
10.       Ghanaian road contractors generally utilize modern technology in
executing their projects; GHA will periodically review its technical require-
ments which determine the appropriate labor/equipment mix (paras. 5.13 and
5.34). The application of modern technology to a given contract is however
frequently thwarted due to difficulties in importing equipment, lack of spare
parts, and certain management deficiencies. It is therefore imperative to
remove these bottlenecks in order to achieve efficient operations, and thereby
encourage expansion of the industry.
11.       The situation regarding importation of road equipment was parti-
cularly bad during the period 1970-73. Available statistics indicate that
equipment imports for the mining, timber, and construction industries,
declined from 09 million in 1970 to ¢5 million in 1973. Figures for 1974
will probably show some improvement, but the overall result is that much of
the existing equipment inventory is now over-age and due for replacement.
Consultants SWKP estimate, for example, that at end-1974, about one-third
of SCC's fleet was inoperative; about 70% of their equipment is at least
eight years old, and about 50% at least twelve years old. Since the SCC
fleet accounts for about half of all equipment owned by road contractors,
1/   Only the owner is of foreign nationality; day-to-day operation of the
firm is managed by Ghanaian staff.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
the above figures are estimated to be representative of the road contracting
industry as a whole. SWKP estimates that the replacement value of all road
contractors' equipment was about 040 million at end-1974, including about
913 million of items presently inoperative. It is further estimated that
the mix of existing equipment is not appropriate to the type of work to be
done, with the result that costs are higher due to work interruptions and
underutilization of certain items.
Contracting Procedures
12.       The widening gap between the demand for road works and the ability
of the contracting industry to supply them, has created a sellers' market.
This situation has resulted in increased use of the less efficient procure-
ment procedure of negotiated contracts rather than competitive bidding. The
procedure for contract negotiation has been facilitated by replacing the
Bill of Quantities by a Schedule of Rates, with the rate indicating the
negotiated price of a unit of work performed regardless of its total volume.
The schedule also enables road works to start before engineering is completed,
and with smaller allocations of funds than an efficient operation by experi-
enced contractors would normally require; under these circumstances, however,
a road contractor rarely has the opportunity to develop expertise in costing
projects, or in preparing realistic bids. Rehabilitation works under the
ongoing First Highway Project are subject to international competitive bidding,
but since foreign contractors submitted bids for at least 50% more than the
amount quoted by the domestic competitor (SCC), there is as yet no convincing
evidence that international contractors could in the long run provide addi-
tional capacity for small- and medium-sized contracts on economically accept-
able terms.
13.       The practice of competitive bidding based on a Bill of Quantities
will be reinstated as early as practicable. However, improvements in con-
tracting procedures would have to be phased in only as technical expertise
is made available to contractors, even though the expected new availability
of equipment would have markedly increased their work capacity.
14.       There is in general no shortage of unskilled labor in the country
(para. 6.03). However, domestic contractors are short of qualified staff,
although SCC's position in this respect is somewhat better than average.
Certainly, a competitive road contracting industry cannot be established
until contractors and their personnel are well trained, and until qualified
people can see the industry as an attractive employment opportunity. The
proposed project includes a significant element for training contractors'
personnel.
15.       Most of the domestic contractors engaged for road works have
been unable to acquire the equipment required without advance funding
from PWD, and their performance has been severely affected by delays in
plant acquisition and the shortage of foreign exchange. This problem could



ANNEX 3
Page 5
be alleviated with an arrangement whereby equipment could be prefinanced by
a local bank, and the proposed project includes a provision for appropriate
assistance to eligible contractors through BHC.
C.   The Road-Building Materials Industry
Laterite
16.       Until now, the main structure of most pavements has been built with
locally available laterite. However, as demand increases and resources of
good quality material become limited, alternative methods of pavement con-
struction and maintenance must be considered. The proposed project provides
for a study to investigate resources of road-building materials in relation
to estimated demand, and the economic alternatives to using laterite in road
technology.
Bitumen
17.       All bitumen used in road works is imported by Shell through the
port of Takoradi, and blended in the local area. In 1973, almost 3 million
gallons of bitumen were imported, and this amount appears to be an adequate
annual average for road needs over the next few years. In any event, this
quantity could be increased if necessary, as import licensing for procuring
bitumen has not so far been a problem. However, the distribution of bitumen
to customers inland has at times been difficult, primarily because some of
Shell's eleven tankers have been inoperative due to lack of spare parts,
and only the locally-based foreign contractor has his own bitumen tankers.
The proposed project makes provision for purchase of five tanker-trailers
to ensure the timely supply of bitumen to GHA works.
Crushed Stone
18.       A study of the local quarrying industry was carried out by SWKP
in late 1974 in response to the acute shortage of stone chippings for con-
structing and maintaining the wearing course of paved roads. This preliminary
investigation of about 20 quarries owned by GHA, SCC, BHC, and various pri-
vate firms, indicated that most crushing plants required repairs, and that
the situation was aggravated by the severe shortage of spare parts.
19.       The total current production of crushed stone can satisfy only
about half the national demand; road works alone in 1976/77 are estimated
to require as much as is now produced. In an effort to increase total quarry
output, the Government has obtained CIDA financing to procure two mobile
crushing plants for GHA, and is negotiating with Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW, Germany) for a loan to build five new quarries in different regions,
with sufficient capacity to bridge the main supply gap by mid-1978. The pro-
posed project also provides financial and technical assistance to train person-
nel and generally to improve the efficiency of existing quarries as an immediate
step toward increasing the output of crushed stone.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Construction related to Total Investment and National Income, 1965-72
(Cedis Millions)
1  2/   Construction Investment
GDFIV                    GDP -        as percentage of
Buildings and Other
Construction        Total                   GDFI       GDP
1965               155.0               265.7    1,)466.4       58.3     10.6
1966               127.6               196.5    1,518.4        6h.9      8.4
1967               120.5               174.0    1,5o4.3        69.3      8.o
1968               118.7               186.8    1,700.2        63.5      7.0
1969               125.4               195.3    2,000.7        64.2      6.3
1970               152.8               271.4    2,259.3        56.3      6.8
1971               192.5               310.7    2,501.5        62.0      7.7
1972               153.4               2)43.9    2,827.0       62.9      5.
Average               143.2               230.5    1,972.2        62.3%     7- 
/GDFI = Gross Domestic Fixed Investment, which comprises all public and private
investment including buildings, civil works, machinery, and equipment.
2/GDP = Gross Domestic Product at market price
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.
IBRD Report "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Ghana", October 18, 1974.
October 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance by BRRI to Study the Optimum Level of Feeder
Road Investment in Ghana
Outline Terms of Reference
A.   Background
1.        The requirements for reconstruction and improvement of feeder roads
were first identified in a study executed jointly by BRRI and USAID, and
completed in 1968. A subsequent study by BRRI over 1972-74 identified mainte-
nance needs for selected roads. Both studies recognized the lack of adequate
knowledge of the relationship between construction of feeder roads and develop-
ment of agricultural and socio-economic activity.
B.   Objective and Approach of the Proposed Study
2.        The primary objective of the study would be to determine the optimum
economic density of feeder roads in relation to particular regional production
zones, and to provide the required planning input into a GHA program for
execution of the maintenance and improvement works identified. The study
would be undertaken in two phases with a duration of 12 and 24 months respec-
tively.
Phase I
3.        Under this first phase, the experts would:  (i) collect basic agri-
cultural and socio-economic data on all the districts in the country; (ii)
make preliminary assessments of the need for feeder roads in various dis-
tricts; (iii) work in cooperation with G.A on its inventory of feeder roads;
and (iv) define the areas for intensive investigation under Phase II, and the
methodology for studying them.
4.        Data and estimates provided by the Ministry of Agriculture would be
used to measure the following parameters for each district:
(a) population distribution and density (1970 census);
(b) volume and farm-gate value of major agricultural crops, and
percentage of crops marketed;
(c) agricultural potential of each district, based on geographic
and climatic conditions and on development plans: and
(d) other agricultural and socio-economic parameters considered
appropriate.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        The experts would interview regional agriculturists to evaluate their
experience with the existing network. Information would be sought, for example,
on the maximum distances which farmers have to headload or animal carry a
particular crop. The distribution of distances from farm to feeder road would
be evaluated using maps in a scale of 1:50,000.
6.        The experts would investigate basic relationships at the district
level, for example, present and potential production of major crops per mile
of feeder road; production per capita; miles of feeder road per square mile
of land area, etc. They would also review existing literature on feeder roads
in Ghana, and establish liaison with other feeder road investigations which may
be in progress ir. Ghana or elsewhere.
7.        Preliminary recommendations on the optimum density of feeder roads
would be made for the following crop areas:
(a)  cocoa area                -    high rainfall forest zone
(b)  oil-palm area             -    high rainfall forest zone
(c)  annual crop area          -    lower rainfall savannah zone.
Preliminary recommendations would be made to GHA for preparing guidelines for
feeder road improvement and maintenance.
8.        The experts would work in cooperation with GBIA on the country-wide
inventory of feeder roads to be carried out. This inventory is expected to
provide information on the size and condition of the present network, and on
the costs of required improvement and maintenance works.
9.        The experts would identify regions for intensive investigation during
Phase II of the study, and prepare detailed terms of reference.
Phase II
10.       Under this phase, selected regions would be monitored for two
years. The impact of feeder-roads would be isolated to the extent feasible
from the impact of agricultural programs and other development inputs to these
regions. This investigation may also include a region where an intensive agri-
cultural development program is underway, and a control region where only
feeder road investment is taking place. After evaluating the data obtained
with the monitoring system, the experts would make recommendations on the
level of maintenance and the type of investment in the selected regions, and
on criteria for establishing relative priorities among feeder road require-
ments in other regions. These recommendations and criteria are expected to
help the Government update and implement its national rural development
programs, and would also help GHA to define the second four-year phase of its
road maintenance program.






GHANA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ghana Highway Authority
ORGANIZATION CHART
B 9OARD OF DIRECTORS
L I
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
I   LEGAL   .   RELATIONS
|   OFFICE    _                 ~~~~~~OFFICE
A X S              I                  INA PI IAl
DIV,S  VISION  OIVIsION  OIVISI  D  SON  OVISION ONN  BIVISIONS
IAoR E-nk-R826(R)






Nt ,-   >  >   '°oo I V  O     R    Y  C    O    A    S     T
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  .......... .      |. ..... .I_
{)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
>             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~



