CONFORMED COPY
9
CREDIT NUMBER 594 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 23, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 594 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 23, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of Part A of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement (Second Highway Project) of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project, and, by the Loan
Agreement, the Bank agrees to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000) (hereinafter called the
Loan);
(C)   Canada, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
and the United Nations Development Programme have agreed to contribute towards
the financing of technical assistance required for the carrying out of the Project
(hereinafter collectively called the Joint Loans); and
(D)  The Association is willing, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Credit available upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Section 2.01, paragraph (a), is amended to read:


﻿4
"The term Project means the project for which the Credit is granted,
as described in Part A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (Second Highway
Project) between Republic of Ghana and the Bank and as the description
thereof may be amended from time to time."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to
this Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the term "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower, the Association and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of' the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for Part A of the Project to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement,
and any action by the Bank contemplated by such Schedule shall, if and to the
extent required for the purposes of this Agreement. be deemed to have been taken
simultaneously by the Association, unless such Schedule expressly requires the
agreement of the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on   each  June 15 and   December 15
commencing June 15, 1986, and ending December 15, 2025, each installment to
and including the installment payable on December 15, 1995, to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1  ) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Provisions of the Loan Agreement
Section 3.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of
Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06 and 4.02 through 4.06 of the Loan Agreement
with the same force and effect as if they were expressly stipulated between the
Borrower and the Association and fully set forth herein, and, except as the
Association may otherwise agree, the force and effect of such provisions under
this Agreement shall not be affected by the termination of the Loan Agreement
in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Loan Agreement or any provision of Sections
1.02, 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06 and 4.02 through 4.06 of, and of Schedules
1, 2 and 4 to, the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6,02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿6
(a)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement.
(b)   The Ghana Highway Authority Decree, 1974 (N.R.C.D. 298) shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and
adversely affect the financial condition or the operations of GHA.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of GHA or for the
suspension of its operations.
(d)   The right of the Borrower to use any of the proceeds of the Joint
Loans shall have been suspended or terminated due to a default on the part of
the Borrower or GHA, unless the Borrower shows to the satisfaction of the
Association that adequate financing is available in such form and currency or
currencies as shall be required to meet the shortfall resulting from such suspension
or termination.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, that any event specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery
of the Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date February 23, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿7
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.0 1. The Senior Principal Secretary, the Principal Secretary, Control
Division, and the Director of Budget, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are
each individually designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M76
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s / Samuel E. Quarm
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s I E. Peter Wright
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


