Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17652-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
April 15, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lek (Average Commercial Rates)
Avg.     Avg.    Avg.       Avg.     Avg.    Avg.        Feb.
1992     1993     1994      1995     1996    1997        1998
US$1.00=    75.1      102.1    94.7     93.3     101.8   146.8        156.3 Leks
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIA: FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ANALTIR             Albanian Organization Dealing with International Transport
BOT                 Build, Operate and Transfer
ERA                 Enterprise Restructuring Agency
EU                  European Union
GDC                 General Directorate of Customs
GOA                 Government of Albania
GRD                 General Roads Directorate
HMO                 H:arbor Master's Office
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
MPWT                Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MITT                Ministry of Industiy, Transport & Trade
OPEC Fund           The OPEC Fund for International Development
PDA                 Port of Dures Authority
PIP                 Public Investment Plan
PMU  -              Project Management Unit
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
TOR                 Terms of Reference
Vice President             Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director          Arntraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Sector Director           Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Responsible Staff          Peter Parker (Task Team Leader), Marc Juhel (Sr. Port Oper. Spec.), Valbona
Kullakshi (Project Officer), Takao Ikegami (Procurement Specialist), Kanthan
Shankar (Environmental Specialist), Zvi Ra'anan (Consultant) & Francois
Boulanger (Consultant)



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Albania
Guarantor:               Not Applicable
Implementing Agencies:   Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT) and the Port
of Durres Authority (PDA)
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT) and the Port
of Durres Authority (PDA)
Poverty:                 Not Applicable
Amount:                  SDR 12.6 million (US$17.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:          0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:         Not Applicable
Financing Table:         Schedule A
Net Present Vallue:      US$17.7 million at 10% discount rate
Project Objectives:      The objective of the project is to improve the efficiency and
effective capacity of the Port of Durres, taking environmental
considerations into account, by: (i) increasing the commercial
orientation of the Port of Durres through establishing an
autonomous port, privatizing operations, improving Customs
procedures, operations and safety; and (ii) rehabilitating port
infrastructure to accommodate anticipated traffic demand and
attract transit traffic.
Project Description:     The project includes: (i) port civil works, i.e. breakwater
reconstruction, berth strengthening and resurfacing, warehouse
and office refurbishing (IJS$11.4 million); (ii) provision or
rehabilitation of port equipment: navigation aids, port
lighting, cranes, anti-pollution equipments and miscellaneous



ii
materials (US$8.6 million); (iii) physical improvements
required for Customs modernization (US$0.5 million); (iv)
secondary ports development, dredging and oil pollution
emergency plan, and urban transport studies (US$1.0 million);
(v) technical assistance for the privatization process and for
project supervision, and training of port staff (US$1.5 million).
Benefits and Risks:        The assistance provided under the project in reorganizing the
Port of Durres' activities and institutions on a market basis and
rehabilitating transport infrastructure is expected to contribute
significantly to improving transport efficiency, reducing costs
and meeting transport demand. The main quantified benefits
include reductions in ship waiting time, reduction of damage
to port cargo, lower cargo handling costs and increased
revenue from ship dues. Unquantified benefits include
improvement of safety and environmental protection.
One risk is that GOA would fail to implement agreed
institutional reforms, i.e., reduce staff and privatize most of the
operations, adopt appropriate Port Authority regulations, or
create a fiscal zone. However, the Port of Durres Authority
and Ministry of Public Works and Transport have already
established an autonomous port, privatized some port
operations, and transfered the Harbor Master's Office to
civilian control.  GOA  appears fully committed to the
economic reform process of which this project is an integral
part. A second risk is that traffic would fail to develop as
forecast. The Albanian economy is in transition, and a number
of heavy industries remain closed and their outlook is
incertain. However, even under low traffic assumptions, the
economic return for the project is estimated to be 13 percent.
Taking those considerations into account, project risks are
considered to be acceptable. The additional risk of political
instability cannot be assessed.
Project ID:                AL-PA-40818



iii
Estimated Costs (US$ million)
Local       Foreign      Total
Component
(a) Civil Works                    3.5           4.6        8.1
(b) Navigation Aids                0.0           0.2        0.2
(c) Lightings                      0.0           0.5        0.5
(d) Warehouses                     0.7           0.8         1.5
(e) Cranes                         0.0           5.9        5.9
(f) Anti-Pollution Actions         0.0           0.4        0.4
(g) Customs Modernization          0.2           0.2        0.4
(h) Miscellaneous Equipment        0.0           0.4        0.4
(i) Studies                       0.15          0.85         1.0
() Technical Assistance           0.15          0.85         1.0
(j) Training                       0.0           0.4        0.4
Project Base Cost               4.7          151         19.8
Continigencies
Physical (12% CW, 10% Eqt)      0.6           1.4         2.0
Price (6%)                      0.3           0.9         1.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 5.6          17.4       23.0
Financing Plan (US$ million equivalent)
Local          Foreign       Total
Government             1.0               -           1.0
IDA                4.6            12.4          17.0
OPEC                  -             5.0           5.0
Total               5.6           17.4          23.0
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year     1998       1999        2000        2001         2002         2003
Annual          2.0         5.5        4.5          3.0          1.0          1.0
Cumulative        2.0         7.5       12.0         15.0         16.0         17.0
...........                  .    . ...... . .- -   . . .... .. .. . 
Percentage        12         44          71          88           94           100



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER ............................................. ........................................................... PAGE No.
I. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. BACKGROUND ....................
B. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................1
C. PREVIOUS IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR             .4
II. PORTS
A. GENERAL .5
B. PORT OF DURRES.                                                               6
C. PRIVATIZATION OF PORT OPERATIONS                     .0
III. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT CBJECTIVES .12
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .12
C. COST ESTIMATE .15
D. FINANCING PLAN .16
E. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION .17
F. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING                       .18
G. PROCUREMENT                                 .19
H. DISBURSEMtENT .22
1. ENVIRONMENT .23
J. REPORTING, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING .24
IV. PORT FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. SOURCES OF REVENUE .25
B. PRESENT FINANCIAL SITUATION .26
C. EFFECT OF PRIVATIZING OPERATIONS .27
D. ADDITIONAL INVESTMENTS .28
F. FINANCIAL FORECASTS AND TARGETS .28
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. BACKGROUND .......                                                           29
B. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS .......                                                30
C. PROJECT RISKS .......                                                        32
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......                                         33
TABLES
1.1 INVESTMENT EXPENDITURES (US$000 EQUIVALENT), 1992-1996.                     3
3.1 PROJECT COMPONENT AND COST ESTIMATES                   .15
3.2 FINANCING PLAN (US$ MILLION, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES) .17
3.3 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (US$ MILLION, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES) .20
3.4 DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES .22
4.1 FINANCIAIL RESULTS OF PDA AND HMO, 1993-1996 .27
5.1 RESULTS OF THE ECONOMIC EVALUATION .31



ANNEXES
1.1 FREIGHT AND PASSENGER TRANSPORT BY THE PUBLIC SECTOR, 1993-1996
1.2 EVOLUTION OF THE ROAD VEHICLE FLEET 1990-96
1.3 AIR TRANSPORT ACTIVITY AT RINAS AIRPORT, 1993-97
1.4 CROSS-BORDER ROAD TRAFFIC, 1996
1.5 TIRANA URBAN TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENTS STUDY, TERMS OF REFERENCE
2.1 ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
2.2 TRAFFIC THROUGH THE PORT OF DURRES, 1993-97
2.3 PDA PRIVATIZATION AND MANPOWER ACTION PLAN
3.1 PROJECT COORDINATOR (TERMS OF REFERENCE)
3.2 SUPERVISION OF REHABILITATION WoRKs (TERMS OF REFERENCE)
3.3 SECONDARY PORTS DEVELOPMENT STUDY (TERMS OF REFERENCE)
3.4 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF DURRES PORT
3.5 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
3.6 PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
3.7 ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
3.8 TECHNICAL COOPERATION IN PRIVATIZING PORT OPERATIONS, TERMS OF REFERENCE
3.9 PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
4.1 DURRES PORT FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS, REVENUE AND EXPENSE ACCOUNTS, 1997-2003
4.2 DURRES PORT FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS, 1997-2003, FUND FLOW
5.1 AVERAGE GROWTH TRAFFIC FORECAST, 1997-2001
5.2 ECONOMIC EVALUATION - PROJECT AS PROPOSED
5.3 ECONOMIC EVALUATION - PROJECT WITHOUT INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
5.4 ECONOMIC EVALUATION - PROJECT AS PROPOSED, WORST TRAFFIC SCENARIO
5.5 NOTES ON THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
MAPS
IBRD No. 28506



][. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01  Albania emerged from one of the harshest communist regimes in the early 1990s,
increasing its per capita income from $310 in 1992 to $800 in 1996 (Atlas methodology),
supported by impressive progress in macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms.
However, a fragmented social structure with weak allegiance to the nation state, coupled
with unrealistic expectations of a rapid catch up on the economic front, created
conditions for massive social unrest. These were triggered by the collapse of pyramid
schemes in early 1997. Liabilities from this collapse reached an estimated one-half of
1996 GDP. The arrival of a multi-national protection force in April 1997, the formation
of a new Government in July, the restoration of security in many areas, and the rapid
mobilization of assistance by external donors, have subsequently led to some measure of
stability. The immediate challenge for the new Government is to put the country back on
the path of sustained private sector-led growth, including further fiscal consolidation,
completion of the structural reform agenda, and the provision of basic infrastructure.
1.02  Despite rehabilitation works carried out during the early 1990s, most of Albania's
infrastructure remains in poor condition, which is a significant constraint to implementing
the stabilization program and promoting economic development. The country's main port
and airport both require rehabilitation. The main road network is in significantly worse
condition than elsewhere in post-Communist Europe. About one-third of the population
is effectively cut off from markets because rural roads are in such poor condition. About
400 municipalities cannot be reached by telephone. Electricity outages are still frequent.
The water supply is unreliable, affecting production and public health. Overcoming
infrastructure bottlenecks at Albania's main port is the objective of the proposed project.
1.03  Albania has also been implementing a successful privatization program during the
last several years. Following privatization of state farms and cooperative land, the previous
government foc used on the sale of small- and medium-sized enterprises. Currently, only a
few of these enterprises remain public. The project supports the privatization of operations
at the Port of Durres.
B. The Transport Sector
1.04  System and Infrastructure. The transport system is based on: (i) a road
network of about 16,000 km; (ii) a rail network of 447 km of main lines and 230 km of
secondary lines, which are standard gauge, and none are double track or electrified; (iii)
the main port of Durres with 2,563 m of quays, and the secondary ports of Vlore, Sarande
and Shengjin (para. 2.02) which are described in Chapter II; (iv) inland navigation on the
Drin river; and (v) an international airport at Tirana (Rinas) with a 2,700 m runway The
transport system is generally adequate in extent, but much of it is still in poor condition
despite rehabilitation carried out during the last several years.



-2-
1.05  Sector Transformation. Prior to 1991, the Government emphasized transport by
railways, and goods were moved to or from the railhead by a fleet of small, publicly
owned trucks. Private automobiles and commercial road transport were forbidden, and
there was little international transport. Market reforms have had a dramatic effect on
transport demand. Railway freight traffic fell from 6.6 million tons in 1990 to 521,000
tons in 1996 due primarily to the closure of uneconomic mines and heavy industries, and
the liberalization of road transport (Annex 1.1). Distances are relatively short in Albania,
which, coupled with the development of small-scale agricultural and commercial
activities and transport deregulation, has favored the development of road transport.
From a low base, the number of registered automobiles has grown 30-fold and the
number of trucks and buses four-fold since 1990. The road fleet totaled about 114,540
vehicles in 1996 (Annex 1.2), and is expected to continue growing at around 12 percent
p.a. in the near future. Even considering the remaining public sector trucking fleet, six
times as much freight was moved by road as by rail in 1996. Traffic at the port of Durres
recovered to about 1.17 million tons in 1996 (990,000 tons of conventional traffic plus
180,000 tons of ferry traffic), about the same total traffic as in 1992. The number of
scheduled airline passengers at Rinas Airport has tripled since 1992, reaching 283,013 in
1996 (Annex 1.3). Road transit traffic is also growing, with around 600,000 road
vehicles entering or leaving Albania in 1996 (Annex 1.4).
1.06 The Government has taken a number of steps since 1991 to establish market-based
policies in the transport sector, with the objective of harmonizing transport regulations
with those of the European Union (EU). The road vehicle fleet, formerly owned almost
exclusively by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT, formnerly organized
as the Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade, and Ministry of Construction and
Tourism) and other ministries, is now 90 percent privatized. Truck transport and
interurban bus transport are significantly deregulated. Road transport issues which
remain to be addressed include further improving the road financing system, vehicle
overloading, high road accident rates, air pollution due largely to vehicle emissions,
emerging congestion in Tirana, and insufficient fees charged to transit vehicles to cover
road damage.   Other issues include strengthening MPWT  and other transport
organizations, assisting the Albanian organization dealing with international transport
(ANALTIR), and further reducing the regulations of interurban bus transport. Initial
advice on these matters was provided by a transport adviser financed under the Transport
Project, and this is being followed up in part by advisers financed by The Netherlands. A
road safety program and improvements in road financing were initiated under the
Transport Project and Rural Roads Project. Old trucks of Eastern European origin with
high axle loads, fuel consumption and pollution are being replaced with newer, more
efficient vehicles.
1.07  Intra-urban buses are owned by the municipalities and subsidized by the central
government. Consultants have recommended clarifying the division of responsibilities
between central and local governments, reorganizing the Tirana Bus Company,
concessioning some operations, improving the remaining operations, and increasing



-3-
tariffs, with a view to preparing a PHARE financed technical assistance project. MPWT
is presently reviewing these options. However, no significant work has been done on the
streets in Tirana, which are becoming a significant problem. Albania's automobile
population has exploded from about 2,000 to 60.000 during the last five years, streets are
deteriorating and congested, Tirana has no experience in traffic engineering, and air
pollution is increasing to unacceptable levels. The project, therefore, includes an urban
transport study, focusing on traffic improvement measures and the rehabilitation of streets
in Tirana. Draft Terms of Reference for the Tirana Urban Transport Improvements Study
are shown in Annex 1.5.
1.08   The Government investigated the future role of the railways under the Transport
Project, which is also helping finance the rehabilitation of the Durres - Tirana rail line.
Albania Railways has reduced its staff and curtailed services to more closely correspond
to current traffic levels. The Government signed an agreement with a German company to
rehabilitate the main airport at Rinas under a build, operate and transfer (BOT)
arrangement. Reconstruction of the main runway started in late 1996.
1.09 Investments. The Government invested only about US$6.0 million per annum in
transport and communications during 1986-90, and virtually no infrastructure
maintenance was carried out prior to 1994.  As a consequence, most transport
infrastructure is in poor or fair condition, and roads, ports and the Rinas airport in
particular are not capable of adequately handling the volume of traffic which is currently
offered. The Government has begun to address this problem by increasing transport
investments beginning in about 1994 within the limit of its financial capacity:
Table L.1 Investment Expenditures (USSOOO equivalent). 1992-1996
1992         1993          1994         1995        1996 (est)
Road               1,750        1,530         7,700        19,270       35,300
Rail                260           290          447         5,120         3,300
Ports               700           970         1,010        2,290         5,000
Airports             ---O---                     0            10         6,700
Others              ---           200         1,710        3,310          n/a.
TOTAL              2,710        2,990         10,867       30,000       50,300
1.10  The Bank has been assisting the Government to prepare a rolling Public
Investment Plan (PIP) during the last three years. The 1996-98 PIP notes that substantial
increases in public sector investment are required to develop Albania's inadequate
infrastructure, which is an impediment to economic development. It notes that external
financing of the PIP is expected to become much more significant, as implementation
gets under way on the large number of infrastructure projects for which financing has
been recently secured. The PIP recommends total investments of US$1,191 million
during 1996-98, of which US$896 million would be financed externally and US$295
million domestically. Based on an assessment of sectoral priorities, the PIP recommends
that US$303 million (26 percent) of this amount be allocated to transport during 1996-98.



-4-
Considering the high economic rates of return currently estimated for most transport
investments, and the fact that the actual pace of investments will be largely determined by
the availability of concessionary foreign financing, the 1996-98 transport investment
program is considered to be reasonable.
C. Previous IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector
1.11    The first project in Albania, the Critical Imports Project (Credit 2404-ALB,
1992), financed port equipment and spare parts, 20 urban buses, and a small amount of
railway communications equipment as an immediate response to critical needs. The
ongoing Transport Project (Credit 2499-ALB, US$18.0 million IDA, US$8.0 million
Kuwait Fund, 1993) seeks to accommodate the increase in road traffic, rehabilitate and
commercialize the port of Durres, and assess the role of the railways. It includes the
improvement of 84 km of main roads, equipment for the Tirana road maintenance district,
repair of quays and port surfaces and provision of equipment for the port of Durres, the
rehabilitation of rail tracks, and technical assistance and studies. Project implementation
was, until March 1997, generally satisfactory, with some delays resulting from the transfer
of the General Roads Directorate (GRD) from the Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade
to the Ministry of Construction and Tourism and slow decision making by the Executive
Secretariat of the Project Management Unit (PMU). The Government has significantly
increased the road maintenance budget as agreed under the project. An Albanian/Italian
joint venture (Albinfrastrukture) resulting from the privatization of the state-owned National
Roads Asphalting Enterprise is working successfully under the project, competitive bidding
procedures for the procurement of works and equipment are being applied with good
results, and all buses (except urban lines) and most truck companies have been privatized
with the assistance of project advisers. However, due to collapse of public order from
March through August 1997, the implementation and management of the project was
significantly disrupted. Several contractors installations were damaged. All foreign
contractors and advisors left Albania, but most had returned as of October 1997. Working
conditions are still not fully normal (new managers in most positions, low salaries, lack of
familiarity with IDA projects, slow provision of counterpart funds), but the Government is
taking reasonable steps to resolve remaining problems.
1.12 The Rural Roads project (Credit 2732-ALB, US$15.0 million IDA, US$16.2
million Italy, US$3.6 million Government, 1995) aims at promoting agricultural
development by rehabilitating and maintaining rural roads serving agricultural areas, and at
improving access to economic and social services for rural population centers. It also
focuses on reducing poverty and increasing employment through the use of labor intensive
methods. It includes rehabilitation and upgrading of 975 km of rural roads, improvement of
rural road administration, provision of transport equipment, and a study of the future
organization and management of the rural roads network. Project implementation has
started well, but was similarly paralyzed for about nine months by the Spring 1997 events.
While problems remain, the Government has appointed a new project coordinator, and work
has resumed on 17 rural roads contracts.



-5-
1.13 The National Roads Project (Credit 2888-ALB, US$25.0 million IDA, US$5.0
million from the Government of Albania (GOA), US$9.0 million Italy, US$12.0 million
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), US$8.0 million Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development, US$7.0 million European Union (Phare) 1996),
seeks to overcome a key infrastructure bottleneck to economic development by
rehabilitating and constructing national roads; to improve the maintenance and safety of
national roads; to promote the development of the local contracting and consulting
industries; and to train GRD's staff and develop strong cooperation between GRD and the
University of Tirana. The project became effective on January 6, 1997, but the Spring
1997 events delayed implementation of the project by about six months and disrupted the
approval of project cofinancing. Following a meeting of cofinanciers in November 1997,
processing of cofinanciers projects has resumed. The project coordinator has also
resumed his work in Albania.
1.14 The main lesson learned from ongoing projects is the importance of keeping project
objectives and scope simple so as not to exceed the limited absorptive capacity of Ministry
and other local staff. This lesson has been taken into account in the design of the project.
II. PORTS
A. General
2.01  The port subsector is under the authority of the Department of Transport
Development (Annex 2.1). Its authority includes every aspect of port activities:
infrastructure management, handling, storage, and delivery of cargo. Harbor Master
activities such as maritime traffic control currently are the responsibility of the Navy
(para. 2.04) The Navy also carries out hydrographic surveys in port access channels, and
manages the navigation aids along the coastline and the beacon network for ports access.
2.02 Albania has four ports: Durres (located 40 km west of Tirana), Vlore (90 km
south of Durres), Sarande (160 km south of Durres), and Shengjin (60 km north of
Durres). Durres handles 90 percent of the country's international maritime traffic. It has
9/10 berths (2,000 m) with a draught from 7.5 to 11.5 m. Its 2.5 km dredged entrance
channel is 8.5 m deep, and the tide never exceeds 0.30 m. With these conditions, the port
can accommodate vessels up to 25,000 dead weight tons (dwt). Two/three berths are
dedicated to bulk traffic, the other seven/eight handle break-bulk and general cargo. The
port operates 30 electric quay cranes (5 to 15 tons, plus one 40 ton) and four 10-ton
bridge cranes. The second port of the country, Vlore, offers three berthing places which
are each 100 m long and five to nine meters deep. One berth is equipped with two
electric quay cranes of 5-tons capacity, 40 years old, transferred from the port of Durres
20 years ago. Vlore is also the most important fishing port of the country. Before 1992
the Governmernt invested heavily in Vlore, but these investments were discontinued
before becoming operational following the change in economic policy. Roughly 1,700 m
of new breakwaters have already been built to date, and the area devoted to fishing boats



-6-
is now available for sheltering. To complement this project, there are plans to convert the
existing port into a passenger terminal for ferries and a facility for leisure boats and sea
tourism. The future role of the new port at Vlore has yet to be defined, because of its
closeness to Durres, and needs further investigation as new traffic patterns develop.
PHARE plans to finance a master plan for the port of Vlore, while the role of the two
other secondary ports (Sarande and Shengjini) will be investigated under a Secondary
Ports Development Study to be carried out under the project.
B. Port of Durres
Corporate Structure and Management
2.03  In each port, Port Management answers to the Department of Transport
Development of the MPWT, and manages all port activities, operations, and maintenance.
The main activity is cargo handling and storage operations, followed by ship calls
management. Infrastructure management appears neglected, mainly because of lack of
financial means, but also because all planning decisions must be cleared at the central
ministerial level, causing considerable delay. Strictly speaking, port management lacks
any commercial function, since tariff decisions were formerly handled by the
Government. However, after the 1990 change of regime, and mainly because of the
weakening of the central administrative power, the port authority had to establish case by
case agreements with several port users that were applying for special tariffs and in other
matters. The General Law for State Enterprises of August 1992 applies to the ports and
provides for the establishment of a Local Port Council responsible for port operational
structure, development planning, and staff management. A Government Decree
establishing an autonomous port authority in Durres was approved by the Council of
Ministers on December 9, 1996. However, a Statute establishing a Joint Stock Company
and complementary Port Regulations governing the relationship between the
Government, the port and port users are required to assure the commercial independence
and provide a regulatory framework for the port. These were discussed and a first draft
prepared at a Port Regulation Workshop held on January 27, 1998. The Statute
establishing a Joint Stock Company and complementary regulations approved at
the level of the Port of Durres and MPWT were discussed and agreed at
negotiations. Approval of the Statute establishing a Joint Stock Company and
appointment of the members of its Supervisory Council, and approval of the Port
Regulations, would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
2.04  Other port services are given by the Harbor Master' Office (HMO) which is
responsible for navigational safety in the port, two privatized pilot companies who
provide pilotage and mooring services, a maritime service company which supplies tugs,
launches and floating crane, as well as maintaining depths by means of its dredges (since
sunk), and a private contractor who provides garbage disposal services. While the sea
channel is under the authority of the Port of Durres Authority (PDA), subordinated to
MPWT, navigational aids and the authority to move ships falls under the responsibility of
the HMO, subordinated until recently to the Ministry of Defense. This pattern has led to



-7-
conflicts between the Harbor Master and PDA. A law placing the Harbor Master's Office
under MPWT was decided by the People's Assembly and decreed on January 21, 1998.
Staffing
2.05  The Port of Durres employed 1,520 people at the end of 1997, roughly divided
into 1,200 for handling activities, 200 for workshop activities, and 120 administrative
staff. The high level administrative staff includes 14 engineers, 13 accountants, and 12
port officers. Considering the structure and average level of traffic about 1.0 million tons
in 1996, 55 percent of which is bulk cargo, the port is overstaffed. The average
productivity per worker stands around 800 tons p.a., far below common rates of 2,000-
5,000 tons for ports with little or no container traffic, or over 10,000 tons where there is a
large ferry or container component. A workforce reduction program actually started in
1997, and 40 staff already left under its provisions. The port workforce will be further
significantly reduced under the project as discussed below.
Budgeting and Accounting Functions
2.06 Port Cargo Services. These activities include loading and unloading, storage and
delivery of cargo and are directly managed by PDA. It has its own operating budget and
an accounting system based on the accrual method. Being a state-owned public
enterprise, PDA prepares quarterly financial reports and compares actual performance to
the budget. PDA's annual capital and operating budgets are prepared by port management
and require approval by MPWT. Once approved, the Port Manager has a fair amount of
leeway in its execution.
2.07  PDA uses a commercially oriented accounting system for its cargo services. It
closes its accounts quarterly, and prepares its balance sheet, profit and loss accounts and
associated schedules. It compares, wherever applicable, actuals with the budget and with
prior years' figures. PDA's Financial Department invoices and collects directly from its
clients, maintains its own bank account and uses these resources to finance its operating
expenses directly. PDA is also allowed to periodically update its tariffs to keep in step
with inflation. PDA has a qualified internal controller accountable directly to the Port
manager.
2.08  Ship Services. These activities include provision of navigation aids, channels and
berthing facilities for ships, pilotage, towage, and channel maintenance. Pilotage is paid
for directly by vessel operators to one of two privatized pilot companies at maximum
tariffs fixed by MPWT. Towage is provided and charged by a parastatal company.
Budgetary and accounting functions relating to the latter two activities are therefore not
relevant to project finances. Vessel dues, however, are collected by the HMO and
remitted to the Ministry of Finance. Harbor Master costs were part of the Defense
Ministry's budget and calculated at 2 percent of ship dues collected, as discussed in
Chapter 3. As these dues are supposed to represent recovery of channel and breakwater
costs, MPWT will need to keep careful accounting of this source of revenue and suitable



-8-
budgetary adjustments made with the Finance Ministry. As far as port infrastructure
management is concerned, the port authority can only draw on its own or MPWT
revenues, which is one reason why infrastructure maintenance has been neglected in the
past.
2.09  Auditing. The concept and activities of independent professional auditing, that
is, the verification and certification of accounts by public or professional accountants or
auditors, was virtually non-existent in Albania in the past. A few nascent independent
external auditing companies have recently been established, and the Ministry of Finance
is assisting with training. As for project accounts, the Government relies at present on the
basic functions of checking and inspection by designated staff within each Ministry. In
order to assure quality and reasonable cost, the IDA and the Government employed a
single foreign auditing company to audit the project accounts for all ongoing IDA
operations. It is expected that this arrangement would be applied to the present project
and extended to cover the PDA accounts which would also be audited under the project.
Traffic, Operations and Maintenance
2.10 Traffic. Albanian maritime traffic through the port of Durres increased from 2.0
million tons in 1970 to a peak 2.8 million tons in 1988. However, transport demand has
changed dramatically since then as a result of the economic transformation. Traffic
through Durres declined from its 1988 peak to 840,000 tons in 1992 due primarily to the
falloff in uneconomic mining and industrial activities. From 1992 to 1994, bulk traffic
(except grain) then increased by 57 percent, general cargo traffic grew 32 percent, and the
importation of grain, mostly emergency food amounting to 327,000 tons in 1992, fell by
80 percent. However, ferry services at the ports of Durres, Vlore and Sarande increased
from 3-4 ship calls per month in 1992 to 5-6 calls per day by 1995. About 330,000 tons
of freight moved by RoRo ferries in 1995 so that total port traffic increased during that
year to 950,000 tons. Transit traffic through and to/from Macedonia is developing.
Container traffic is also growing rapidly from a low base (1,000 imported TEUs in 1994
to 1,500 in 1996). PDA needs to adapt to these changing traffic patterns. While 1995
witnessed a strong growth in the ferry traffic, combined with an overall stagnation of the
conventional traffic, 1996 has seen some revival of the latter and some slowing down of
the former: total port traffic reached close to 1.2 million tons in 1996 --a 19 percent
increase over 1995-- but with a distribution conventional/ferry closer to 85/15 compared
to 66/34 in 1995. Exports are driven by chromium ore and ferrochrome, which almost
recovered their 1994 level after a 50 percent drop in 1995, and the resumption of coal
exports gains momentum with a 50 percent increase in 1996. Imports of grain too are
increasing significantly, as are sugar and fertilizers (a 75 percent and 44 percent increase
in 1996 for these two). A flow of containers on conventional ships is also developing on
the Istanbul-Izmir-Durres itinerary. The 1997 traffic, despite the disturbing events of the
spring, does not seem to have suffered significantly from this situation, the first ten
months suggesting only a 3 percent drop. Traffic statistics are shown in Annex 2.2.



-9-
2.11   Operations. The port of Durres has not experienced any real capacity problem,
and is not likely to run into any in the near future, as far as infrastructure is concerned,
provided that basic rehabilitation and maintenance requirements are met. However,
equipment for general cargo handling is generally in very poor condition. The Port
Master Plan study identified 12 cranes to be scrapped and another 12 in need of
rehabilitation; the rehabilitation of seven cranes and the purchase of five new ones are
included in the project.  Furthermore, should higher traffic levels materialize, port
throughput can be easily increased through improved cargo handling productivity.
Rehabilitation of existing equipment and change in working practices could increase bulk
cargo handling capacity to about 3.0 million tons p.a., and general cargo handling
capacity to 1.4 million tons p.a. (against an all time 1988 peak of 667,000 tons) under a
conservative estimate of 1,000 tons per linear meter per annum. There is therefore
significant room for additional throughput provided the handling equipment is available
and operations are efficient. Since the spring disturbances resulted in losses of all
handling equipment spare parts, the project also includes financing a new set of spares for
cranes and yard equipment.
2.12  As of today, due to deficient port equipment, ineffective working practice, and
cumbersome administrative procedures --in particular customs-- ships often waste
considerable time lying idle at the dock or waiting to proceed to the berths. This situation
began to be addressed under the Transport Project, through a technical assistance
component which helped port managers to improve port operations somewhat, in
particular truck and railcar movements, and staff discipline. Operational indicators show
that over the last three years, PDA managed to substantially reduce the number of vessels
forced to wait: from 73 ships in 1993, with an average 50 percent idle time at berth, to 38
ships in 1995. However, 7 percent of non-ferry ships still have to wait an average of 29
hours until operations can start. This is clearly unwarranted, given existing port capacity.
The technical assistance included in the project will continue addressing these
administrative end regulatory issues, while the privatization of cargo handling operations
and warehousing, supported under the project, should contribute to an improvement of
operational prodluctivity.
2.13   At present, Customs procedures impede the efficient operation of the port because
customs clearance must take place before ships can be discharged or subsequently leave
the port. This procedure was changed for ferry traffic by creating a fiscal zone at the
ferry terminal, i.e. the ferries now unload and leave and customs clearance occurs
thereafter. The success of the project is contingent upon the extension of this fiscal zone
to the entire port area. The Ministry of Finance's General Directorate of Customs (GDC)
expressed it's concern that the port is not sufficiently secure to extend the fiscal zone.
PDA has now c onstructed a fence, which however still needs to be extended beyond the
ferry terminal area, and this and other security improvements would be financed under
the project in accordance with the final engineering study for port improvements which is
underway. The Minister of Finance wrote to IDA expressing his willingness to extend
the fiscal zone to the entire port area as soon as the physical improvements required to
secure the zone under Customs control are completed, and provided a preliminary list of



-10-
required improvements to the appraisal mission. The design and list will be refined under
the final engineering study for the project, and the works will be carried out under the
project by June 30, 1999, 1998. The arrangements for extending the Customs fiscal
zone to the entire port area by June 30, 1999 were agreed at negotiations.
2.14  Maintenance. Maintenance of infrastructure, apart from dredging in the access
channel, has long been almost non-existent. The Transport Project helped finance
rehabilitation of pavement and aprons in the most dilapidated port areas. Complementary
pavement, drainage, and navigation aids rehabilitation are included in the proposed
project. Superstructure maintenance has also been widely neglected, with warehouses
and utilities networks in need of major repairs. The project proposes to rehabilitate a
minimum number of warehouses to allow for the easier privatization of commercial
activities, and to finance a new port lighting network for an improved operational
schedule. Maintenance of the handling equipment is carefully carried out by PDA; as a
result, it has been able to keep some 30-year old cranes in operation. Since PDA will
remain, at least for the time being, the owner and operator of the quay cranes, the port
workshop will still have to maintain them. Technical assistance included in the project
will help establish and monitor a yearly maintenance schedule of the port assets,
including precise definitions of the related accountabilities and budget implications.
Investments and Planning
2.15  Investments at the Port of Durres resumed in 1994, beginning with the most
urgent civil works, and some equipment financed by the Kuwait Fund under the
Transport Project (para. 1.09). The Transport Project also financed the design of a Port
Master Plan, which included proposals for future investments, and institutional studies.
A feasibility study for a new ferry terminal was also prepared. Planned future investments
include notably the proposed project, the construction of a new ferry terminal for about
US$12.0 million equivalent (para. 4.09), and US$1.5 million for various civil works --
repair of damage, fences and repairs to the oil wharf-- financed from PDA's own budget
in 1997.
C. Privatization of Port Operations
2.16 Port of Durres Authority (PDA). The proposed credit will be made contingent
on the progressive privatization of all port operations, with PDA remaining in the role of
landlord of the infrastructure, and temporarily owner of some of the heavy equipment, as
discussed below. The existing port land and buildings will be revalued as part of the
privatization exercise and the land and other existing infrastructure will be transferred
from GOA to PDA's accounts, as a GOA equity contribution to a financially autonomous
PDA. Any equipment not transferred to the private sector or scrapped, will remain among
PDA's fixed assets and be rented out to operators as needed. PDA will be responsible for
the administration of leases and operating contracts, security, lighting and other utilities,
maintenance of the infrastructure and some of the heavy equipment, planning and
development, as well as for the collection and dissemination of port information and for



-11-
the commercial promotion of the port as a whole. It will also initially be responsible for
the administration of the Technical Profit Center.
Privatization and Staffing Plan
2.17  GOA has already privatized some of the activities which were formerly carried
out by PDA. These are pilotage, tallying, water supply to ships, agency functions,
trucking, cleaning and food services. Towage, dredging and other marine services have
been transferred to the responsibility of a separate, parastatal company, which will be
privatized under the mass privatization scheme currently being implemented. The Marine
Services company is a profitable enterprise, according to informnation received from its
management, although its equipment is old and inadequately maintained. The dredger
however was sunk during the Spring 1997 riots, which means that future dredging
operations will have to be contracted out. Any potential strategic investor will, therefore,
need to refurbish some equipment and probably have to invest in new tugs. Several
foreign operators have nevertheless expressed interest.
2.18  Trucking and Miscellaneous Port Services. PDA has sold the truck fleet to
former port employees. About 171 truckers and support service staff are expected to be
separated from P]DA. The port cleaning staff (22 persons) have requested to leave PDA
to form their own cleaning company to be contracted by the port on an annual basis, at
least for the first year. Another group of 27 port workers will form a private enterprise to
run the Seaman's Club in the port.
2.19  Cargo Handling Services.  With regard to Stevedoring, Porterage and
Warehousing, P]DA is in the process of setting up two separate and competing Profit
Centers, with a total staff of 750 employees, as of March 1, 1998, to operate as two
embryo stevedoring companies, for a trial period of about 12 months. They will remain
under the tutelage of PDA's management during this period, after which time they will be
expected to be privatized as cargo handling contractors. Either or both can then seek
partners in the form of strategic investors. In addition to these two cargo-handling units,
PDA will also set up a separate Technical Profit Center with 429 employees, which will
sell its services to the cargo handling operators as required and be privatized (or absorbed
into the cargo operating companies) on September 30, 1999. It is expected that about 585
employees would leave the port when these companies are privatized, and would receive
one year salary as a redundancy, paid from the port budget. These arrangements are
summarized in a PDA Privatization and Manpower Action Plan, shown in Annex 2.3.
Several private operators have expressed an interest in the the grain handling operation ,
expected to be between 200-400 thousand ton per year once all the flour-mills become
operative again. Specifications are therefore being prepared by PDA for inviting bids
from potential operators. PDA employees currently engaged in discharging grain would
be taken on by the private operator as part of the operating agreement. It was also agreed
that this whole process will be done with the assistance of the Consultant Privatization
Expert, under the implementation phase of his ongoing contract, plus an extension, if
necessary, which would be financed retroactively under the proposed project. The



-12-
Government and PDA agreed at negotiations on the PDA Privatization and
Manpower Action Plan and thereafter to implement the Plan, including not
increasing total port staff above the end-1997 level of 1,520, with redundant workers
paid a separation payment of one year's salary from the port budget.
2.20. The parastatal Maritime Services Company, previously separated from PDA,
owns and operates two tugs, (the dredge it also owned, was sunk during the Spring riots)
and a floating crane, is to be privatized under the mass-privatization scheme i.e. to be
turned into a joint stock company. To this end, the assets of the company have already
been valued and shares are to be issued and sold for vouchers and/or cash. The sale of
redundant or obsolete assets will then be done by the newly formed enterprise.
Subsequently, a strategic investor will be sought to purchase a dominant part of the
shares.
Equipment
2.21  Cargo-handling equipment (new  and refurbished cranes and other heavy
equipment), which cannot be transferred to any single operator, will remain the
responsibility of PDA until such time as it can be auctioned to operators or scrapped (if
no further economic use is indicated). Because of the small number of containers
currently passing through the port, and the likelihood of contracting more than one cargo-
handling operator, the number of containers initially handled by each is likely to be less
than that which would justify a large investment in a ship-shore container crane. Such a
crane would therefore have to be rented out to operators on an hourly rate basis, similar to
the system employed by many European port authorities.
-II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01  As discussed, there is a critical need to overcome infrastructure bottlenecks to
economic development in Albania. Within this framework, the objective of the project
is to improve the efficiency and the effective capacity of the Port of Durres, taking
environmental considerations into account, by (a) increasing its commercial orientation
by establishing an autonomous port authority, privatizing port operations, improving
Customs procedures, and improving operations and safety; and (b) rehabilitating port
infrastructure to accommodate anticipated traffic demand and attract transit traffic.
B. Project Description
3.02  The project comprises the rehabilitation of berths, the breakwater, and
warehouses, and the construction of customs installations at the port of Durres. It also
includes the rehabilitation and supply of cranes, navigation aids, port lighting and



-13-
environmental  protection  equipment,  as  well  as  technical  assistance  for
commercialization and privatization, and training and studies. In particular, the project
includes:
a) Port Civil Works: these are the main rehabilitation and strengthening works
required ito enable the port of Durres to cope with the expected traffic in terms of
volume and safety standards. Berth structures are in a generally bad state, due to
poor initiial materials and workmanship and subsequent corrosion. The works
comprise (see Map No. IBRD 28506):
- rebuilcling the windscreen and repairs to the armor of the main breakwater
(which was constructed during World War II), the poor state of which may
otherwise endanger all port operations;
- full repairs to quays 1 and 6, which would otherwise become unsafe to operate
within 5 or 6 years (which could lower port throughput by an estimated 20
percent);
- rebuilding or recasting the coping beam face of quays 2 to 4, 7 and 8, and
grouting up voids in quays 2 to 4;
- replacing tie rods in the east quay;
- new fenders;
- surfacing and drainage behind quays 4, 5 and 6, and between quay 2 and the
PDA office;
- resurfacing the road from quay 8 to the new port road and surfacing new access
roads to the container yard and to the east quay.
Cost estimate (5 percent tax included): US$8.1 million.
b) Navigation Aids: the entrance channel to the port of Durres has been badly
maintained; half of the buoys are missing and others need to be replaced. Lights
do not function. Consequently, larger vessels such as bulk carriers can only enter
the port during daylight hours. Safety standards also require the replacement of
the buoys in the entrance channel. Cost estimate: US$0.2 million.
c) Port Lighting: a new lighting network is required on the entire port of Durres
area. Cost estimate: US$0.5 million.
d)  Warehouses and Offices: Following the recommendations of the Port Master Plan
Study, up to three port warehouses would be rehabilitated to provide a bonded
warehouse for Customs and facilitate leasing or concessioning. The HMO office,
burnt in the Spring 1997 events, would also be rehabilitated. Cost estimate (5
percent tax included): US$1.5 million.
e)  Modernization of Cranes: The Port Master Plan Study recommended the
rehabilitation of up to 12 quay cranes prior to any new investment in quay
handling equipment, depending on the volume and nature of traffic to be handled.
The economic assessment updated the traffic forecasts in the light of the last
developments, taking also into account the productivity improvements expected



-14-
from an increased participation of the private sector in cargo handling activities,
and concluded to the need to rehabilitate 7 cranes and to purchase 5 new ones.
Additional spare parts will be provided for all port cranes and yard equipment.
Cost estimate: US$5.9 million.
f)  Anti-Pollution Actions: The oil terminal facility in the Port of Durres is very close
to the beach and is a potential risk for the marine environment in case of an
accidental oil spill. Although no major accident has occurred yet, the Port
Authority should have available the minimum equipment required to prevent any
spill to expand along the seashore. This would include a minimum length of
floating dams, together with a basic supply of dispersants and related equipment.
The bitumen tanks located in the port, as well as the stockpile of iron ore, would
be relocated under the project to improve both environmental and operational
conditions. Cost estimate: US$0.4 million.
g)  Customs Modernization:   The project would help finance the physical
improvements required to expand the fiscal zone to the whole port area. Cost
estimate: US$0.4 million.
h) Miscellaneous Equipment:  The project would finance office equipment and
miscellaneous working materials for the Port of Durres Authority, the Harbour
Master's Office, the Institute of Transport Studies in Tirana, and the Project
Management Unit in MPWT. Cost estimate: US$0.4 million.
i)  Studies: It is proposed to include a study on the future role of the secondary ports
in Albania. In relation to the prevention of possible pollution in the port area,
there is also a need to know as precisely as possible the conditions and possible
contamination status of the soils in the port basins and in the entrance channel. A
survey including sampling, physical and chemical analysis of the materials likely
to be dredged for maintenance or deepening purposes will therefore have to be
carried out. Furthermore, the Port Authority should also have an Oil Pollution
Emergency Plan. An Urban Transport Improvements Study for the City of Tirana
is also included (para. 1.07): Cost estimate: US$1.0 million.
j)  Technical Assistance: Assistance will be provided to the Port Authority in
privatization and the regulation of private operators, following up on project
preparation work financed under the Transport Project. Assistance in establishing
a training center will also be provided based on the findings of an UNCTAD
training specialist. A project coordinator would also be provided. Supervision of
port works will also be provided. Cost estimate: US$1.0 million.
k)  Training: The project would provide for adequate training of port staff and private
operators, either in Albania or abroad. A Port Training Center would be
established under the project. An allowance will be made for translation of



-15-
pedagogic documents and professional handbooks in Albanian. Cost estimate:
US$0.4 million.
C. Cost Estimate
3.03  The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies, amounts to US$23.0
million equivalent, with a foreign component of about US$17.4 million equivalent, or 76
percent of the total cost. The costs of the different project components based on US$1 =
Lek 140 exchange rate, November 1997, are given in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: Project Components and Cost Estimate
(in US$ million including taxes)
Component                 Local    Foreign       Total     Foreign (%
(a) Civil Works               3.5         4.6        8.1          57%
(b) Navigation Aids           0.0         0.2        0.2         100%
(c) Lighting                  0.0         0.5        0.5         100%
(d) Warehouses                0.7         0.8        1.5          53%
(e) Cranes and Spares         0.0         5.9        5.9         100%
(f) Anti-Pollution            0.0         0.4        0.4         100%
(g) Customs Modernization     0.2         0.2        0.4          60%
(h) Miscellaneous Equipment   0.0         0.4        0.4         100%
(i) Studies                  0.15        0.85        1.0          85%
(j) Technical Assistance     0.15        0.85        1.0          85%
G) Training                   0.0         0.4        0.4         100%
Project Base Cost           4.7       15.1       19.8          76%
Contingencies
Physical (12% CW, 10%       0.6         1.4       2.0
Eqt)
Price (6%)                  0.3        0.9        1.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST            5.6        17.4       23.0         76%
3.04  Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from preliminary engineering
designs,and on unit costs provided by PDA for works recently executed in the port. Final
engineering studies are underway, and are expected to be substantially completed and
bidding documents prepared by June 300, 1998. The foreign component is estimated
from a breakdown of cost elements.
3.05  Costs for the technical assistance and studies are based on an average of
US$18,000 per mr/m (except the cost of a project coordinator, US$15,000 per m/m), while



-16-
costs for supervision of rehabilitation works are equivalent to 3 percent of the
construction costs excluding contingencies. Costs of equipment and materials are based
on estimates provided by the Port Master Plan study. Costs for training MPWT/PDA
staffs are estimated at US$2,000 per m/m, taking into account that most will be in-house
training and that the most expensive item in international training, traveling, would
mostly take place inside Europe. All technical assistance, studies, training, materials and
equipment costs are exempt from taxes and duties.
3.06  A physical contingency of 12 percent for civil works and 10 percent for
equipment has been included in order to cover possible increases in quantities, which is
reasonable given the nature of the works. Price contingencies have been applied to base
costs, expressed in US$ in accordance with Bank guidelines, for each year 1999 to 2002,
as follows: 3.1, 2.9, 2.8 and 2.7 percent, an average of 6.0 percent for the project.
D. Financing Plan
3.07 The Borrower would be the Republic of Albania. The Association would provide
a credit of US$17.0 million equivalent, the OPEC Fund (The OPEC Fund for
International Development) would provide an already approved credit of US$5.0 million
equivalent, and the Government would contribute US$1.0 million equivalent (4.4
percent). It is expected that the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement would become effective by
October 31, 1998. This contribution is considered the maximum compatible with the
Government's budgetary possibilities. A proposed financing plan is shown in Table 3.2
below. The proposed financing plan, including cofinancing arrangements with the
OPEC Fund, was discussed and agreed at negotiations.



-17-
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ millions including contingencies)
Component         Local  Foreign   Total   GOA   OPECC   IDA
Civil Works               4.1      5.5     9.6      0.9     5.0       3.7
Navigation Aids             -      0.2     0.2        -       -       0.2
Lighting                    -      0.6     0.6        -       -      0.6
Warehouses/Workshop       0.9      0.9     1.8        -       -       1.8
Cranes Rehabilitation       -      1.4     1.4        -       -       1.4
New Cranes                  -      4.0     4.0        -       -       4.0
Equipment Spare Parts       -      1.4     1.4        -       -       1.4
Anti-Pollution Actions      -      0.5     0.5        -       -       0.5
Customs Modernization     0.2      0.3     0.5        -       -      0.5
Miscellaneous Equipment            0.5     0.5                       0.5
Studies                   0.3      0.7     1.0      0.1       -      0.9
Technical Assistance      0.1      1.0     1.1        -       -       1.1
Training                    -      0.4     0.4        -       -      0.4
TOTAL PROJECT            S.6    17.4    23.0       1.0             17.0
E. Status of Project Preparation
3.08  The project has been prepared on the basis of a recently completed Port Master
Plan Study, and a technical study of berth condition completed in September 1996 and
funded under the ongoing Transport Project. In addition, advisors financed under the
Transport Project made recommendations for institutional improvements.  Final
engineering studies and bidding documents are also under preparation, expected to be
XJoint Financing



-18-
substantially completed in June 1998, financed under a Japanese Grant which the
Association gratefully acknowledges.
3.09  The privatization of commercial port operations is being prepared with the
assistance of privatization consultants funded under the ongoing Transport Project. A
Port Privatization Workshop took place in September, 1996, and a Port Regulations
Workshop in January 1998 to set the stage for further processing. In accordance with
the conclusions of the Privatization Workshop, the progressive privatization of most port
operations will take place under the project, based on the recommendations of, and
aided by, consultants currently engaged in preparing suitable "packages" for
privatization. A commercially oriented joint stock company would be established at the
Port of Durres prior to project effectiveness (para. 2.03).
F. Implementation and Monitoring
3.10  MPWT would be responsible for the overall management, administration and
coordination of the project. The project would be implemented by MPWT and PDA,
with the assistance of a Project Management Unit (PMU) located in MPWT, which
would report through the Director of Transport to the Minister of MPWT. The PMU is
already helping implement the ongoing Transport Project (then called an Executive
Secretariat) The PMU, with the assistance of a procurement specialist experienced in
procurement under the World-Bank rules, would review and follow up on procurement
and bidding documents related to the project, monitor and coordinate project
implementation, assemble in a quarterly report all information related to project
implementation, and liaise with the International Development Association's (IDA's)
supervision missions. It would be assisted by an Economist, as well as by a Project
Coordinator financed under the project. The project would finance additional equipment
and materials to help the PMU attend to its duties under the project. The continuing
composition and responsibilities of the PMU were agreed with GOA at negotiations.
The conditions of employment and the related terms of reference of the Project
Coordinator (Annex 3.1) were also discussed and agreed at negotiations. The
appointment of the Project Coordinator will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
3.11  Consultants would be employed to assist PDA staff in civil works and equipment
rehabilitation/supervision under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Annex 3.2).
The procurement of technical assistance, training, and studies would also be under their
respective responsibility following submission to the Association, for review and
approval, of the evaluation of the proposed experts. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on the terms of reference for: (a) supervision of civil works and
equipment rehabilitation (Annex 3.2), (b) Secondary Ports Development (Annex
3.3), the Environmental Assessment of Durres Port (Annex 3.4); Technical
Assistance for Privatization (Annex 3.8); and the Tirana Urban Transport
Improvements Study (Annex. 1.5).



-19-
3.12  There are no transport project lending profiles available for Albania. However, on
the basis of achievements under the Transport Project, it is expected that the rehabilitation
works starting in the first and second year with a maximum construction period of two
years and a half would require a project implementation period between four and five
years. The civi:l works would be implemented in two years. Rehabilitation and
procurement of port equipment would also be completed during the first two years and a
half of project irmplementation. The technical assistance and training component would
take place throughout the entire four/five year period in order to provide continuous
advice to PDA, 'with a particular stress on the privatization process during the first two
years of project implementation. The three studies on Secondary Ports Development,
Analysis of DredLged Materials, and Oil Pollution Emergency Plan, and the Tirana Urban
Transport Improvements study would be completed during the first two-year period of
project implementation. The implementation schedule for project activities is shown in
Annex 3.5. With credit effectiveness expected in the fourth quarter of 1998, and start of
project implementation in January 1999, the project would be completed by December
31, 2002, and the proposed Credit's closing date would be June 30, 2003. The PMU
would submit quarterly progress reports to the Association detailing the implementation
of every project component activity including Monitoring Indicators (Annex 3.9).
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the project
implementation plan, monitoring criteria, and reporting arrangements.
G. Procurement
3.13  The project's procurement arrangements, are summarized in Table 3.3 below.



-20-
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(USS million, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Component                   ICB               Others             Total Cost
Civil Works                         9.6                 -                   9.6
(3.7)                                   (3.7)
Navigation Aids                                        0.2'                 0.2
(0.2)               (0.2)
Lighting                            0.6                 -                   0.6
(0.6)                                   (0.6)
Warehouses/Offices                  2.0                 -                   2.0
(2.0)                                   (2.0)
Cranes                              5.4                 -                   5.4
(5.4)                                   (5.4)
Equipment Spare Parts                                  1.4 a                1.4
(1.4)               (1.4)
Anti-Pollution Actions                                0.35'                 0.35
- Goods                                              (0.35)               (0.35)
-Minor Works                                          0.15b                 0.15
(0.15)              (0.15)
Customs Modernization                                  0.3a                 0.3
(0.3)               (0.3)
Miscellaneous Equipment              -                 0.5'                 0.5
(0.5)               (0.5)
Studies                              -                 10c                  1.0
(0.9)               (0.9)
Technical Assistance                 -                 1I1c                 1.1
(1.1)               (1.1)
Training                             -                 0.4c                 0.4
(0.4)               (0.4)
TOTAL PROJECT                      17.6                5.4                 23.0
(11.7)             (5.3)               (17.0)
Note: Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed under the IDA credit.
a International Shopping
b Minor Works, to be procured through shopping
c Consultant Services according to Bank Guidelines



-21-
3.14 Detailed procurement arrangements are shown in Annex 3.6. Among the
rehabilitation works, six separate contracts (for quays/breakwater repairs and fendering,
pavement and drainage, and warehouses and offices rehabilitation), of estimated value
between US$0.5 and US$7.2 million equivalent, excluding contingencies, would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Contractors for
these works would be prequalified, except for warehouse and office rehabilitation
contracts, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines dated January 1995
(amended as of September 1997). For ICB works, a 7.5 percent margin of preference for
domestic contractors would be applied on bid evaluation, provided the criteria for
eligibility for domestic preference as outlined in paras. 2.54, 2.55, and Appendix 2 of the
Guidelines are met thereto. All contracts would be subject to prior review and approval
by IDA. The OPEC Fund, which is providing joint cofinancing for the civil works
component of the project, will also be subject to IDA's procurement guidelines. Some
minor works undler the anti-pollution component will be procured through shopping (2
contracts for a total amount of US$0.15 million).
3.15  Equipment for lighting, new cranes, and crane rehabilitation (total contracts
estimate US$6.0 million) would be procured through ICB. Equipment for navigation aids,
customs, spare parts, anti-pollution actions, and miscellaneous office equipment,
estimated to cost $200,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of $3.0 million, would be
procured by International Shopping (IS) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. For procurement through ICB, goods manufactured in Albania would be
granted a preference of 15 percent or related duties whichever is less, provided the criteria
for eligibility for domestic preference as outlined in paras. 2.54, 2.55, and Appendix 2 of
the Guidelines are met thereto. The first two IS packages for equipment would be subject
to IDA's prior review. Other contracts would be subject to ex-post review after contract
award.
3.16  Consulting services, technical assistance, training and studies would be procured
in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants published in January
1997 (revised September 1997) except for the Privatization Consultant (contract estimate
US$0.2 million) which would be procured through single source. The privatization
consultant was initially recruited through a competitive selection process under the
Transport Project.  Single source procurement is considered necessary to assure
continuity and cost effectiveness. IDA financed contracts with consulting firms estimated
to cost $100,000 or more and with individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or
more, and each single source contract would be subject to prior review by the
Association.
3.17  A Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in 1997.  The
Borrower will follow procedures consistent with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
The Project Procurement Schedule includes the schedule of major procurement steps.



-22-
3.18  Procurement would be a main responsibility of the PMU (para. 3.10) and their
procurement advisers. Procurement information to be provided to IDA would include:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information, and (b) comprehensive explanation of
revised costs estimates for individual contracts and the total project, revised timing of
procurement actions, and compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement. The General Procurement Notice would be issued on April 16, 1998 and
the Project Launch Workshop held in June 1998. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on all procurement arrangements.
H. Disbursements
3.19  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against the project components as
shown in Table 3.3:
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories
Category      Description        Amount          Percent of Expenditures
US$               to be Financed
million
equivalent
1     Civil Works               5.1     48 %
2     Goods                     8.0      100 % of foreign expenditures, 100
% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs), and 80 % of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3     Consultants for:
(a) Studies               0.8     90 %
(b) Technical Assistance  0.9     100 %
(c) Training              0.4     100 %
Unallocated               1.8
4.      TOTAL                   17.0
3.20  With the exception of contracts valued at US$200,000 or less, all withdrawal
applications will be fully documented.  Disbursements against contracts valued at
US$200,000 or less would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE).
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
documentation to support expenditures financed under SOE's would be maintained
by the Borrower and made available for review to IDA supervision missions.



-23-
3.21  Retroactive financing up to a total of US$575,000 equivelant would'be provided
for payments made by the Borrower after November 30, 1997 but before signature of the
Credit Agreement. This would allow to keep up the momentum on the privatization
process of port commercial services by providing technical assistance services following
the first Privatization Workshop.
3.22  To facilitate disbursements, IDA's share of the project would be financed through
a Special Account (revolving fund) which would be opened by the Borrower in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for the Special Account
would be US$1.0 million, equivalent to about four months of project expenditures
(financed by II)A) during the five year disbursement period for the project. Funds for
equipment and spare parts would be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special
Account after approval of the ICB, IS, Minor Works or direct procedures and related
contract awards by the Association. Replenishment for technical assistance and for
consultants for construction supervision would be made on the basis of appropriate
documentation. Replenishment of the Special Account would follow IDA procedures.
3.23  A schedule of disbursements, based on the Project Implementation Schedule, is
given in Annex 3.7. As discussed, there are no sectoral disbursement profiles available,
Albania being a recent IDA member. However, on the basis of achievements under the
Transport Project, it is expected that the rehabilitation works starting in the first and
second year with a maximum construction period of two years and a half would require a
project implementation period between four and five years. Furthermore, the limited
range of the project, the urgency of the need for the works, equipment and TA, and the
interest demonstrated by the central Government and PDA on processing the project,
would guarantee a reasonable project implementation period of four to five years. With a
fourth quarter 1998 credit effectiveness date and a January 1999 - June 30, 2003 project
implementation period (para. 3.12), the proposed credit would be fully disbursed six
months later or by December 31, 2003.
I. Environment
3.24 The project is based on the rehabilitation and improved maintenance of existing
infrastructure. The project has, therefore, been placed in Category B in accordance
with the provisions of OD 4.01. Port civil works would be subject to a limited
environmental review. Durres harbor is not significantly polluted at present, but this
may change as traffic grows. PDA regulations require that ships' waste be collected,
and this is done at present by a private company, which may need upgrading its
processing capacity in the future. The rehabilitation of berths and the improvement of
port operations under the project, as well as the survey of port soils, the preparation of
an Oil Pollution Emergency Plan, and the provision of anti-pollution equipment, are
expected to help improve the enforcement of environmental regulations (para. 3.11).
Under clauses iin the bidding documents, contractors will be responsible for keeping
every worksite pollution-free and for returning job sites to their original condition.



-24-
J. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
3.25 Reporting. The PMU is presently implementing the Transport Project
satisfactorily. The PMU, in consultation with PDA, would establish the types of
information to be made available to management for monitoring the progress of the
project, and the procedures and timing for its submission to the PMU. This would cover
the progress and problems in execution of civil works and equipment procurement,
institutional development, financial performance and studies. The key performance
indicators for the project are set out in Annex 3.9.
3.26. The PMU will prepare and submit to IDA annual reports no later than March 15
of each year of project implementation. The report would contain the following two
sections: (a) Annual Progress Report; and (b) Annual Work Plan for the Project
(a)   Annual Progress Report would be prepared by the PMU, in collaboration with
PDA, and cover the progress of each project component, key performance
indicators, and the traffic and financial accounts for PDA;
(b)   The Annual Work Plan would be prepared by the PMU and contain a plan for the
implementation, updated disbursement profile, and target key performance
indicators during the coming year. Budgets, which would be based on the
appraisal estimates, would be amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs
and scope of institutional development components and studies.
3.27 In order to assure timely reporting to IDA, the PMU would also submit a quarterly
report in a format agreeable to the IDA. The quarterly report would cover the progress
and expected completion date for civil works and equipment contracts, progress of the
institutional components, studies and training program, and activities of the PMU. It
would also cover the financial management of the project as elaborated below, including
comparisons of actual physical and financial outputs, and updated six month project
forecast; (b) project financial statements including sources and applications of funds,
expenditure by category statement and special account reconciliation statement; and (c)
procurement management report showing status and contract commitments. The
arrangements for progress reports were agreed at negotiations.
3.28 Accounting. The MTWT and PMU will maintain financial management systems
- including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems, adequate to ensure that
they provide to the Bank accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures. When project implementation begins, the Borrower and the PMU will
have in place accounting and internal control systems that accord with International
Accounting Standards and that reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and
financial transactions of the project and provide sufficient financial information for
managing and monitoring project activities. Detailed accounts will be kept for each
project component and its sub-components.



-25-
3.29 Auditing. The project accounts were recently audited and the final report is under
preparation. The financial statements, the Special Account and the Statements of
Expenditure would be audited at the end of each fiscal year during implementation of the
Durres Port Projiect, in accordance with international standards on auditing, by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit would include: (a) assessment of the
adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other
financial transactions and ensure safe custody of the project-financed assets; (b) a
determination as to whether the borrower and the PMU have maintained adequate
documentation on all relevant transactions; (c) verification that expenditures submitted to
the Bank are eligible for financing; and (d) identification of any ineligible expenditures.
Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close
of the country's fiscal year. The audit report will cover both the compiled account of
expenditure incurred during the fiscal year as well as the statement of Expenditures used
for withdrawals from the special account. Special attention shall be made to confirm the
transparency and accountability of the use of funds from the beneficiaries. Terms of
Reference for the audit and the selection of the auditor would be reviewed by the Bank
every year. It was agreed that MPWT/PMU would keep in place the same audit
arrangements as in the three ongoing credits for the Transport (Credit 24990ALB), Rural
Roads (Credit 2732-ALB), and National Roads projects (Credit 2888-ALB).
3.30 Internal Controls. The audit of the PMU for the Transport Project found that
there were no major problems with internal controls but that some improvements were
required in the adequacy of the accounting system (para. 3.25). A simple but efficient
financial management system would be developed prior to the project launching with the
assistance of qualified financial consultants. It was agreed that the establishment of the
Special Account managed and operated by the PMU will take place in a commercial
bank. According to Albanian Treasury regulations, funds of the credit account for the SA
will pass through the Albanian Treasury account in the Bank of Albania. The procedure
is similar to that currently being followed for the National Roads Project (Credit 2888-
ALB) and Rural Roads (Credit 2732-ALB). These accounting and auditing
arrangements and requirements were also agreed at negotiations.
IV. PORT FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Sources of Revenue
4.01  The main port services are currently rendered by four separate entities, as follows:
a. Pilotage and Mooring: two privatized companies;
b. Towage: a separate government-owned entity (Marine Services) intended for
privatization, which also does port dredging;
c. Navigational Aids and Clearance for entry and departure: the Harbor Master's
Office, who at present comes under the Ministry of Defense; and



-26-
d. Stevedoring and shoreside handling of cargo: the Port Of Durres Authority
(PDA).
4.02 As the Pilotage and the Towage concerns are financially self-sufficient
enterprises, revenues to finance port operations and investments are generated only by the
HMO, which levies harbor dues from vessels, and by PDA, which collects port tariffs for
services it renders to vessel operators and owners of cargo.
4.03   Whereas revenues from port tariffs (charges for services) are retained by PDA to
finance its operations, including maintenance and a part of investments, harbor dues
collected by the HMO go directly to the Ministry of Finance. The Government transferred
the HMO from the Ministry of Defense to MPWT (para. 2.04), but the funds will
continue to flow to the Treasury. As GOA will be servicing the debt created by the
proposed new credit out of its revenues and from PDA's taxes, it is not proposed that this
fund-flow be changed.
B. Present Financial Situation
4.04  Despite a drastic reduction (78 percent) of its overall throughput between 1988
and 1994, PDA has remained a profitable public enterprise. Traffic has resumed growth
since then (up to about 40 percent of the 1988 figure in 1996), especially the most
profitable type of traffic, namely that of ferries and Ro-Ro vessels (para. 2.10). Other
general cargo traffic also grew, except for greatly varying imports of grain. On the cost
side, expenditure was reduced not only by the variable operating cost of reduced cargo
handling, but also by a limited decrease in staff and by neglecting maintenance and
rehabilitation works of the port's infrastructure and equipment, the latter being the
principal cause for much of the rehabilitation now required.
4.05 The following is a summary of PDA's and HMO's financial results for 1993-96:
For indicative figures, see GEM Consultants' Final Economic Report, in the project files.



-27-
Table 4.1: Financial Results of PDA and HMO, 1993-96
(thousands of Leks, US$=100 Leks)
PDA                                    1993          1994           1995          1996
Operating Revenue                  581,195        503,028        478,814       694,000
Operating Expenditure              428,083        320,243        351,731       503,100
Operating Ratio (%)                      75             64            73             72
Working Ratio (%)                        70             60            70             68
HMO (**)
Harbor Dues                             n.a.      180,000        183,000       217,000
Expenditure (budgeted)                  n.a.         3,600         3,660          7,000
* *HMO figures are as reported verbally by the Ministry of Defense; no detailed revenue accounts
were available.
note: Working ratio is the ratio of total working expenses to total operating revenue. Total working
expenses means all expenses relating to operations, including administration and adequate maintenance,
but excluding provision for depreciation and interest on long-term debt. Total operating revenues means
revenue from all sources related to operations. Operating ratio means the ratio of total operating expenses
to total operating revenues. Total operating expenses means total working expenses plus provision for
depreciation.
C. Effect of Privatizing Operations
4.06   Agreement has been reached on the progressive privatization of all port operations
on the basis of leases or concessions, which should leave the PDA with a reduced role of
landlord-steward of these port assets which have not been transferred to the private
operators (para. 2.18). Eventually, it will be only the existing port infrastructure which
will remain in public hands. The current financial position of the enterprise is, therefore,
not necessarily relevant to the future financial performance of PDA. Several scenarios
have been analyzed for the purpose of the financial evaluation, from that where no change
from PDA's present functions have taken place, to a situation where all operations in the
port are given by private contractors. During the course of the project, it is expected that
financial performance indicators for PDA will fall somewhere between these two
extremes. Forecasts of financial performance for years 1997-2003 are presented in
Annexes 4.1 and 4.2.



-28-
4.07 PDA as a "landlord" authority, would be a relatively small organization, currently
estimated at about eighty employees with responsibility for maintaining the
infrastructure, including utilities, like water and power supply, in good running order,
security and lighting of the port area, administration of contracts with lessees and
concessionaires, master planning, port data collection, processing and dissemination.
Such an organization would have a small, professional staff to plan and supervise the
maintenance and other activities, which would be largely contracted out. Its revenue
would come mainly from leases and concessions, the terms of which could be either such
as to provide PDA with a fixed annual revenue or else of a risk sharing nature (depending
on the capacity and nature of the lessor and the negotiated terms agreed between the
parties).
4.08  The 585 members of staff to be rendered redundant during the process of partially
privatizing port operations, will be paid one year's base salary as compensation in
accordance with Albanian law, to be financed out of the PDA budget.
D. Additional Investments
4.09  It is proposed that the OPEC Fund participate in funding the project, for the
equivalent of US$5 million (para. 3.09). In addition to project investments (see chapter
3), GOA is in the process of obtaining loans, for a total of approximately US$11.6
million equivalent, from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, for the construction of the first phase of a modem
Ferry Terminal (the total investment is estimated at US$12 million equivalent). These
loans will be serviced by revenues from harbor dues paid by Ro-Ro vessels calling at the
new Ferry Terminal.
4.10 The new assets financed by GOA through these loans, as well as those that will be
financed under the present project, will be transferred to PDA's books on entering in
operation, as has already been the case with the new assets financed under the Transport
Project.
4.11  Thanks to its accumulated profits, PDA could also resume last year investments
through its own funds, with US$0.41 million invested in 1996, and US$1.5 million
estimated for 1997.
E. Financial Forecasts and Targets
4.12  Financial forecasts are presented in Annexes 4.1 and 4.2, and notes on their
calculation in Annex 5.5. Based on these, the most appropriate financial target for PDA
would be to achieve an average return for each fiscal year beginning January 1, 1999 of
no less than 5 percent on a three year average of net fixed assets. During the period prior
to privatizing operations (1998), PDA should achieve a working ratio of less than 72
percent and an operating ratio of less than 78 percent, unless agreed otherwise with IDA.
These financial targets were agreed at negotiations.



-29-
4.13  The GOA presently receives about US$1.9 million in harbor dues each year plus
about US$0.3 million in taxes from PDA. Taking into account increased traffic through
the port of Durres, the project is expected to generate additional harbor dues.
Furthermore, increasing the profitability of PDA and the operating companies under the
project will generate higher aggregate corporate profit tax revenues for GOA. It is
estimated that GOA will receive an approximate average of US$2.0 million per year
during the period 1997-2011 in revenues from harbor dues and taxes. This additional
cash flow alone will be sufficient to service the IDA and OPEC Fund debt under the
project.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Background
5.01  The project supports key objectives in Albania's development strategy, namely
the rehabilitation of infrastructure needed to achieve a supply response in an affordable
manner and the privatization and commercialization of state owned enterprises. The
project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy Paper reviewed by the
Board on Septeimber 14, 1993, which identifies infrastructure bottlenecks as a significant
constraint to implementing the stabilization program and promoting economic
development. The project complements and follows on to the three transport projects
under implementation, and takes their lessons into account (paras. 1.11-1.14). The
Government has made substantial progress in adopting market-based transport policies
since the start of the economic transformation in 1991, and despite the setback of the
Spring 1997 events, there are no major policy distortions that will affect the
implementation of the project. The GOA has demonstrated its willingness to make major
policy reforms in cooperation with IDA, and the project continues these policy reforms in
the port sector. IDA's presence also serves as a catalyst to attract cofinancing for a high
priority project.
5.02  Albania is in the process of transforming to a market economy. The assistance
provided under the project in reorganizing the Port of Durres on a commercial basis,
privatizing port operations, and rehabilitating transport infrastructure is expected to
contribute to the transformation of the economy, improving transport efficiency and
reducing costs. However, it is difficult to quantify all the benefits of this process. The
economic benefits of the project were, therefore, estimated on the traditional basis of
reducing ships' turnaround time, reducing pilferage and damage to cargo, increasing
Customs collecition, in addition to enhancing revenues to GOA from ship dues and taxes
on port op--ators and PDA. External net benefits from the development of private port
and port-related operations could not be quantified and were not therefore included in the
calculations. This means that the actual economic return is likely to be larger than that
shown in this analysis.



-30-
B. Cost-Benefit Analysis
Methodology
5.03  The financial and economic analysis of the project are based on consultant studies
including a review of project investments, the Port Master Plan, a feasibility study of
proposed ferry terminal improvements, and information provided by PDA. The results
are summarized below, while operational assumptions and consultants' reports are
retained in the Project file.
5.04  Project benefits include increases in: (i) after-tax financial cash flows generated
by PDA and by the future private operating companies, based on the financial analysis
presented in Chapter 4; (ii) taxes paid by PDA and by the future private operating
companies; and (iii) HMO revenues. (iv) Customs revenues. All but the first of these
items accrue directly to GOA. Additional economic benefits include: (i) savings from
reduced ship waiting time, of which it was assumed that 60% would accrue to Albania
based on experience in other countries, through reduction in freight rates and/or an
appropriate increase in vessel charges once project investments are operative; and (ii)
savings from reduction of pilferage. Benefits such as possibly increased transit traffic
were not quantified, nor were economic externalities arising out of private operations
generated by the project.
5.05  The analysis was based on market prices, except that labor was valued at 60% of
the market rate. Around 25% of the work force is currently unemployed in Durres, and
presumably a higher proportion (say 40%) among less skilled workers typical of those
expected to become redundant under the project. It was assumed that 60% of redundant
workers would find alternative employment, i.e. the same proportion as the rest of the
Durres work force, including work rehabilitating the port under the project. Labor was
shadow priced during the first ten years of project implementation (1998-2007) on the
presumption that the economy would improve and unemployment decline by that time. It
should be noted that the opportunity cost of Government funds, plus the overhead costs of
collecting taxes, are both high at present. Increases in Government revenues under the
project, however, were not shadow priced in order to be conservative.
5.06 The net economic benefits stemming from Environmental and Safety
Improvements (breakwater rehabilitation, oil spill prevention component) were not
quantified in order to be conservative, although their costs were included in the analysis.
The main reason for these improvements is to comply with international regulations and
ship owners' expectations, and to prevent possible port closure due to an accident.
Traffic Forecast
5.07  Traffic was projected up to the year 2011 for each imported or exported
commodity, based on interviews with major industries and ministries involved, as well as



-31-
macro-economic forecasts, as shown in Annex 5.1. A lower traffic forecast was also
prepared in order to perform a risk analysis.
Alternative Scenarios
5.08  The reference situation is the case where the project is not implemented, i.e. no
investments are made and no institutional improvements are achieved. In this case,
infrastructure would continue to deteriorate based on the engineering studies carried out
for the project, resulting in a considerable loss of cargo handling capacity. In addition,
productivity would not improve in the absence of institutional reform. Based on the
traffic forecast, ship time in port would also increase significantly.
5.09  Two investment alternatives were considered.  The first (lower cost) option
consists of rehabilitating two quays (7 & 8) so that they could accommodate heavy duty
traffic (bulk and containers), and carrying out preventative maintenance on other quays
(see Map). The second (higher cost) option consists of repairing all quays and the
breakwater. Under the first option, it is expected that quays 5 & 6 would become unsafe
to operate and would need to be shut down within five or six years. However, bulk traffic
is expected to partially recover during this period, so that both quays 7 & 8 would be
needed to accommodate bulk traffic and containers would need to be stored elsewhere.
However, quays 5 & 6 are located right in the middle of the port operating area, so that
they would then have to be rehabilitated at that time to avoid impeding port operations,
especially container handling. The breakwater would also need to be rehabilitated at that
time so as not to jeopardize operations. Because the cost of carrying out those works at a
later stage would be much higher (due to site installation costs and disturbance to
operations), only the second option was considered further.
5.10  Estimates were made for three scenarios as explained further below: (a) the
project as proposed; (b) the project without institutional improvements; and (c) the
project assuming a low traffic forecast. The economic evaluation is shown in Annexes
5.2 - 5.4, and explanatory notes in Annex 5.5, with the following results:
Table 5.1: Results of the Economic Evaluation
Economic           Economic Net Present Value at
Rate of Return            10% discount rate
(US$000)
Project as Proposed           18.9 %                      17,659
Project withoult              13.0 %                        6.783
Institutional Reforms
Project as proposed, low      13.0%                         4,187
traffic scenario



-32-
C. Project Risks
5.11 The most significant project risks are that the Government would fail to
implement agreed institutional reforms, or that the traffic would fail to develop as
forecast. Institutional improvements are directed at lowering labor costs and at making
more efficient use of assets. By increasing the number of shifts and workable days and
modifying customs' procedures, productivity improvements are likely to lead to less
vessel time at berth, and reduce ship turnaround time in port, thus increasing throughput
per berth. Under the project, the GOA will reduce port staff, privatize most operations,
reorganize the port as a joint stock company, create a fiscal zone, and transfer of HMO to
civilian control. In the event that none of these reforms were carried out, the project is
still estimated to be economically justified with an ERR of 13.0 percent (para. 5.10).
Moreover, PDA and MPWT have already established an autonomous port, privatized
some port operations, passed a Decree transferring the HMO, and initiated actions in
other areas. The Government has also successfully carried out other market reforms in
the transport sector supported in part by IDA. This risk is, therefore, considered to be
acceptable.
5.12   A second project risk is that traffic would fail to develop as forecast. Although
traffic has resumed growth and nearly come back to its pre-crisis levels, the Albanian
economy is in transition, a number of heavy industries remain closed and their outlook is
uncertain, and further social unrest is possible. A risk analysis has been carried out
assuming lower future traffic levels. The analysis takes into account uncertainties
concerning the traffic of the following commodities: (i) chrome, construction materials,
coal and superphosphate, each of them coming from mines or plants that might close
down or be unable to increase production; (ii) imported grain, subject to unexpected
future fluctuation of domestic agriculture; and (iii) ferry traffic, which partially depends
on the date of completion of the new ferry terminal. In addition, other traffics were
assumed to grow more slowly. Under these adverse assumptions, the economic return for
the project is estimated to be 13.0 percent, which is acceptable (para. 5.09).
5.13   An additional risk is that redundant workers would be reemployed at unproductive
jobs in the public sector. However, Albanian Railways, the most likely candidate, has
been steadily reducing the size of its work force for the last several years, uneconomic
industries which were closed in the early 1990s are not expected to reopen, and the GOA
is considering further measures to reduce the size of the civil service.
5.14   There are no particular technical risks associated with the project. However, berth
strengthening works, which can always reveal unexpected difficulties, will require
adequate daily supervision.
5.15   Taking the above considerations into account, project risks are considered to be
acceptable.



-33-
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01  During negotiations the following matters were discussed and agreed on with the
Borrower:
a) The arrangements for extending the Customs fiscal zone to the entire port area by
June 30, 1999 (para. 2.13);
b) the Privatization and Manpower Action Plan, including not increasing total port staff
above the end-1997 level of 1,520 (para. 2.19 and Annex 2.3);
c) Financing Plan, including cofinancing arrangements with the OPEC Fund
(para. 3.07);
d) The continuing composition and responsibilities of the PMU (para. 3.10);
e) Project Implementation Plan, and monitoring and reporting arrangements (para. 3.12
and 3.27);
f) accounting and auditing arrangements and requirements (paras. 3.28-3.30); and
g) PDA should achieve an average return for each fiscal year beginning January 1, 1999
of no less than 5 percent on a three year average of net fixed assets. During the period
prior to privatizing operations (1998), PDA should achieve working ratio of less than 72
percent and an aggregate operating ratio of less than 78 percent, unless agreed otherwise
with IDA (para. 4.12).
6.02 During negotiations, understandings were reached with the Borrower on the
arrangements and TOR for:
(i)   the Tirana Urban Transport Improvements Study (Annex 1.5);
(ii)  the Project Coordinator (Annex 3.1);
(iii)  Supervision of Civil Works and Equipment Rehabilitation (Annex 3.2);
(iv)  Advisors (Annex 3.2);
(v)   Secondary Ports Development (Annex 3.4);
(vi)  Technical Assistance for Privatization (Annex 3.8); and
(vii)  Environmental Assessment of Durres Port (Annex 3.5).
6.03  Approval of the Statute establishing a Joint Stock Company at the Port of Durres,
appointment of the members of its Supervisory Council, and approval of the Port
Regulations (para. 2.03), and appointment of the Project Coordinator (para. 3.10) are
conditions of Credit Effectiveness.



-34-
6.04 With the above agreements reached, the project is suitable for a SDR 12.6 million
(US$17.0 million equivalent) credit under the standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
including a 15 years grace period, to the Government of Albania.



ALBANIA                               Annex 1.1
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Freight and Passenger Transport by the Public Sector, 1993-1996
Designation      Unit (000)        1993        1994        1995       1996
TRANSPORT OF
GOODS
Total            tons          8,420       4,540       3,978       2,654
t-km         146,926    115,216     133,300      71,700
of which:
1) Railways            tons             539        522         574         521
t-km         53,989      52,662      52,793      41,600
2) Roads                tons          7,881       4,018       3,404       2,133
t-km         92,937      62,554      80,468      30,100
VOLUME OF LOADING
AND UNLOADING
Total            tons           1,095        972       1,638       1,891
1) Ports
Sub-total           tons            828         793       1,311       1,609
Dures               tons            774         662         988       1,174
VIore              tons              15          78         235         314
Sarandle           tons              11          20          30          26
Shengiin           tons              28          33          58          96
2) Railways            tons             267         179         327        171



ALBANIA                                     Annex 1.2
DuRREs PORT PROJECT
Evolution of the Road Vehide Fleet, 1990-1996
Cars     Buses,    Tractors,    Light     Medium     Heavy               Grand
l  mini-  Pickups     Trucks     Trucks    Trucks   Trailers    Total
buses      (0.8 t)    (2.0 t)    (5.0 t)    (12 t)                      l
1990 (public)    2,362     1,798       984        5,573      5,543      831       540      17,631
1992 (Nov.)     18,942     3,819      10,440      7,663      5,620      924       711      48,119
1994 (April):
-public          7,586     2,500       860        1,452      1,518       96       786      14,798
-private        53,935     4,298      11,132      5,226      4,628     1,150      274      81,243
Total           61,521     6,798      11,992      6,678      6,146     1,246      1,060    95,441
1995 (Dec.):
-public          5,865      977        893         821       1,086       66      1,340     11,048
-private        62,828     5,955      11,211      6,888      7,559      1,584    2,571     98,596
Total           68,693     6,932      12,104      7,709      8,645      1,650    3,911     109,644
1996 (Dec.):
-public          3,689      685      categories changed,     2,169                432       7,293
-private        63,589     6,926      total:                 28,443              3,065    107,247
Total           64,771*    7,118                             29,798              7,293    114,540
Source: INSTAT (Instituti i Statistike), Tirana;
Date: November, 1997.



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Air Transport Activity at Rinas Airport, 1993-97
Passenger traffic
1993          1994           1995           1996           1997
Jan.-Mar.
Number of flights
Domestic/foreign joint ventures                   647            287            441            929            189
Foreign companies                                2,014          2,147         2,376          2,861            586
Total                                            2,661          2,434         2,817          3,790            775
Number of passengers
Departures                                      66,010         80,809        109,155       148,650         28,623
Arrivals                                        64,113         77,383        104,188       134,360         22,873
Total                                          130,123        158,192       213,343        283,013         51,496
Freiaht traffic
In 1996, the imports through airfreight totaled 738 tons, and the exports 135 tons.
Ainnail totaled 110 tons in and 33 tons out.
Source INSTAT (Instituti i Statistikes), Tirana
Date: November 1997



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Cross-Border Road Traffic, 1996
Cars                Buses and            Empty trucks             Loaded                TOTAL
vans                                       trucks
NATIONAL TRANSIT
Foreign vehicles  entering     41,988    +20%          5,728    -24%         1,227    -46%        21,192    -57%         70,135    -26%
leaving       35,435    +23%          3,200    -12%        14,033    -22%          5,503    -88%        58,171    -40%
Local vehicles
leaving      186,829   +283%         15,951    +15%         4,325    -10%         39,867   +218%       236,972   +232%
entering     191,175   +255%          6,167   +280%        21,779    -22%          9,411    -31%       228,532   +136%
Total
entering      228,817  +173%          11,679     -8%         5,552    -22%         61,059     -2%       307,107   +85%
leaving      226,610  +174%           9,367   +78%         35,812    -22%         14,914    -75%       286,703   +48%
INTERNATIONAL TRANSIT
entering        3144      -3%           423    -50%            33    -80%            684  -94%(1)         4284    -74%
leaving         1528    +44%           215    -43%            109    -96%          1029  -61%(1)          2881    -81%
GRAND TOTAL
entering      231961   +167%          12102    -11%          5585    -23%          61743    -17%        311391    +71%
leaving       228138   +172%          9582    +70%          35921    -26%         15943    -78%         289584    +38%
Entering + leaving      460099  +170%          21684   +13%           41506    -26%         77686    -47%         600975    +53%
Note: The percentages in italics are the evolution as compared to 1995 figures. The figures are projected from data over 9 months.
(1) Decline likely due to re-opening of border between Greece and FYR of Macedonia.
Source: INSTAT (Instituti i Statistikes), Tirana.



ANNEX 1.5
Page 1 of 10
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Tirana Urban Transport Improvements Study
Terms of Reference
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    The Municipality of Tirana and the Ministry of Public Works and transport (MPWT) are
mounting a series of actions aimed at improving urban transport in the capital, a city of about
half a million inhabitants. These terms of reference are for a new urban transport study (hereafter
called the Study) for which the client will commission outside consultants.
2.    Albania has moved from a virtually car-less country of a few years ago (2,400 autos in
1990, all government owned) to a state where a significant portion of the 65,000 autos (1 15,000
motor vehicles) clog streets of Tirana, which are ill equipped to handle either moving or stopped
traffic. Traffic and parking unfold largely in a spontaneous way, since control devices and
processes are scarce, as is enforcement. The municipal public transport company is weak in
termns of vehicles, facilities, staff and management skills, and may give way to a set-up based on
private operators. The Municipality's annual capital and recurrent expenditures (all purposes)
have been only about $14 million per year, 90% of the budget being a transfer from the central
government. There is no institutional capacity for traffic management and/or urban transport
planning in the municipal structure, the Government's Institute of Transport Studies (ITS) being
the only source of local expertise in this general sector.
3.    The information base for urban transport planning is mostly out-of-date. The latest urban
development plan dates from 1990, done following the then orthodox spatial planning, without
any economic or financial dimensions. In 1995, Regional Consulting (Austria) carried out a
study regarding land use in Tirana, and related these to road network, motorization and traffic;
this study offered ideas about future spatial development of the city and its transport network,
and the institutional and legal framework needed for effective urban planning, but did not go to
the level of discussing specific projects or other practical actions. Adding to several narrow-
focus studies carried out by ITS in the 1987-1992 period, Tirana's public transport has recently
(in 1994) been studied by international consultants (TRANSURB, Belgium), who produced a
development plan for public transport, inclusive of an action program to be implemented by the
Bus Transport Enterprise and Tirana Municipality. A follow up of this study in the form of
technical assistance is underway (by CGEA, France); it consists of training Tirana Municipality
staff in public transport management and regulation. On the traffic side, the most relevant recent
development has been the new Albanian Road Code, together with its implementation
regulations, which has laid out a comprehensive legislative basis needed for traffic management.



ANNEX 1.5
Page 2 of 10
B.    OBJECTIVES OF THE PROPOSED STUDY
4.    The objectives of the proposed Study is to develop a proposal for short-to-medium term
actions in traffic and transport, as well as a data bank whose usefulness would extend beyond
this particular exercise. The Study is meant to take a more multi-modal view than the preceding
ones, stress basic data collection, adopt a strategic orientation, and include technical assistance to
build a nucleus group in the local government to implement the most urgent actions. Moreover, it
is expected to prepare a multi-component transport investment project to a level sufficient for
appraisal by potential donors and/or lenders.
5.    More specifically, the Study would:
(i)   create a basic data base regarding the transport system, both the supply and
demand aspects, to be used as inputs for planning as well as for traffic/parking operations
management;
(ii)   carry out a wide-ranging diagnosis of the current urban transport situation and
prospects;
(iii)  propose a short-to-medium term urban transport strategy for Tirana in terms of
traffic and parking operations, public transport operations and road infrastructure; public
transport elements of the strategy may be taken over from the studies cited above;
(iv)   propose a resource-constrained 5-year (1999-2003) program of investments, as
well as legal, institutional, organizational and regulative actions, consistent with the strategy, to
be carried out by the Municipality of Tirana, and/or other relevant government bodies;
(v)   develop the investment parts of the program (in terms of designs, cost estimates,
justification, schedules and implementation arrangements) to a level sufficient for appraisal by
international finance institutions; investments scheduled to be start in the first year of the period
should be developed to a ready-to-tender level (as specified below);
(vi)  define in practical terms the next steps leading to the implementation of the key
recommended legislative, organizational, regulative or financial actions, by the city and/or the
national government; and
(vii)  propose studies and direct technical assistance needed for Tirana Municipality to
bring the proposed investments from the appraisal stage to tendering and beyond, implement
non-investment propositions and otherwise build local capacity to carry out similar activities in
the future.
6.    The Study is not meant to be a long-range planning exercise, and is not meant to produce
a master plan for roads and public transport systems. The pressures of the moment and the low



ANNEX 1.5
Page 3 of 10
absorptive capacity of local institutions place a constraint on the depth and extent of the work
possible and necessary at this time.
SCOPE OF WORK
7.    In line with the above expectations, the Study will have three parts. The first part will
consist of data collection, diagnostic analyses, and a proposed strategy; the second will focus on
the action program; and the third will focus on implementation capacity of the Municipality of
Tirana. The following three sections of these terms of reference are organized accordingly.
Part I: Current Problems, Trends, and Issues
8.    The focus of this part of the Study is to create a bank of essential data, sufficient for
diagnostic work, and subsequent strategy and action plan making. The Consultants are not
expected to carry out comprehensive (city wide) household surveys, modeling and forecasting,
but only selective traffic and network surveys. Prior to the commencement of the Study, the
Municipality of Tirana will assemble a list of data available to them, including reports from the
above cited transport studies. This part of the Study will consist of the following tasks:
9.    Task I-1: Data Collection. Data sought will comprise:
- city and motorization data from published sources or municipal/national government
archives: area, land use patterns and growth characteristics, population, densities, economic base,
employment, household economic data, income distribution, etc.; ownership data and trends for
2- and 4-wheeled motorized and non-motorized vehicles; breakdown between individual vs.
institutional ownership;
- a detailed inventory of primary and secondary roads, including functional category,
geometric characteristics, signs, markings and signals, lighting, pavement type, and
pavement/drainage condition (visual survey only); the inventory is to be entered into a
computerized data base compatible with the latest version of the World Bank's Highway Design
Model (HDM);
- a selective inventory and condition survey of the tertiary network;
- inventory of terminals and other major transport facilities;
- traffic surveys (exclusive of intersection traffic surveys that may be necessary for
subsequent design tasks): (1) hourly classified traffic counts to be carried out by the Consultants
on major radial and ring roads, according to a plan of screen lines and cordons to be developed
by the Consultants after they carry out the road inventory; for orientation, it is envisaged that 20
counting stations will be needed; (2) daily (week-long) counts to be done at 5 locations where
hourly counts were made; (3) travel speed surveys for major itineraries; (4) road-side, termninal
and in-vehicle traveler surveys (the last two for public transport passengers). Traveler surveys are
expected to yield the first-cut estimates of: peak traffic volumes and daily variations; origin-



ANNEX 1.5
Page 4 of 10
destination patterns, trip purposes, lengths and frequencies and trip-maker characteristics; modal
split between walking, bicycling, public transport (regular and para-transit), private and non-
private cars on major roads;
- traffic and parking management policies in place or proposed;
- public transport system (supply): organization, fleet, services, fares, staffing and costs,
passengers and revenues (from past studies);
- public transport policies of the Municipality, or those proposed by the recent studies;
- charges for road use and/or vehicle ownership (gas or other tax, registration, parking
charges, etc);
- vehicle operating costs (adjusted costs from HDM may be used), travel time and other
traveler costs;
- levels of current (and perspective) municipal/national spending for traffic, roads and
public transport in Tirana, by source, amount and subject, against total current and capital
spending by Tirana Municipality;
- a survey of investments and /or other actions underway or imminent;
- organization, jurisdictions, staffing and financing of local government, role in urban
transport relative to that of the national government.
10.   Task I-2: Diagnostic Report. A concise diagnostic report on urban transport in Tirana
will be made on the basis of the data collected in Task I- 1, and subsequent analyses. The
consultants are specifically asked to establish linkages between symptoms ("problems") observed
on the street, or reported by various segments of the community and institutions, and weak spots
or development bottlenecks in regulative, investment, financial and institutional spheres. Major
issues are to be identified. It is emphasized that this is a crucial task of the Study.
11.   Task 1-3: Urban Transport Strategy for Tirana. A preferred strategy for the short-to-
medium term will be prepared and cross-referenced to some set of objectives ("vision") for
economic and social development of the city. The strategy will consist of priority instruments
drawn from some or all of the following action areas: capital investments (including
rehabilitation), current spending (e.g. for maintenance), other technical instruments (e.g. pricing,
traffic restraints, other traffic management, enforcement), institutions, organization, jurisdiction,
regulation, resource generation, balance between current/capital spending, and other. Close
cooperation with the Municipality and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport will be
required in this task. All financial aspects of the strategy will present the narrow sectoral views
against the wider perspective of municipal finance.



ANNEX 1.5
Page 5 of 10
Part II: Five-year Action Program
12.   The Action Program will be an operational expression of the proposed strategy. It will
consist both of the direct measures (e.g. investments) to improve the efficiency and quality of
urban transport, and rmeasures to improve the delivery system (local institutions) so that they can
take an increasing role in implementation, monitoring and planning further actions. As concerns
the investments, the focus will be on proposing low-cost road and traffic improvement schemes,
policies and operational measures aimed at alleviation of immediate and short term problems,
while also making the most effective use of the existing road network and facilities. A special
attention is to be paid to measures to protect and enhance the performance of walking, bicycling
and public transport rnodes. Schemes and policies must be capable of rapid implementation in
the context of low capacity of local institutions.
13.   For the works schemes recommended in the Action Program which would involve civil
works, the Consultarts will produce designs, schedules, cost estimates, and cost-benefit analysis,
all at the level permitting appraisal by potential international donors and/or lenders. For
equipment purchase end installation (such as traffic signal systems), the consultant will prepare
functional specifications, cost estimates and justification in cost-benefit terms. For technical
assistance, training etc., the consultant will prepare the terms of reference, cost estimates, and
justification in non-quantitative terms. The proposed tendering methods for each category of
recommendations will be stated. The output should be in the form of stand-alone technical
papers (please consult the section on reports below).
14.   For those elerments of the Action Program which are recommended for implementation in
the first year of the 5-year period, subject to Tirana Municipality's and MPWT agreement, the
preparation will include designs and bid documents which would permit tendering without any
further technical work. Tender packages will be prepared using standard procurement documents
used by the World Bank.
15.   For all other elements of the Action Program, next steps and their schedule will be
specified to bring them from where this part of the Study left off to the actual implementation in
the field. As necessary, the terms of reference will be written for preliminary and/or detailed
engineering, as per the next steps specified. If a full-scale feasibility study is deemed necessary
for any one element of the proposal, the terms of reference for such a study should be included.
16.   Given the size of the budget envisaged for this Study, a series of measures have been pre-
selected for priority consideration and preparation. These are presented below as a sequence of
tasks. After the Consultants complete the data collection and diagnostic part of the Study, they
will advise the client as to the utility of adding, redefining or dropping tasks.
17.   Task HI-1: Traffic Signals Program. An action program is to be developed to upgrade
traffic control in Tirana, through installation of new control equipment, some degree of
interconnection, and enforcement. The specific tasks will include:



ANNEX 1.5
Page 6 of 10
- traffic data collection and analysis at major intersections;
- development of alternative policies of installing, programming, extending,
interconnecting, and/or otherwise upgrading signal installations;
- comparison of alternatives, and justification for the recommended one;
- consultation with and within the Municipality, leading to selection of the most
attractive option;
- for the selected option, preparation of a functional plan which will define, inter alia:
*     the extent, location and type of signal control proposed (if any);
*     the extent, location and type of linking (if any);
*     the type of data transmission proposed;
*     other facilities necessary for the system to function (e.g. detectors, etc.)
*     the proposed maintenance plan and arrangements;
*     designs for improved layout at intersections;
*     costs estimate including all civil works, on-street and central equipment etc.;
*     justification in cost-benefit terms;
*     recommended bidding procedure (1-stage or 2-stage bid);
*t    an implementation schedule; and
*     technical and commercial bidding documents
18.   Task 11-2: Central Area Traffic Scheme. It is proposed to implement a comprehensive
scheme for pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicles, public transport, and parking for the central
area of Tirana. The objectives of the scheme are to: (i) improve conditions for the movement of
people within the area, giving preference to non-motorized and public transport modes; and (ii)
improve accessibility to the central area and interfaces between access routes and the central area
network. The fundamental elements of the scheme will be:
- allocation of streets and sub-zones to different uses, i.e. pedestrian-only area, traffic
routes, bike-only routes, public transport preferential routes, loading/unloading,
- a circulation plan based on the above allocation;
- improved road connections between the central area and outlying areas, with the aim of
improving access to the central area but protect its internal activities;
- intersection improvements in the area;
- improvements to terminals, if any;
- revised traffic signals in conjunction with the Traffic Signal Program (Task 11-1 above)
and the intersection plans, and



ANNEX 1.5
Page 7 of 10
- protection of environmentally sensitive sub-areas.
19.   Task 11-3: Traffic Management Schemes for Conflict Points. Several major
intersections and/or road sections outside the central area, which are known to experience
operational or safety problems, will need to be improved in terms of layout, channelization, signs
and markings, bus bays, etc.. In the first week of the Study, the client will prepare and pass on to
the Consultants a provisional list of these.
20.   Task 11-5: Parking Management. The consultants will analyze the current parking
situation and practices in the central area, and propose a rudimentary parking management
program. This may involve the allocation of on-street parking among short- and long-term
parkers, the location of signs and/or meters, parking charges, and a proposed
administrative/enforcement arrangement.
21.   Task 11-6: Horizontal and Vertical Signing Program. Horizontal and vertical road
signing in Tirana is generally not of a good standard. The component will:
- prepare a rudimentary traffic signing program for the central area, and arterial roads
outside the center, involving about  km of streets and roads;
- ensure consistency with other programs; and
- assess the equipment and budgetary needs for the program.
22.   Task 11-6: Road Rehabilitation Program. On the basis of the road condition survey, the
Consultants will develop a prioritized 5-year rehabilitation for Tirana roads. This will involve
the following sub-tasks:
(1)   definition of rehabilitation standards and unit costs with respects to cross sections
(including widening), surface and pavement treatment; basic traffic engineering; and drainage;
(2)   rehabbilitation program definition and cost estimation; cost estimates will be made
by section, with accuracy of plus or minus 15%, presented to distinguish the costs of works,
equipment, detailed design/supervision, physical contingencies, land acquisition, price
contingencies, and taxes.
(3)   prioritization according to the traffic function, present condition, cost, and
economics; economic evaluation should be based on savings in vehicle operating costs and travel
times, with results expressed in both net present values and internal rates of return; given
uncertainties about traffic growth and composition, the use of first-year method is encouraged, to
be supplemented by sensitivity analyses; also, the use of HDM model for prioritization (and
economic evaluation) is encouraged;



ANNEX 1.5
Page 8 of 10
(4)   preparation of designs and bid documents for the first year program, including
physical surveys, location of utilities, pavement designs and specifications (including surface
treatment), traffic engineering designs, technical and commercial volumes of bidding documents,
implementation schedule, and final cost estimates (10% accuracy sought).
23.   Task II-7: Legal and Policy Reforms. In addition to physical schemes and investments,
the Consultants will propose critical actions involving legal (jurisdictional) and policy actions,
whether these be by the Municipality of Tirana, or by branches of the national government.
24.   Task II-8: Financial Analysis. This task is listed last, which does not imply that it
should be the last to get done. The Consultants will carry out a first-cut analysis of Tirana
Municipality finances, for both sources and applications, establishing a realistic resource
constraint within which the proposed action program must fit. Propositions to improve resource
generation are invited, especially as concerns funding and cost recovery for urban roads.
Part III: Building Implementation Capacity
25.   The Study will take place at a very difficult time in that the Municipality of Tirana does
not have any traffic engineers in its employ. It is therefore necessary for the Consultants to go
beyond spelling out exact steps to be taken in moving from propositions in the Action Program
(Part II above) to their implementation, and set out who is going to manage this process in the
short term, and what to do in parallel to build up the local capacity to carry out these tasks in the
future. This will include the following tasks:
26.   Task III-1: Institutional Analysis. Evaluation of the municipal organization for
technical activities including the structure, distribution of roles and responsibilities, personnel in
terms of numbers and skills, work practices, facilities and equipment, financial resources, and the
coordination with national and other agencies/parties.
27.   Task III-2: A staffing Plan for a Road and Traffic Management Unit (or Division).
This would include a recommended staffing set-up to be financed through technical assistance,
aiming for the capacity to manage the implementation of the Action Program. It is expected that
a combination of expatriate and local staff will be necessary. A cost estimate for the plan will be
developed.
28.   Task 111-3: Training Plan for the Local Staff. This is expected to combine on-the-job-
training with external training and/or hiring, with a schedule for gradual introduction of local
staff into the Unit's management and other positions. A cost estimate for training will be
provided.
29.   Task 111-4: Traffic Police. The above three steps will also be carried out for the Traffic
Police to the degree not covered by the ongoing safety improvement program.



ANNEX 1.5
Page 9 of 10
STUDY ADMINISTRATION
30.   The Budget. It is expected that the Consultants' team will be a combination of expatriate
specialists and the local staff. The nominal budget for the Study is about 35 person-months for
expatriates and 25 person-months for local staff, all of which would be spent in Tirana over 8-12
calendar months, counted 30 days from the mobilization order.
31.   Appointment and Preparation Schedule. The schedule for the appointment of
consultants and for the completion of the work is expected to be as follows:
RFP issued by to selected consultants by
Consultants proposals received by
Negotiate and prepare draft consultants contract
Review of evaluation and draft contract by
Consultants contract signed
Consultants commence work
Consultants complete draft final report
32.   Location of Work. The Study will be carried out in Tirana, in offices arranged for by the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport.
33.   Provision of Support. The Consultant will be responsible for the provision of all
logistics for the conduct of the Study including data processing equipment, vehicles (including
running costs), secretarial staff, translation /translators, office supplies, photocopier/photocopies,
printing of reports etc. Counterpart personnel of the Municipality of Tirana, Transport institute
and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport will be provided at no charge to the preparation
study. The authorities will provide technician staff for traffic counts and other site checks at no
charge to the consultants.
34.   Consultants' Study Team. In their proposal, the composition of the study team will be
defined by the Consultants on the basis of their appreciation of the requirements of the
preparation study. The core team, expected to have continuous presence in Tirana throughout the
Study is likely to include:
- a transport engineer/planner (team leader);
- a traffic engineer;
- road engineer.
35.   Shorter-term visits may be called for by experts such as a geometric designer, traffic
signal specialist, transport economist and other.



ANNEX 1.5
Page 10 of 10
36.   Outputs and Reporting. In line with standard practice, the following reports will be
required, in Albanian and English:
- a brief Inception Report, one month after the start in the field;
- Diagnostic and Strategy Report, four months after the starting date;
- a self-contained Final Report, focusing on the proposed Action Program and the
Implementation Plan, but also briefly summarizing the diagnostic and strategy aspects;
- Technical Reports, one for each element of the Action Program, such as cited in the
Scope of Work above;
- Tender packages for the first-year program;
- brief Monthly Reports on progress, problems and next activities.



ALBANIA
Durres Port Project
Organization Chart of the Ministrv of Public works and Transport
.  . .. . .. . .
Cabinet                                             MNSE
| Cabinet l .               .. .........                                                               ...                .....m  .    .
........,s                                                                                                                          v,,' '""              .....,.
Dep    eat  flop  teens        of Public        Technical       ~~Epnrcnit f  1c pfxto                                                                 prm         Dof   paceIn                              De=atmn
en  DCPxm-                      of P~~~~~utb i   fe poecif    De-eopmnt                                                                                                                                                               ofnitnmDpateto  eelpei  )C
So            fPT,t.,a          C                Natniont       Conscoon               nd           Enterprises'     oFren           DoTrasport                           of Technical     lnfonnoatioia     P pactnoit-f osoo
1-14   Naaonal                              -d           Pri-tiatw~~~~~~~~~~~~roltinDeveolpmenit    onid Toiasor1,                                Tcchnooligy                           n   orar
Objects            CoorPdivnatiotio                I                                                                                                                      -          AuditiIspetit
c                            D. De-lopi.ent    , dm ta                                                S      of        S      .             cot f
lo, ru~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nt     Faacugotd                                                    PblcPesarl                                            Sctro
ect,                  ~~~~~Economic       Scto  fctotorof                                                         ectoro            t o              occ  fScoco                          etro
De-elopmient        Auto -                                                Sa-aNTogi,,Fiane n
C,                      ~~~~~~~foc Roads   Tasort                                               Tnsot              Wocks            rnso            Acoiegcontg                           Trsot
DSveclopmcfo
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Srie  Control I
f., | X     r    I       t,-p|                                                                                                                  Sector oft
.  |  Erecatse AgencY   | |    Committee of    ||ofNatinechcal SeVtur |    Project ianmretagement Prt
of Hnatiitg  Huge Dma              ~~of National WaterMrigmrUi
Coce         lJ (PAE                                                                           (Wrl Bnk
CncC _                                               I
Secto of  Sectol of                                                                                                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eto o
eonal- R1u                 eru Directorateof             Natiol l  Nt  Cienal           l DirectoraInsttute of study                        Ca tir                                   teitt of Studies
|Directorate      |          a|  Supply and              of Hosing  |           of ConDtmtionPoic         e | ail Design of Ib                                         ICiil Aaiti                of Trals   InspctiotI                                  >
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Irtigulian                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Projects                                                            rspt
E,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Traffic through the Port of Durres, 1993-1997
current handling mode              1993       1994      1995       1996 1997 (9 mos.)
Exports through the port
Chrome ore                          bulk                             79,979     89,243    46,120     73,288       35,987
Chrome concentrate                  bulk                             12,792     30,176    39,810      19,081      18,336
Ferro-Chrome                        bulk                             31,501     40,092    28,445     44,232       21,855
Cast iron                           bulk                             10,000          --    6,533          --
Coal                                bulk                                  --        --    17,882     24,110         521
Superphosphate                      bulk                                  -          --    4,178     25,901       11,289
Sulfur                              bulk                                 --         --      8,938      1,585        700
Various cargo as general cargo      general cargo                     5,544      1,464      4,535     4,180        4,902
Various cargo in containers         containers                        2,609      2,746      1,249      1,505       1,049
Wine in transit from Macedonia      tankers unloaded into trucks      5,641      10,017    14,217         --
Transit cargo                       break bulk/general cargo                         -       591          --
Subtotal                                                            148,066    173,738   172,498    193,882       94,640
Exports through ferry terminal
Subtotal                            truck/trailer, container              -          --   110,603    59,185       38,903
Total exports                                                       148,066    173,738   283,101    253,067      133,543
Imports through the port
Wheat, barley, maize                bulk                            306,000     66,000    23,296    218,924       68,660
Rice                                bags on pallets/pre-slung        31,193      1,504      5,607     18,017       7,824
Flour                               bags on pallets/pre-slung       121,529     84,547    34,356    114,216       87,161
Sugar                               bags on pallets                  33,789     28,463    43,867     79,286       24,996
Cement                              bags on pallets                  19,175     93,760    96,160    140,752      298,827
Urea, nitrate, phosphate, sulfur    bulk                                 --    13,832    29,960      80,127       33,535
CoaVcokes                           bulk                             39,312     21,765    27,462     28,008       16,370
Silicium sand                       bulk                                 --      4,129        --          -
Building materials (bricks, tiles, steel)  on pallets                    --         --    11,717      30,781      19,905
Liquid (naphta, petrol, oils)       liquid                              550    104,215   154,907     48,816       11,322
Foodstuffs                          bags/boxes on pallets/pre-slung  33,944     22,017    16,497      16,890       9,046
Miscellaneous                                                                                        26,745       17,295
Transit cargo                                                           304      5,315      2,504         -
Subtotal                                                            585,796    445,547   446,333    802,562      594,941
Imports through the ferry terminal
Subtotal                            truck, container                      --        --  222,394    119,006        78,225
Total imports                                                       585,796    445,547   668,727    921,568      673,166
Grand total importexport through port                               733,862    619,285   618,831    996,444      689,581                >
Grand total import/export ferry terminal                                 --         --   332,997    178,191      117,128
Grand total                                                         733,862    619,285   951,828  1.174,635      806,709



ALBANIA
DuRREs PORT PROJECT
PDA Privatization and Manpower Action Plan
PDA staff by Department
Date     Action                                 Management  Operations   Economic    Technical    Services         Total
01 Jan 9  Initial PDA Staff                             140         792           32          519          37         1520
1/  01 Mar 98  Cleaning & Seamen's club Privatized               4                        8          13           20           45
2/   01 Mar 98  2 General Cargo Profit Centers Created          46          704                                               750
3/  (01 Apr 98  Truckers Fleet Privatized                                    30                                                30)
4/   01 Jan 99  Technical Profit Center Created                 46                                   383                      429
5/   01 Jan 99  2 General Cargo Profit Centers Privatized                                                               750 (433*)
6/   30 Sep99  Technical Profit Center Privatized                                                                       431(152*)
Remaining PDA Staff                            44           88           24          123          17          296
(landlord port with equipment)
NOTE: *staff expected to leave and receive compensation packages. All redundant staff will receive one year compensation in accordance with Decision
No. 96 of the Council of Ministers dated February 24, 1997.
t.J



Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 4
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Project Coordinator
Terms of Reference
A.   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.    The Durres Port Project will operate through a five-year implementation period (1998-
2002) and will provide for rehabilitation of the port infrastrucuture facilities and equipment in
Durres, and for transfer of port commercial operations to private operators through a
concessioning process. In addition, it will assist in the development of the technical and
managerial capacity of the Port of Durres Authority (PDA) as a landlord port authority.
2.    Port works will be undertaken under FIDIC organization with the PDA as the
"Employer," international consultants in collaboration with local engineers/consultants acting
as the "Engineer," providing adaptive designs, if required, and construction supervision, and
private contractors responsible for detailed implementation.
3.    The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Public Works (MPWT) and PDA
with the assistance of a Project Management Unit (PMU) located in MPWT. The PMU will
be assisted by a Project Coordinator, who will be an experienced international consultant.
He/she will commence the assignment with a six-month inception phase immediately
following approval of the project scheduled for about June 1998. During the inception phase,
the Project Coordinator will the PMU to prepare and coordinate the physical implementation
of the project, which is scheduled to start in January 1999, focusing on the execution of port
rehabilitation works, including the prequalification and bidding processes for the selection of
contractors.
4.    On the basis of the above, the Project Coordinator will be an international consultant
with wide knowledge and experience in project management and procurement. He should be
experienced in project coordination, have carried out a similar assignment elsewhere in the
region, and employed by the firm for at least three years. The duration of services would be
30 months.
B.   OBJECTIVES
5.    The Project Coordinator will provide a single channel of command for the project to
ensure that an up-to-date focus of knowledge and managerial experience is available for
appropriate planning, financial monitoring and progress reporting to the Government of
Albania (GOA) departments, to the World Bank (IDA), and to other project donors. The
Project Coordinator will expand PDA's capacity to manage the project, whilst remaining
within PDA's established structure. An important responsibility of the Project Coordinator is



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 4
to ensure that the iunds provided are utilized so as to maintain the proper balance between
project beneficiaries and maximize overall benefits.
C.  SCOPE OF WORK
6.    The Project Coordinator will be responsible to the Chief of the PMU who in turn will
report to the Minister of MPWT. The PMU will be supported by professional/supporting staff
and the specialists of other departments within PDA. The Project Coordinator will work
closely with, and receive support from, the international consultants in charge of the
supervision of port works. He will be required to work for a period of 30 months (para 4
above), and during the six first months of this period he will act with reduced support. His
main responsibilities during this period will be organization of the project, and selection of the
required project support. The main tasks of the Project Coordination are described below.
7.    Project Coordination.  The Project Coordinator, through the PMU, will be
responsible for liaison between MPWT, PDA, with other Government ministries as required,
with IDA, and project cofinanciers, and with the international consultants. He will ensure that
an official, practical and efficient liaison is maintained with other responsible entities for
Government prograLms, in particular the management of other potential port development
programs along the coastline.
8.    Planning and Budgeting of Works. The Project Coordinator will be responsible,
through the PMU, for annual and quarterly reports, as required by the IDA. He will provide
detailed plans for implementation and ensure that the PDA, the consultants and any other
project-related bodies are fully involved and provide all required basic information. He will
coordinate preparation of the project budget, and ensure that any administrative procedure for
both budget, preparation and expenditures are in compliance with prevailing Government and
IDA regulations.
9.    Resource Allocation and Release of Funds. The project budget will be contained in
the investment budget for ports of MPWT but will be clearly separable since the IDA credit
and cofinancier's participations (OPEC Fund) will flow through a special account operated at
a commercial bank in Tirana. The Project Coordinator will be expected to:
(i)   provide documented submission of withdrawal applications to IDA and other
cofinancier to permiit this account to be replenished in time to ensure that payments to
contractors are not dlelayed, and that the progress of works and services are adhered to; and
(ii)  arrange provision of letters of credit to permit the consultants to undertake the
international procurement required by the project, and to make payments to the consultants in
accordance with their contract.
10.   Selection of International Consultants Services and Equipment Required for the
Project. An early and urgent task of the Project Coordinator will be to advance the selection,



Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 4
and negotiation/award of contract to the international engineering (supervision of works)
consultants team, as well as arrangements for the privatization consultants and
implementation of the training program. Following this award, he will provide assistance to
the consultants in all matters connected with relations with Government, and ensure
maximum utilization of the consultants in accordance with consultants' Terms of Reference.
11.   He will assist the consultants in defining items requiring international procurement,
including vehicles and equipment for use by GOA personnel and the consultants during the
implementation of the project. He will arrange letters of credit following IDA approval of
these items, and create and maintain an assets register for all Government equipment and
goods procured under the project.
12.  Issue of Guidelines for and Finalization of Pre-qualification and Bidding
Documents. The Project Coordinator is responsible for the rapid and correct appointment of
contractors. He will, with the supervision consultants, finalize the pre-qualification and
bidding documents, after issuance of related procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines.
He will provide the advice and support required such that PDA is able to rapidly and
effectively undertake the above pre-qualification and bidding processes.
D.   REPORTING, MONITORING OF PROGRESS, QUALITY AND
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
13.   Reporting. The efficient disbursement of project funds to the Government of Albania
by the IDA and cofinancier depends upon proper reporting to them of physical progress,
development of institutions, quality of works, and financial performance.  It is the
responsibility of the Project Coordinator to provide such reporting on time, and to meet the
content requirements as may be required from time to time by IDA. Reporting, Accounting
and Auditing requirements are shown in paras. 3.25-3.30 of the Staff Appraisal Report.
14.   Monitoring. The Project Coordinator will be responsible for providing financial
monitoring of all expenditures under the credit and for requesting such assistance from the
consultants and the PDA to ensure this occurs. This includes, among other requirements,
quarterly and annual progress and financial reports to the GOA, IDA, and cofinancier, in
accordance with their reporting requirements.
15.   Quality Performance.  The Project Coordinator will also provide comprehensive
information on rehabilitation and new construction works, including the extent of work
progress, labor involvement, work quality and payments due and made to contractors, and the
overall situation. He will include progress reports on institutional developments, including
consultant and contractor support and performance of consultants. He will provide copies of
any amended design proposals, consultants construction manuals and port operational
performance indicators. The basic monitoring framework will be as provided in the Annex
3.11, Project Monitoring Indicators, but will be supplemented and, if required, improved in
cooperation with the consultants.



Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 4
16.   Financial Performance. Another responsibility of the Project Coordinator will be to
prepare and provide to GOA, IDA, and cofinancier, quarterly statements on all financial
records including (i) withdrawals from IDA credit, OPEC Fund, GOA's participation with
copies of disbursement requests and related documentation, (ii) records of transactions of the
Project account including copies of bank statements and balances, and (iii) information on any
outstanding clainis to IDA and to the Project by contractors or arising from procurement.
E.   TECHNICAL SERVICES TO PDA
17.   The Project Coordinator will provide to PDA any details of technical standards
required, results of any technical audits which have not been conducted locally, and, in
general, information of any important aspect of the project.
F.  ESTIMATED MANPOWER
18.   Preliminary estimate of Project Coordinator's manpower amounts to 30 m/m.



Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 5
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Supervision of Rehabilitation Works
Terms of Reference
A.   SCOPE OF WORKS
1.    The Government of Albania (GOA) has requested assistance from the World Bank,
International Development Association (IDA), and other donors for a program of
rehabilitation and strengthening of infrastructure facilities in the Port of Durres. The Port of
Durres Authority (PDA), under the tutelage of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MPWT), will be responsible for the supervision of the works to be carried out by prequalified
contractors selected through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
2.    The project includes the following elements:
a) Port Civil Works: The works comprise:
- rebuilding the windscreen and repairs to the armor of the main breakwater (which
was constructed during World War II), the poor state of which may otherwise
endanger all port operations;
- full repairs to quays 1 and 6, which would otherwise become unsafe to operate
within 5 or 6 years, thus lowering port throughput by an estimated 20%;
- rebuilding or recasting the coping beam face of quays 2 to 4, 7 and 8, and grouting
up voids in quays 2 to 4;
- replacing tie rods in the east quay;
- new fenders;
- surfacing and drainage behind quays 4, 5 and 6, and between quay 2 and the PDA
office;
- resurfacing the road from quay 8 to the new port road and surfacing new access
roads to the container yard and to the east quay.
b) Navigation Aids:  the entrance channel to the port of Durres has been badly
maintained; half of the buoys are missing and others need to be replaced.
c) Port Lighting: a new lighting network is required on the entire port of Durres area.
d)  Warehouses and Workshop: Following the recommendations of the Port Master Plan
Study, up to three port warehouses would be rehabilitated to provide a bonded
warehouse for Customs and facilitate leasing or concessioning.
e) Modernization of Cranes:  Seven cranes will be rehabilitated, while five new 5-ton
cranes will be procured.
2.    The rehabilitation works will be packaged according to the following contract
groupings:



Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 5
a)  civil works: breakwater strengthening, berths rehabilitation and fendering
b) pavement and drainage
c) warehouses and workshop refurbishment
d) cranes rehabilitation
e) new cranes
f)  lighting network; and
g) navigation aids.
The total implementation period of the whole program would be forty eight (48) months with
individual contractual periods varying between twelve (12) and twenty four (24) months. The
maintenance period for each contract would be twelve (12) months.
3.    On behalf of MPWT, the PDA proposes to invite technical and financial proposals
from shortlisted Consultants to assist in bid evaluation, construction supervision, and
maintenance services of the works on the basis of the available designs and bidding
documents. The Consultants' team will be assisted by a PDA team designed for supervision of
each contract.
4.    The supervision team and man-months (m/in) for the supervision of all works and
equipment contracts, would be proposed by the Consultants on the basis of the contracts'
characteristics and construction periods, and would include, at least, a chief Engineer, a
Mechanical Engineer, and an Inspector/Surveyor. The Consultants would indicate the support
required from PDA's staff for each contract.
B.   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SUPERVISION
CONSULTANT
5.    The Supervision Consultant will administer the works contracts and ensure that
contractual clauses, whether related to quality or quantities of work, are respected. He/she
will make the necessary measurements and control the quality of works, and will make all
engineering decisions-including improvement of designs, if necessary-required for the good
implementation of the contract. However, the Supervision Consultant will seek prior approval
of the PDA to:
(a)   issue any variation order with financial implications, except in an
emergency situation, as reasonably determined by the Supervision
Consultant;
(b)   issue variations in work quantities;
(c)   sanction additional items, sums or costs;
(d)   approve the subletting of any part of the works; and
(e)   approve any extension of the Time for Completion.
6.    The Supervision Consultant will carry out the following tasks:



Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 5
(a)   issue the order to commence the works;
(b)   administer the civil works contracts, approve the materials and
quality of the works in accordance with the contractual
specifications;
(c)   approve the Contractor's work program and the source of
materials;
(d)   approve the Contractor's working drawings including variations
thereof, approve the setting-out of the works and, give instructions
to the contractor in this regard;
(e)   ascertain and determine by measurement the value of the works in
accordance with the Contract;
(f)   issue interim certificates for monthly payments, and certify
completion of parts or the totality of the works;
(g)   order tests of materials and of completed works, and order the
removal of improper or substandard works
(h)   ensure that operational safety is met before commencing the
works, and issue any work plan or drawing in that respect;
(i)   inspect the works during the maintenance period, and issue the
maintenance certificate in consultation with PDA;
()   provide on-the-job training to all seconded PDA personnel; and
(k)   advise PDA on all matters related to the execution of the contracts
including processing of the Contractors' claims.
C.   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE RESIDENT ENGINEER
AND ITS STAFF
7.    The Resident Engineer and its staff are under overall control of the Supervision
Consultant (the Engineer's Representative), and shall carry out such duties and exercise
authority as may be delegated to him by the Engineer. The main responsibilities of the
Resident Engineer are to:
(a)   inspect performance of works in compliance with specifications,
order, supervise or perform tests on materials and approve or
disapprove the contractor's plant and equipment;
(b)   check systematically the progress of the work, examine and attend
the measurement of any work that is about to be covered, and
order, if required, uncovering of unsatisfactory works and its
satisfactory reconstruction;
(c)   check Contractor's invoices, claims and other statements with
respect to arithmetical errors and compliance with the contract;
(d)   supervise the contractor in all matters conceming safety and care of
the works, and direct operations in case of an emergency situation



Annex 3.2
Page 4 of 5
affecting the safety of life, of the works,.or of adjoining property;
(e)   verify and, if necessary, correct the "as built" drawings supplied by
the contractor;
(f)   carry out, at least, three maintenance inspection visits during the
Defects Liability Period (equivalent to the one-year contractual
maintenance period); and
(g)   carry out such duties, as may be delegated in writing from the
Consultant, under the terms of the contract.
D.   ADDITIONAL CLAUSE
8.    The Consultant, in the person of the Resident Engineer should advise and help PDA in
the prequalification of Contractors and in the evaluation of bids for each of the seven
contracts. He will, if and when required by PDA, visit Durres for as many days as required,
and advise the procurement/selection team established for the prequalification process and for
the evaluation of bids. He would take an active and important role in the preparation of the
bids evaluation report. The fees for this service should be specified in the Consultant's offer
duly separated fromn those of supervision of works (for which these T.O.R. are mainly meant)
on the base of daily fees. Therefore, the Resident Engineer (or, as an exception, any other
member of the team and/or of the Consultants' firm) should have significant experience in
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (I.C.B.) according to IDA procedures.
He should be experienced in supervision of rehabilitation works, have carried out a similar
assignment elsewhere in the region, and employed by the firm for at least three years.
E.   REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS
9.    The Consultants shall furmish to the PDA the following reports and documents in:
English:
(a)   Monthly Progress Reports (5 copies) commencing at the end of the
month following the date of agreement signed between the
Contractor and PDA for construction of works, and ending at the
end of the month in which the issue of the provisional completion
certificate, i.e., the starting date of the one-year contractual
maintenance period, takes place;
(b)   Completion Report (10 copies) at the time of the final completion
of works (Final Completion Certificate issued at the end of the
contractual maintenance period);
(c)   As-Built drawings (one original and five copies) of the project as
soon as possible after completion of the project; and
(d)   Maintenance Inspection Reports (10 copies) after each maintenance
inspection.



Annex 3.2
Page 5 of 5
10.   The Consultant should carry out, at least, three maintenance inspection visits during
the one-year maintenance contractual period to be established for the maintenance of works
after completion.
11.   The Contractor shall provide the Consultant furnished office and residential space, and
transportation free of charge as per bidding documents. The Contractor shall also provide
additional technical services duly justified.
12.   The Consultant and its expatriate staff shall be exempt from payment of income tax.
The PDA shall assist the Consultant in obtaining any entry/exit visa, or other official
formalities required to satisfactorily fulfill their work. However, the cost of the same shall be
borne by the Consultant.
13.   Any reports, documents, drawings, and in general, any available information related to
the design and execution of the works shall be made available by the PDA to the Consultant.
14.   All documentation related to works is, and will remain after completion of works,
PDA's property. The Consultant can not use or dispose of this documentation without
previous written consent.
F.  ESTIMATED MANPOWER
15.   An initial estimate of required Consultants' manpower (30 m/m Resident Engineer; 6
m/m Mechanical Engineer; and 18 m/m Inspector/Surveyor) amounts to 54 m/m. The
Consultants should provide an estimate of the local manpower (in m/m and qualifications)
required from PDA.



Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 5
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Secondary Ports Development Study
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    The Albanian economy is now being transformed from a central planning system to
a market economy. In this context, the Government is revising its port development policy
in order to adapt: the sector to the new economic pattern. While the new institutional
framework is being designed with the general view to enhance the autonomous
administrative and financial management of the commercial port sector, there is a
complementary need for a comprehensive assessment of the present and future potential of
all existing port facilities along the Albanian shoreline.
2.    The port sector is under the authority of the Transport Directorate in the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport (MPWT). Its authority includes every aspect of port
activities: infrastructure management, vessels calls management, handling, storage, and
delivery of cargo. The Navy carries out hydrographic surveys in port access channels, and
manages the navigation aids along the coastline and the beacons network for ports access.
The Harbour Master's Offices, which grant ships entrance and departure authorization,
operate for the time being under the Ministry of Defense.
3.    There are four ports along the Albanian shoreline: Durres (located 40 km south of
Tirana), Vlora (90 km south of Durres), Saranda (160 km south of Durres), and Shengjini
(60 km north of Durres). Durres handles 85 percent of the country's international maritime
traffic. It has 9/10 berths (2,000 m) with a draught from 7 to 9.85 m. The second port of
the country, Vlora, offers three berthing places of 100 m long each and five to nine meters
deep. Vlora is also the most important fishing port of Albania. Saranda and Shengjini do
not handle any significant amount of traffic.
4.    The port of Durres has already been subject of a Port Development Master Plan
Study, financed under the World Bank supported First Transport Project. The European
Union is now financing under the PHARE program a Master Plan Study for the port of
Vlora, which is underway. In order to complete the development strategy of the national
port sector, MPWT has asked the World Bank to include within the Durres Port Project
now being financed a development study of the two secondary ports of Saranda and
Shengjini. This study is the subject of the present tenns of reference.
B.   OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
5.    The purpose of the present Secondary Ports Development Study is to provide a
development perspective for the ports of Saranda and Shengjini, consistent with the plans



Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 5
under consideration for Durres and Vlora, as presented in the existing and ongoing studies.
The Consultants will therefore have to carefully take into account the conclusions of these
works when carrying out the present study.
6.    The ports of Saranda and Shengjini are handling mostly passengers and fishing
activities, with little commercial traffic. In order to determine an appropriate development
scenario for these ports, the following questions will have to be reviewed:
(a) assessment of the technical conditions of present infrastructure and equipment in
the ports;
(b) assessment of current operating conditions of the port facilities;
(c) environmental assessment of the port areas and of port operations;
(d) statistical review of recent activities and assessment of potential market demand
for various kinds of port services in the short, medium and long term;
(e) assessment of the role to be played by the two ports within the Albanian national
transportation system on one hand, and within the regional development planning
on the other; and
(f) in the light of the above considerations, proposals of specific development options,
including appropriate institutional arrangements, in consistency with the overall
integrated coastal zone management policy to be implemented nationwide.
C.    SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
7.    The Consultants shall perform all engineering work, the collection and analysis of
every technical, operational and economic data, as required to attain the objectives set forth
in paras.5 and 6 above. The Consultants shall conduct these studies in consultation with
MPWT, through the involvement of the Transport Directorate and the Saranda and
Shengjini port offices. The Consultants shall, however, be solely responsible for the
analysis and interpretation of all data received and for the findings, conclusions and
recommendations contained in their reports.
8.    In particular, the Consultants' activities will include, without being limited to, the
review and analysis of the following aspects:
8.1    Technical Assessment of Existing Port Facilities
The Consultants will review the present physical conditions of existing port facilities,
including all marine structures, berths, wharves, operational areas, warehouses, buildings,
equipment, maritime access and navigation aids.
The Consultants will also pay a particular attention to land access to the ports areas, in
terms of road access, port gates, separation between port and city traffic, and between
passengers and cargo traffic.



Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 5
8.2    Operational Assessment of Existing Port Facilities
On the seaside, the Consultants will review prevailing nautical conditions, including
bathymetric conditions, currents, swells, winds, siltation if any, and define the optimal
parameters for safe operations under the existing circumstances, i.e. ship size, draught,
speed, mooring and berthing practices, etc.
On the landside, the Consultants will review prevailing working arrangements, operation of
cargo handling equipment, use of available operational areas, open storage areas,
warehouses, parking space, customs clearance practices, traffic management in the port and
through the port gates.
8.3   Environmental Assessment of Port Areas and Port Operations
The Consultants will carry out a survey of the existing environmental conditions in the
ports, including, as far as necessary, soils sampling in the port basins. They will identify
any potential environmental hazard linked to future port activities, and propose appropriate
mitigation measures accordingly.
8.4   Statistical Review and Assessment of Potential Market Demand
The Consultants will review past and present activities in the ports of Saranda and
Shengjini, as documented in port statistics kept by MPWT, and, as far as possible, in
Customs statistics. However, the rapidly changing economic background means that past
statistics may bear limited relevance only when it comes to assessing future potential
market demand. The Consultants will investigate this market potential in the following
areas:
Commercial Activities: although these are fairly limited today, the Consultants will
consider to what extent commercial traffic handling could be part of future port
activities, and in particular whether coastal shipping, as an alternative to land
transport, might play a significant role in future national transport pattern;
environrnental and safety considerations, in particular for transport of oil products
and fertilizers/chemicals, may also be important considerations for future modal
split.
.  Passengers Traffic:  the development of ferry connections with neighboring
countries appears to be among the most promising options for growth of secondary
ports' activities.
*  Fishing Activities: this is a traditional area, the future of which has to be assessed
in the new economic context.



Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 5
* Recreational Activities: the foreseen development of tourism in Albania, and in
particular along the seashore, should offer new opportunities for the ports of
Saranda and Shengjini. The Consultants will assess this potential in connection
with the other planned developments of the country's infrastructure, in particular
transport and hotel services.
8.5   Role of the Secondary Ports in National and Regional Development Planning
Building upon the results of the market assessment described above, the Consultants will
propose a scenario integrating the ports of Saranda and Shengjini within the national
transport network development planning, while taking into account their specific potential
as regional development poles for the Southern and Northern parts of the country.
8.6   Proposals of Development Options
Based on their findings, and after having reached an agreement with the Albanian
Authorities on the overall role of the secondary ports at the national and local levels, the
Consultants will propose appropriate development options for the short, medium and long
term, addressing in particular the following issues:
* Local Institutional Arrangements: different options, like management of the port
facilities directly by the Municipalities, or concessioned to the local/regional
Chamber of Commerce or equivalent, or concessioned to one or several private
operators, depending upon the mix and size of operations, will be reviewed.
* Integration within the Integrated Coastal Zone Management Strategy:  the
Consultants will make sure their proposals are consistent with the principles
implemented nationwide for coastal areas development and management, in
particular as far as environmental protection policy is concerned.
* Physical Development Projects:  the Consultants will identify development
projects consistent with the overall framework outlined above, defining their main
parameters and potential sponsors: investors, operators, local or foreign, at the
regional or national level.
D.   TIME SCHEDULE AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
9.          The Consultants will complete the work program in no longer than seven
working months, time for MPWT's review not included, according to the following
reporting schedule:
(a) within one month of the starting date, an Inception Report outlining the
Consultants' preliminary findings and describing the detailed work program
will be submitted to MPWT;



Annex 3.3
Page 5 of 5
(b) within four months of the starting date, a Draft Report including Tasks 8.1,
8.2, 8.3 and 8.4: will be submitted to MPWT;
(c)  within two months after having received approval or comments from
MPWT on the Draft Report, a Draft Final Report including revised Tasks
8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4 and Tasks 8.5 and 8.6, will be submitted to MPWT; and
(d) within one month after having received approval or comments from MPWT
on the Draft Final Report, the Final Report including revised Tasks 8.1, 8.2,
8.3, 8.4, 8.5 and 8.6, will be submitted to MPWT.
10.         The Final Report will include an Executive Summary summing up the main
findings and recommendations of the Consultants. Floppy disks and a reproducible copy
shall be provided for the purpose of reproducing the text of the study.
11.        It is expected that the total work input should be within 12 man-months and
will include the involvement of a Port Engineer, a Port Operations Specialist, a Transport
Economist and an Environmental Expert.



Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 4
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment of Durres Port
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    The Albanian economy is now being transformed from a central planning system to
a market economy. In this context, the Government is revising its port development policy
in order to adapt the sector to the new economic pattern. While the new institutional
framework is being designed with the general view to enhance the autonomous
administrative and financial management of the commercial port sector, there is a
complementary need for a comprehensive assessment of the present and future potential of
existing port facilities, together with a thorough assessment of the environmental
conditions prevailing in the port marine areas.
2.    The main objective of the modernization program is to rationalize the management
and operations of the port through a new definition of the respective roles of the public and
private sectors, a new legal and institutional framework, and the devolution of all
commercial operations to private operators via an appropriate mode of concessioning, the
port authority being transformed into a landlord authority. However, before entering this
process, one of the prerequisites is to establish a clear and comprehensive picture of the
environmental background against which the port is and will be operating.
B.    OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
3.    The purpose of the present study is to review the prevailing environmental situation
in the port of Durres, identify any existing or potential threat to the port and maritime
ecosystem coming from present or potential future activities, and propose any prevention
or mitigation measures required to prevent any detrimental evolution to materialize.
C.   SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
4.    The Consultants shall perform the collection and analysis of all operational,
physical and environmental data, as required to attain the objectives set forth in para. 3
above. The Consultants shall conduct these works in consultation with the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MPWT), and with the Port of Durres Authority (PDA). The
Consultants will be solely responsible for the analysis and interpretation of all data
received and for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in their reports.
5.   In performing the services described in the present Terms of Reference, the
Consultants will review the different areas susceptible to entail environmental hazards and
to require consequently appropriate remediation or prevention measures.  Typically,



Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 4
environmental p:rotection management in ports includes several specific components,
which can be grouped according to the following distribution: (i) impact of marine
structures; (ii) ship waste management; (iii) dredging activities; and (iv) accidental
pollution.
*  Impact of Marine Structures: these are of two kinds, short term or long term impacts.
Short term inmpacts are those linked to immediate interaction of structures components
with port waters, like effects of antifouling paints on steel piles, which can have
detrimental consequences on local marine fauna. Long term impact are those coming
from lasting disturbances to the coastline balance brought about by the construction of
new facilities, in particular breakwaters. By disrupting an existing sand littoral drift,
they may result in beach enrichment upstream of the port, and coastal erosion
downstream. Both can be dangerous: the former may result in siltation in the port
accesses, ancl therefore require dredging, the latter may see the coastline receding,
sometimes endangering human settlements and threatening seashore ecosystems.
Appropriate arrangements preferably must be worked out at the project design stage,
which will often require physical modeling, to decide upon the mitigation measures
needed to stabilize the coastline and counteract the impact of the new construction,
while protecting the most vulnerable coastal areas. Mitigate this phenomenon after it
began to take place usually will require designing physical arrangements including
groynes and other seashore stabilization methods to prevent the process from
expanding.
* Ship Waste Management: the MARPOL international convention makes it mandatory
for ports to mnake available collection and treatment facilities to handle ship generated
waste.  The International Maritime Organization (IMO) published in 1995 a
comprehensive Handbook on Port Collection and Treatment Facilities, which should be
proposed systematically as a basic reference to deal with this issue in any Bank-
financed project.  The Consultants will review the existing situation in Durres and
identify any appropriate steps to be taken, if need be.
*  Dredging Activities: capital and maintenance dredging may have several impacts on
the marine environments. In particular, disposal of dredged materials must be handled
with due consideration given to any possible contamination. The London Dumping
Convention spells out the maximum acceptable levels in connection with specific
disposal options.  The Consultants will review any existing documentation on the
quality of soils in the port basins and entrance channels in Durres, and carry out an
adequate sampling program in order to determined through laboratory analysis the
present conditions of soils in both ports. Following this determination, an assessment
of the suitability of existing dumping sites, and if required, the identification of new
ones, will have to be carried out. Main contaminants to be looked for include, without
being limitedL to:



Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 4
=> heavy metals: cadmium, mercury, copper, nickel, lead, zinc, chromium, arsenic
=> organochloropesticides: hexachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene,
hexachlorobutadiene, heptachlorepoxide, endosulphane, DDE, DDT, DDD, etc.
=> polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)
=> polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
* Accidental Pollution: Oil spills are the most common threat, and in accordance with
the MARPOL convention, ports handling oil products must be equipped with
appropriate equipment to fight and contain any accidental spill within the port area.
Countries signatories to the MARPOL convention--and to the OPRC treaty on oil
pollution preparedness, response, and co-operation--must also maintain adequate
response capacity to an oil spill emergency, and have a national oil emergency plan
spelling out the ways and means to tackle any accidental oil pollution. Regional
emergency plans are in fact highly advisable: beside ensuring regional consistency in
addressing pollution emergencies, they would also allow for shared equipment and
resources pool, all the more important that availability of concessional financing will
generally be limited on a country basis. The Consultants will review the present
situation in Durres, identify any potential shortcoming, and propose an action plan to
address them. In doing so, the Consultants will be advised to review the outcome of
the mission recently carried out by IMO-REMPEC, which will be made available to
them by MPWT.
6.    Specific attention must also be paid to arrangements made to safely handle
hazardous cargoes on the port areas. This can entail establishment of appropriately
protected confinement areas, and preparation of adequate regulation to ensure proper
handling and transit of such shipments. The Consultants will review the present situation in
Durres, identify any potential shortcoming, and propose an action plan to address them.
7.    The Services shall be carried out in two phases, as follows:
7.1   Phase 1: Diagnosis of the present situation and identification of any existing or
potential environmental threat, including soils sampling and analysis. The Phase 1 Report
shall provide a comprehensive description of the prevailing environmental conditions in
the two ports.
7.2   Phase 2: Elaboration of action, prevention and mitigation plans to be implemented.
Specific consideration will be given to the need to establish a regular follow-up process,
under which the PDA will have to timely monitor the evolution of the port's environmental
conditions. A clear methodology, including practical steps and adequate benchmarks
indicators, shall be included in the Phase 2 Report.



Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 4
D.   TIME SCHEDULE AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
9.    The Consultants shall commence field work within fifteen calendar days of the
notification of the contract. They shall submit the following reports within the time
periods and in quantities indicated:
Phase I Report:         10 copies in English     4 months after notification
Phase 2 Report:         10 copies in English     6 months after notification
Final Report:           20 copies in English     1 month after review and
approval/comments of the
Phase 2 Report by the
Administration
10.   The reports shall be presented in draft form and contain a concise summary of all
major findings and recommendations of the Consultants. The draft reports shall be
carefully edited and complete, so that production of the Final Report can proceed without
delay. The Final Report will bind together the Phase 1 and Phase 2 Reports and incorporate
any comments made by the Albanian Authorities after review of the two preliminary
documents. Floppy disks shall be provided for the purpose of reproducing the text of the
study.
11.  It is expected that the total work input should be within 10 man-months and should
include the involvement of an Environmental Expert and a Port Operations Specialist, plus
a field survey and laboratory team.



Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 4
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
ACTION                                RESPONSIBLE            DATE
. Project Inception Phase
(i)  Retention of Transport Project Management Unit (PMU)    MPWT               May 1998
and PMU Secretariat
(ii)  Definition of Civil Works contracts                 PMU, PDA             June 1, 1998
(iii) Finalization of prequalification documents for Civil Works  PMU           June 1, 1998
contracts under responsibility of PMU Secretariat, after
approval by PMU and IDA
(iv) Shortlisting and call for proposals for International  PMU, PDA            June 1, 1998
Supervision Consultants team (ISC)
(v)  Selection of Project Coordinator                     MPWT, PDA             June 1, 1998
(vi) Prequalification of contractors for Civil Works contracts    PMU, PDA      September 1, 1998
(vii) Estimated credit effectiveness date                 MoF, MPWT             October 1, 1998
(viii) Selection of ISC                                   PMU, PDA              October 1, 1998
(ix) Establishment of Special Account                     PMU, MoF, MPWT    October 1998
(x)  Effectiveness of OPEC Fund cofinancing               MoF, MPWT             ?
(xi) Quarterly progress reports to GOA, IDA and OPEC Fund   PMU                Firt progress report
for period ending
December 31, 1998
II. Supervision Consultants for Civil Works
(i)  Shortlisting & call for proposals for ISC (inception phase)   PMU, PDA    June 1, 1998
(ii)  Hiring of ISC (inception phase)                     PMU, PDA              October 1, 1998
(iii) Advice on bidding                                   PMU, PDA              October 1998-
January 1998
(iv) Supervision of Civil Works contracts                 PMU, PDA             June 2001
III. Civil Works
(i)  Definition of Civil Works contracts (inception phase)  PMU, PDA            June 1, 1998
(ii)  Removal of bitumen, iron ore and rehabilitation of the  MPWT, PDA         September 1, 1998



Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 4
HMO office                                         PMU, PDA             September 1, 1998
(iii) Prequalification of contractors (inception phase)  PMU, PDA, ISC      October 1998-
June 2001
(iv) Appointment of l'DA staff as collaborators and
counterparts with the ISC for supervision of Civil Works    PMU         November 1, 1998
(v)  Finalization of bidding documents for Civil Works
contracts under responsibility of PMU Secretariat, after
approval by PMlJ and IDA                           PMU, PDA             March 15, 1999
(vi) Selection of contractors for Civil Works contracts and
signature of contracts                             PDA, ISC             March 1999-
(vii) Supervision of Civil Works contracts including timely                        June 2001
mobilization and start quality control, control of cost,
measurements and scheduled progress under ISC and local
counterpart staff
IV. Equipment: Lighting. Cranes. Customs Modernization
(i)  Bidding                                            PMU, PDA            November 1998
(ii) Evaluation award, contract signature               PMU, PDA             March 1999
(iii) Delivery and installation                         PMU, PDA             March 1999 to -
PMU, PDA          ~~March 2000
V. Equipment: Navigation Aids. Anti-pollution Actions.
Miscellaneous Eqlipment
(i)  Solicitation of price quotations                   PMU, PDA            November 1998
(anti-pollution
actions: Sept 98)
(ii) Evaluation award, contract signature               PMU, PDA            March 1999
(iii) Delivery and installation                         PMU, PDA             March 1999 to
PMU, PDA          ~~March 2000
VI. Studies, Technical Assistance and Training
(i)  Secondary Ports Development Study                  PMU, MITT           June 1998 -
June 1999
(ii) Analysis of dredged materials and Oil pollution emergency  PMU, PDA, MITT  June 1998 -
plan studies                                                                  June 1999
(iii) TA experts and training to PDA staff              PMU PDA             June 1998 -
December 2002
Abbreviations
HMO:  Harbor Master's Office
MPWT: Ministry oi Public Works and Transport



Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 4
MoF:   Ministry of Finance
PMU:  Project Management Unit
PDA:   Port of Durres Authority
ISC:   International Supervision Consultants
Project Implementation Principles
I.    Rehabilitation and Modernization Components. They will be managed and
implemented by the PDA, relying on its technical staff, supported as needed by technical
assistance under a works supervision contract.
2.    Overall Project Coordination. The Executive Secretary of the PMU is the Project
Coordinator. The Projects Implementation Unit will provide the Port of Durres Authority
with any assistance it may require in carrying out Project implementation tasks. The
technical assistance and training program will be managed and implemented by the Project
Coordinator.
Project Procurement Plan
3.    A detailed Procurement Plan for the different project components is presented in
Annex 3.6.
Project Supervision
4.    Permanent project supervision responsibilities will be vested with the Project
Coordinator. Quarterly progress reports will be submitted to the Bank, including in
particular:
(a)   status of procurement operations for each component;
(b)   updated Project procurement plan;
(c)   updated Project implementation timetable;
(d)   status of credit commitments and disbursements;
(e)   updated disbursement schedule;
(f)   utilization of the Special Accounts;
(g)   development indicators, including in particular:
* monthly port traffic statistics, including container and ro-ro/ferry traffic,
* average dwelling time in port of time-sensitive cargoes,
* cargo handling productivity ratios for general cargo and bulk
commodities.
5.    The Project Accounts and the audited accounts of the Port of Durres Authority will
be submitted yearly to the Bank.



Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 4
6.     Bank supervision missions will take place at least twice a year, or according to
project requirements, and will include a Transport Economist, a Port Specialist, and at least
once a year a Financial Analyst. They will follow the proposed supervision plan below:
No of    No of Field
Timing      Staff Weeks             Staffing             Trips      Weeks
FY1998          14         Task Manager: 8 sw              5           6
Port specialist: 4 sw
Financial Analyst: 2 sw
FY1999          16         Task Manager: 8 sw              6           8
Port Specialist: 4 sw
Environmental Specialist: 2
SW
Financial Analyst: I sw
Procurement Spec.: I sw
FY2000          16         Task Manager: 8 sw              6           8
Port Specialist :4 sw
Environmental Specialist: 2
SW
Financial Analyst: I sw
Procurement Spec.: I sw
FY2001          15         Task Manager: 8 sw              5           6
Port Specialist: 4 sw
Financial Analyst: I sw
FY2001           15        Task Manager: 8 sw              5           6
Port Specialist: 4 sw
Financial Analyst: I sw
FY2002          15         Task Manager: 8 sw              5           8
ICR                      Port Specialist : 4 sw
Financial Analyst: I sw
Total          91                                        32          42



Annex 3.6
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
Component         Total    Number of  Procurement  Issuance of   Submission   Signing of    Completion
Cost US$   Contracts     Method      Invitation to    of Bids   Contract
million                                Bid
Civil Works            L1. 6
Berth strengthening     9.6         2           ICB          10/98        12/98        03/99        06/2003
and resurfacing
Warehouses/
Offices
2.0         4           ICB          10/98        12/98        03/99        06/2000
Equipment and
Materials               8.9
Navigation aids         0.2         1            IS          11/98        01/99        03/99        03/2000
Spare parts             1.4         7            IS          11/98        01/99        03/99        12/1999
Anti-pollution actions
- Goods
- Minor Works       0.35         3            IS          10/98        12/98        03/99        12/1999
0.15         2            S           10/98        12/98       03/99         12/1999
Customs
modernization           0.3         2            IS          11/98        01/99        03/99        12/1999
Miscellaneous
equipment               0.5         3            IS          11/98        01/99        03/99        12/1999
Lightning
0.6         1           ICB          11/98        01/99        03/99        09/2000
Cranes
5.4         2           ICB          11/98        01/99        03/99        12/2000
Studies                 1 0         4
Secondary Ports        0.02         1        Ind. Cons.      06/98        08/98        10/98        01/1999
Dredged Materials      0.24         1          QCBS          10/98        12/98        03/99        06/2000
Pollution Plan         0.24         1          QCBS          10/98        12/98        03/99        06/2000
Traffic Management     0.50         1          QCBS          10/98        12/98        02/99        06/2000
Study
Technical Assistance    1.1         3
Privatization           0.2         1        Sole Source     04/98        04/98        05/98        06/1999
Supervision             0.4         1          QCBS          06/98        08/98        10/98        06/2003
Project Coordinator     0.5         1          QCBS          06/98        08/98        09/98        12/2001
Training                0.4         1          QCBS          08/98        10/98        12/98        06/2003
TOTAL             23.0               1             1 ____    __ _



Annex 3.7
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Millions)
IDA Fiscal    1998       1999      2000       2001        2002       2003
Year
Annual       2.0        5.5       4.5        3.0         1.0         1.0
Cumulative     2.0        7.5      12.0       15.0        16.0        17.0
Percentage      12        44        71          88         94         100



Annex 3.8
Page I of 3
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Technical Cooperation in Privatizing Port Operations
Terms of Reference
A.  BACKGROUND
The rehabilitation of the port of Durres, Albania's principal port, is currently
being financed by loans from IDA and OPEC Development Fund, for port infrastructure
and equipment, and by the European Bank for the ferry and Roro terminal. The port
currently handles approximately one million tons of dry cargo, which is about 90% of the
country's seaborne trade.
The process of rehabilitation includes not only the port's physical assets but also a
reform of its administration. The present port administration is responsible for cargo
discharge and loading from/to ships in port, storage of such cargo and it's receipt or
delivery. It does so by means of its personnel - currently numbering 1518 people- and the
equipment and physical facilities available. It is also responsible for the maintenance in
good working order of such equipment and facilities.
The Albanian Government (GOA) has decided to transform the port management
into a commercial "Joint Stock Company" (PDA), while retaining control of all the
shares. The port's management, instead of being answerable directly to the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MPWT), will henceforth answer to its own Supervisory
Council, whose members, representing GOA, private sector interests and labor, are to be
nominated by the Ministry of Economy and Privatization (MPEP) and MPWT. The
functions and responsibilities of PDA will be mainly those of a landlord and operations
supervisor, whereas port operations are to be privatized.
The privatization plan agreed between GOA and IDA has already been set in
motion through the reorganization of the present port staff into three distinct profit
centers, two for operations and one for civil and mechanical maintenance. These are
embryonic future companies, which will continue operating under PDA's over-all
management until the end of the year, when they are expected to be separated as private
cargo-handling and maintenance enterprises. This transformation implies a considerable
reduction in staff employed within the port. It also means a new set of relations between
PDA, its client operators, port users and GOA and other parties involved in port
operations.
GOA has therefore decided to engage a consultant, expert in the process of
privatization, to help achieve the reforms described. Such consultant will be expected



Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 3
actively to participate in the process of commercialization and privatization of port
activities and not merely to advise on how to carry out such a process.
During the preparation of the project by IDA, a privatization expert was engaged by GOA
to assist in drawiLng up a plan for privatizing port operations, converting PDA
progressively into a landlord port authority and devising an equitable scheme for
rendering redundant that part of the staff which is currently underemployed. The new
assignment will require the consultant to follow up on the work already done and help
with the plan's realization.
B.   OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSIGNMENT
1.    The setting up private cargo-handling companies and other private enterprises for
port and port-related operations. Assisting PDA with the formulation and signing of
appropriate contractual agreements with such enterprises. Help PDA set up an acceptable
administration for managing the port.
C.   DESCRIPTION AND SCOPE OF TASKS
2.    The consultant will:
a) critically review existing plans for the privatization of port operations;
b) help draw up organizational frameworks for the proposed operating
companies and monitor their progress while still affiliated to PDA:
c) assist and advise in the preparation of contracts between PDA and the newly
formed operating companies, including the Maritime Services Co., and advise
with regard to suitable charges for concessions and leases;
d) help PDA with its reorganization, and with the preparation of administrative
and operating procedures;
e) draw up draft regulations for port users, to be approved and published by PDA;
f) advise, if so requested, the operating companies-in-the-making on appropriate
equipment for their operations;
g) help with identifying, if so requested, potential strategic partners and investors
in the various operating companies; and
h) design suitable mechanisms for the control by GOA of monopoly abuses.



Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 3
D.   DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
3.    The assignment is expected to require 6-9 man months (to be detailed in the
offer), of which a half at least will have to be spent in Albania. The assignment should
conclude 12 months after the work begins.
E.    REPORTING AND INTERACTION WITH ALBANIAN AUTHORITIES
4.    After the first month, the consultant will prepare an short Initiation Report, in
which he will indicate what amendments, if any, he proposes to these Terms of
Reference, and how he proposes to carry out the designated tasks. This report will be
discussed with PDA and GOA representatives, and agreement will be reached on how to
proceed. During the course of the assignment he will prepare short monthly progress
reports for discussion with the Albanian authorities.
5.    At all stages the work should be closely coordinated with PDA, the managements
of the putative private companies and with representatives of MPWT.
F.    QUALIFICATIONS
6.    The consultant should have extensive experience in the process of privatizing port
operations and a demonstrable record of successful accomplishments in the
administrative reforms in ports. He should also be able to communicate his views both
orally and in written form in the English language (a working knowledge of Italian would
be an advantage). He should be able to work harmoniously with local counterpart staff.



Annex 3.9
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
Actual Proj.
1996   1997   1998   1999   2003
1.  Ship Congestion Factor (Ship Waiting 
Days waiting for berth/Time at berth x 100       20      18     15     12      5
2. Berth Occupation Rate:
Time berth occupied/Time berth available x 100   90      80     75     70      60
3. Berth Utilization Rate:
Time ship worked at berth/Time ship at berth x 100  40  45      55     65     75
4. Berth Throughput Indicator:
Annual general cargo tonnage handled per linear  300    300    400    500    700
meter of berth
5. Manpower Management:
Total number of PDA staff at year end at each stage    1,579   1,520  1,477   296    296
of the privatization process (Reference Annex 2.1 of
the Staff Appraisal Report)
Note: The financial performance of PDA should also be monitored in accordance with
para. 4.12 of the Staff Appraisal Report. Indicators and targets subject to refinement
following receipt of 1997 data. These indicators will be included in the quarterly progress
reports to be prepared by the PMU.



ALBANIA                                  Annex 4.1
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Durres Port Financial Projections, 1997-2003
Revenue and Expense Accounts
(leks 000)
1996     1997   1998    1999    2000        2001     2002    2003
Revenues           (actual)    *
Stevedoring fee          -       -        -    22,000   23,700   25,500   29,600   35,900
Technical fee            -        -       -     17,800   15,600   16,300   17,900   20,500
Stevedoring          385,100  386,679  398,279      -        -        -        -       -
Workshop             120,600   92,260   95,000
Construction          15,000    8,757    9,000      -        -        -        -       -
Others                 6,100     723    5,000    5,150    5,305    5,464    5,628    5,796
Parking                7,300    4,423    6,000    6,180    6,365    6,556    6,753    6,956
Entrance fee           3,600    4,000    4,000    4,120    4,244    4,371    4,502    4,637
Lease/storage         14,000   23,248   18,000   18,360   18,727   19,102   19,484   19,873
Interest               5,000        -       -        -        -        -       -        -
Ferry*** and mooring    137,300  174,529  183,256  192,419  202,040  212,141  222,749  233,886
Total                694,000  694,619  718,535  266,029  275,980  289,434  306,615  327,549
Expenses
Wages and Salaries   298,100  309,892  310,000   72,292   74,461   76,695   78,996   81,366
Materials             60,900   42,267   60,900   30,450   30,450   30,450   30,450   30,450
Maintenance           60,300   55,685   60,300   30,150   30,150   30,150   30,150   30,150
Utilities             17,500   28,321   29,000   29,000   29,000   29,000   29,000   29,000
Insurance              4,000                     4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000
Exchange rate losses    (10,700)
Other expenses        44,700   56,945   60,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,001
Subtotal             474,800  493,111  520,200  175,892  178,061  180,295  182,596  184,967
Depreciation**        28,300   39,912   40,000   28,303   28,304   29,433   29,954   30,107
Total                503,100  533,023  560,200  204,195  206,365  209,728  212,550  215,074
Profit               190,900  161,596  158,335   61,833   69,615   79,706   94,065  112,475
Working Ratio           0.68    0.71     0.72     0.66    0.65     0.62     0.60     0.56
Operating ratio         0.72     0.77    0.78     0.77     0.75    0.72     0.69     0.66
Notes:
* projected from 9 months;
** in 1999, assets are revalued prior to privatization and redistribution
*** only Net ferry revenues are here included as ferry terminal investment were excluded.
'Source: Consultant and Mission estimates- January 1998



ALBANIA                                    Annex 4.2
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Durres Port Financial Projections, 1997-2003
Fund Flow (US$000)
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003
(actual)     *
SOURCES
Surplus in thousand US$    1,909   1,114.5  1,092.0    426.4    480.1    549.7    648.7    775.7
add: depreciation**       283      283      275      276      195      195      203       207
Own Fund Surplus        2,192    1,397    1,367      702      675      745       852      982
Subtotal                2,192    1,397    1,367      702      675      745      852       982
Credits                                   3,000    5,000    5,000    6,100    1,900
Total Sources           2,192    1,397    4,367    5,702    5,675    6,845    2,752      982
USES
Investments               870    1,000    3,000    5,000    5,000    6,100    1,900    1,000
Interest payments                                     38       75      121      135       135
30% profittax            573      334      328       128      144      165      195      233
Increase (decrease)in W   749       63    1,040      537      456      459      522      (385)
Total uses              2,192    1,397    4,367    5,702    5,675    6,845    2,752      982
Notes:
* projected from 9 months;
* in 1999, assets are revalued prior to privatization and redistribution
'Source: Consultant and Mission estimates- January 1998



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Average Growth Traffic Forecast, 1997-2011
Handling Mode                                             forecast
1996                          future (> 2000)                      1997      1998      1999     2000      2005      2011
Exports through the port
Chrome ore                          bulk                           bulk                               110,000   140,000   170,000   170,000   170,000   170,000
Chrome concentrate                  bulk                           bulk                               40,000    55,000    70,000    80,000   102,103    136,827
Ferro-Chrome                        bulk                           bulk                               50,000    55,000    65,000    70,000   112,736   199,718
Cast iron                           bulk                           bulk                                 8,000    8,000     9,000    10,000    12,763    17,103
Coal                                bulk                           bulk                                22,000    25,000    30,000   40,000    51,051    68,414
Superphosphate                      bulk                           bulk                                    0         0     8,000    9,000    12,763    17,103
Sulfur                              bulk                           bulk                                 8,000    8,500     9,000    10,000    12,763    17,103
Various cargo as general cargo      general cargo                  general cargo                        4,000     3,500    3,000    2,500      2,500    2,500
Various cargo in containers         container                      container                            4,000    5,000     6,000     7,000    11,274    19,972
Wine in transit from Macedonia      liquid bulk                   liquid bulk                          10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
Transit cargo                       75% break bulk/25% in containers   10% break bulk/90% containers     500       500       700     1,000     3,713    17,922
Subtotal                                                                                              256,500   310,500   380,700   409,500   501,664   676,662
Exports through ferry terminal
Subtotal                           truck/trailer on ferry boat     truck/trailer on ferry boat         47,700    50,562    53,596   141,900   199,650   268,950
Total exports                                                                                         560,700   671,562   814,996   960,900 1,202,979  1,622,275
Imports through the port
Wheat, barley, maize                bulk                           bulk                               110,000   120,000   130,000   150,000   170,000   170,000
Rice                                break bulk (bags)              80% break bulk/20% container        18,979    20,118    21,325    22,605    28,850    38,662
Flour                               break bulk (bags)              80% break bulk/20% container       107,292   113,730   120,553   127,787   163,092   218,558
Sugar                               break bulk (bags)              80% break bulk/20% container       81,524    86,415    91,600    97,096   123,922   166,067
Cement                              50% bulk/50% break bulk        75% bulk/25% break bulk            158,602   174,462   191,908   211,099   269,421    361,050
Urea, nitrate, phosphate, sulfur    75% bulk/25% break bulk        75% bulk/25% break bulk            80,000    84,800    89,888   95,281   110,457   131,892
Coal/cokes                          bulk                           bulk                                30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Silicium sand                       bulk                           bulk                                                    5,000    10,000    20,000    20,000
Building materials (bricks, tiles, steel)  50% break bulk/50% general cargo   50% gen./ 25% cont./25% break bulk  33,203    36,523    40,175    44,193    56,403    75,585
Liquid (naphta, petrol, oils)      liquid bulk                    liquid bulk                         48,363    51,264    54,340    57,601    73,515    98,517
Foodstuffs                          75% break bulk/25% in containers   100% in containers             40,000    42,400    44,944   47,641    60,803    81,482
Transit cargo                       75% break bulk/25% in containers   10% break bulk/90% containers    3,000    3,150     3,308     3,473    12,895    62,239
Subtotal                                                                                              710,962   762,862   823,042   896,774 1,119,357  1,454,052
Imports through the ferry terminal
Subtotal                           truck/trailer on ferry boat     truck/trailer on ferry boat        141,512   150,003   159,003   268,000   385,250   525,950
Total imports                                                                                         852,474   912,865   982,045 1,164,774 1,504,607  1,980,002
Grand total imporUexport through port                                                                 967,462  1,073,362  1,203,742 1,306,274 1,621,021  2,130,714
Grand total imporUexport ferry terminal                                                               189,212   200,565   212,599   409,900   584,900   794,900
Grand total                                                                                         1,156,674  1,273,927  1,416,341 1,716,174 2,205,921  2,925,614
Source: Consultants GEM and appraisal mission                                                                                                                   X



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Project as Proposed
(US$ 000)
1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010 201 i-2017
Economic fund flow from FDA #                44  1,040   631    617    669    749    845    947  1,062  1,191  1,336  1,498  1,137  1,214          1,303
Economic fund flow from stevedores            0      0    509    845    867    941    991   1083   1173   1268   1363   1468   1570   1689         1830
Economic fund flow from technical co.         0      0    652    961    996   1026   1022   1073   1122   1177   1233   1297   1358   1433         1526
-Economic fund flows without project#        44  1,040  1,271  1,534  1,616  1,767  1,554  1,631  1,765  1,912  2,057  2,221   1,922  2,004       2,073
- Project costs                                   3,000  5,000  5,000  6,100  1,900
- Ferry terminal investments EB-financed          2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500  1,600
After-tax incremental operational fund flow   0 -5,500 -6,979 -6,612 -7,685 -2,551  1,303  1,472  1,592  1,724  1,874  2,042  2,143  2,332        2,586
Tax paid byPDA                              326    328    128    144    165    195    233    258    312    334    358    379    405    424          451
Tax paid by the stevedoring Co's              0      0    218    362    371    403    425    464    503    543    584    629    673    724          784
TaxpaidbythetechnicalCo.*                     0      0    258    390    405    418    416    438    460    483    507    534    561    593          633
- Tax paid by PDA without project           326    328    402    453    474    512    448    460    489    517    536    562    598    627          651
Incremental tax                               0      0    202    443    468    504    626    700    785    844    912    981  1,040  1,113        1,217
Ship dues ##                              1,900  1,957  2,016  2,576  3,653  3,763  3,876  3,992  4,112  4,235  4,362  4,493  4,628  4,767        4,910
Ship dues at const. tariff, without project  1,900  1,957  2,016  2,076  2,138  2,202  2,269  2,337  2,407  2,479  2,553  2,630  2,709  2,790     2,874
Incremental ship dues                         0      0      0    500  1,515  1,560  1,607  1,655  1,705  1,756  1,809  1,863  1,919  1,977        2,036
Increase in Customs collection **             0      0      0       0      0  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000       1,000
60% value savings in ship time in port        0    274    377    429    495    575    686    719    756    792    831    874    921    974         1,033
Savings from reduction of pilferage           0      0      0       0      0     48    108    177    258    353    466    602    766    966        1,212
TOTAL INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC FLOW               0  -5226  -6400  -5239  -5207   1136   5330   5723   6097   6470   6893   7362   7789   8361         9084
Internal economic rate of return                         18.9%
Economic Net Present Value at 10% discount rate         17,659
Notes:
# Labor cost shadow priced at 60% of market cost;
## To finance renovated ferry terminal, ship dues raised by 25% in 2000 and another 37% in 2001;
* The Technical company will be maintaining equipment and infrastructure for the private stevedores and PDA respectively
** This represents a 2% increase in Customs collection resulting from collecting previously evaded duty.
** PDA's 1997 Net Cash Flow is after a US$ I million contingency for severance pay and other investments.
-n
CD1



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Project Without Institutional Improvements
(US$ 000)
2011 to
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010 2017
Economic fund-flow from PDA                      44   1,553   1,661   2,142   2,227   2,372   2,483   2,670   2,832   3,002   3,167   3,360   3,525   3,742   4,001
-Economic fund-flow from PDA without project     44   1,553   1,661    1,961    2,040   2,188    1,972   2,038   2,119   2,200   2,256   2,330   2,435   2,517   2,586
- Project costs                                       3,000   5,000   5,000   6,100    1,900
-Ferry terminal investments, EB financed              2,500   2,500   2,500   2,500    1,600
After-tax total financial incremental                 -5,500  -7,500  -7,319  -8,413  -3,316      511      632     713     802      911    1,030   1,090   1,225   1,415
Tax paid by PDA                                 334     584     621      667     714      760     796      856     908     962    1,015   1,077   1,130    1,199   1,282
- Tax paidby PDA without project                327     389     416      491     511      548     494      510     530     551      565     583      610     630      647
Incremental tax                                   0     196     205      176     203      213     302     346      377     412      450     494      520     569      635
Ship dues                                     1,900   1,957   2,016   2,576   3,653   3,763   3,876   3,992   4,112   4,235   4,362   4,493   4,628   4,767   4,910
- Ship dues without project                   1,900   1,957   2,016   2,076   2,138   2,202   2,269   2,337   2,407   2,479   2,553   2,630   2,709   2,790   2,874
Incremental ship dues                             0       0       0      500   1,515   1,561   1,607   1,655   1,705   1,756   1,809   1,863   1,919   1,977   2,036
Increase in Customs collection                    0       0       0        0       0   1,000   1          .000   1.000   1 000   I,990   1.000   1.000   1.000   1.000   1.000
60% value savings in ship waiting time            0       0       0      426     448      473     500     527      556     588      624     665      711     764      826
Savings from reduction of pilferage               0       0       0        0       0       48     108      177     258     353      466     602      766     966   1,212
Total economic benefits (non-cash)                0       0       0      426     448      521     608     704      814     941    1,090   1,267   1,477   1,730   2,038
TOTALINCREMENTALECONOMICFLOW   N.R                   -5,304  -7,295  -6,218  -6,246      -22   4,028   4,337   4,610   4,911   5,261   5,653   6,006   6,501    7,124
Economic rate of return                                        13%
Net Present Value at 10% discount rate                         6783
Notes:
(See Annex 5.2)
tn



ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Economic evaluation
Project as Proposed, Worst Traffic Scenario
(Uss 000)
2011 to
199W     1998     1999    2000    2001      2002    2003    2004    2005        2006    2007    2008    2009    2010 2017
Economic fund-flow from PDA ##                     44       980      553      468      492      529      554     584      655      740      845      951       535      542      560
Economic fund-flow from the stevedoring Co's        0         0      280      699      650      660     642      656      670      683      691      702       703      709      718
Economic fund-flow from the technical Co.           0         0      612     952       880      858     796      786      780      776      767      763       750      745      742
-Economic fund-flow without project ##              44      980      767      847      898      939      725     764       849     947    1,043    1,161       800      835      864
- Project costs                                           3,000    5,000    5.000    6,100    1,900
-Ferry terminal investments EB financed                   2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    1,600
After-tax economic inerensental FF                  0   -5,500   -6,823   -6,228   -7,476   -2,391    1,267    1,262    1,257    1,252    1,261    1,255    1,188    1,161    1,156
TaxpaidbyPDA                                      326       302      171      145      153      164      172     181      203      229      262      295       166      168      174
Tax paid by the stevedoring Co's                    0         0      120      300      278     283      275      281      287      293      296       301     301       304      308
Tax paid by the technical Co.                       0         0      241      386     356       346     320      315      313      311      307      306      300       298      297
- Tax paid by PDA without project                 326       302      238     263      278      291      225      237      263      294      323       360     248       259      268
Incremental tax                                     0         0     294      569      508      502      542      541      540      540      542      541      519       511      510
Ship dues                                        1,900    1,957    2,016    2,576    3,653    3,763    3,876    3,992    4,112    4,235    4,362    4,493    4,628    4,767    4,910
- Ship dues without project                      1,900    1,957    2,016    2,076    2,138    2,202    2,269    2,337    2,407    2,479    2,553    2,630    2,709    2,790    2,874
Incremental ship dues                               0         0        0       0    1,515    1,561    1,607    1,655    1,705    1,756    1,809    1,863    1,919    1,977    2,036
Increase in Customs collection                      0         0        0       0         0     500      500      500      500      500      500      500      500       500      500
60% value savings in ship time in port              0       193      234     303       307      362     421      426      430      437      443      449       456      462      469
Savings from reduction ofpilferage                  0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0        0        0        0        0        0
Total economic benefits (non-cash)                  0       193      234      303      307      362     421      426      430      437      443       449      456      462      469
TOTAL INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC FLOW               NR         -5,307   -6,295   -5,357   -5,146     534    4,337    4,383    4,432    4,484    4,555    4,608    4,581    4,611    4,671
Economic rate of return                                             13%
Economic Net Prtsent Value at 10% discount rate                    4187
(0) $1,000,000 exceptional investment (financing of                  >
severance payments) out of PDAs budget.                      I
Notes:( See Annex 5.2)                                                                                                                                                                                       X
t-n



Annex 5.5
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
DURRES PORT PROJECT
Notes on the Economic and Financial Evaluation
1.    The following assumptions were made in addition to those mentioned in the main text.
A.    PRIVATIZATION OF OPERATIONS
2.    The financial forecast assumes that as of the beginning of 1999, all port operations are
privatized and PDA becomes a "landlord authority", owning and leasing infrastructure, buildings
and heavy equipment. The schedule of privatization and manpower reduction used in this
evaluation is as agreed during the appraisal mission and summarized in Annex 2.3.
Organizational details and distribution of costs between PDA and the future private operators has
been done in accordance with privatization plans and cost analysis data provided by PDA's
Financial Department (included in the project files).
B.    REVENUES
3.    PDA's revenues after 1999 consist mainly of royalties i.e. stevedoring and technical
companies' fees, as well as of leasing revenue. The rate of the operating fee paid by the operators
to PDA is based on an estimate provided by PDA's Financial Department and on the appraisal
mission financial forecasts. The economic evaluation is based on the same assumptions and
includes all revenues and taxes generated by the new operating companies, in addition to those of
the PDA (in Annexes 5.2 and 5.4). Also included are enhanced Customs revenues (2% of 1997
Customs revenues in the most likely scenario [Annex 5.2], and 1% in the worst case scenario
[Annex 5.4] ). This increase in Customs collection will result from the project's funding of
Customs hardware and systems, which will make the evasion of duties more difficult.
C.    SALARIES
4.     PDA salaries have been assumed to remain constant in real terms in the financial
forecasts. In the medium or long term, salaries may increase, but this will be compensated by
further decreases in manpower. In the economic evaluation, salaries have been shadow-priced at
60% of their actual 1997 cost for the first ten years of the project (para. 5.05).
D.    DEPRECIATION
5.    Depreciation calculations are based of the revalued assets in operation at normally
accepted rates ( 4-5% for infrastructure -excluding the breakwaters- and buildings,
and 7-12% for various equipment items). Residual book values were assumed for investments
such as berths and breakwater reconstruction.



Annex 5.5
Page 2 of 2
E.   EXCHANGE RATE
6.     The exchange rate used in the forecasts is an estimated average for 1997, at the time of
appraisal 145 Leks for I US$. The effect of further devaluation of the Lek will only improve
PDA's financial performance:
*  All revenues directly related to vessel operations, such as Port dues and berthing
dues, are received in US dollars.
*  Operating costs and revenues are in Leks.



MAP SECTION



BRLI 28506
_ _ _ _ _   _   _     _                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALBANIA
-~~~ ~DURRES PORT PROJECT
-~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~  N                                                         .   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
,7$~~~~~   /                                                                        /7                                                      -  - ~~~~~~TRAIFLRADS
'  /         P RO                                       '          - RO-
FERRI                                                                                                                                                     W Y /7 AAREPLODSE REF FRI nHW
,~~~~~~~Ii            1/                              /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                 L~~~~~~~~AVIGATION LDS
'I  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /1                                                                 PER~~~~~~~~~~~~~BT1 IRE(0]STR,)IF.1K
iji  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I, -  I    ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~1II1 OR STEELGT-E,EiD F(
CROATIA .                            )               ERR A  l, lTLLTE,FR
J//                                                                                                 ~~L'    U LP                                                                                    D )
Af  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                            /  .1                                                                                                              >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,DCLL E  0
1                              I                                                                                                             F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO1CIA
\F,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     ATC)NEL FDI"S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ip~<  L               A
lx  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~D
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
'I                               A                                                                                                                 -       *+L         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ALO D
5-,dd ~ ~ ~ ~ LLAF',L
'~~~~~~~  (I                                                                                                                  DALLES  y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~TAL,  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~(RF
~~~~i  4                                                                                                                                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ALBANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NS  N
B~~~IND4R ES\PL. 



