Report No. PIC3017
Project Name                             Albania-Durres Port Project (@+)
Region                                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                                   Transportation
Project ID                               ALPA0818
Borrower                                 Government of Albania (GOA)
Contact                                  Albanian Contact
Mr. Zamir Ramadani
General Director
Port of Durres Authority:
Durres, Albania
Phone: 355-52-23427
Fax: 355-52-23115
Date This PID Prepared                   April 25, 1997
Appraisal Date                           December 1996
Projected Board Date                     October 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Albania's macroeconomic performance deteriorated in 1996,
with the deficit likely to reach 11.5% of GDP and inflation 16%,
reversing the trend toward fiscal consolidation which was
successfully initiated in 1993. A Fund mission is presently in the
field, seeking to define and agree a Policy Framework Paper (PFP).
Despite rehabilitation works carried out during the last three
years, much of Albania's infrastructure remains in poor condition.
The road network is in significantly worse condition than elsewhere
in post-Communist Europe. The country's main airport and port both
require rehabilitation. About 400 municipalities cannot be reached
by telephone. Electricity outages in winter are common. The water
supply is unreliable, affecting production and public health. The
March 8, 1994 CAS identified infrastructure bottlenecks as a
significant constraint to implementing the stabilization program
and promoting economic development. This conclusion remains valid
today. Project processing was suspended following recent political
disturbances, and the timing of negotiations and approval of the
project is subject to their resolution.
2.      Albania's main port of Durres, with 9-10 berths, accounts for
90 percent of maritime traffic and can accommodate vessels up to
25,000 dwt. Traffic declined from a peak of 2.8 million tons in the
late 1980s to 840,000 tons in 1992 due to economic restructuring.
Traffic is growing again, to an estimated 1.1 million tons in 1996,
and reorienting in part to ferry and container traffic. PDA needs
to adapt to these changing traffic patterns. The port made a net
profit of about US$1.5 million in 1995. The Harbor Master's Office
(HMO, operating separately under the Ministry of Defense ) also
collected ship dues of US$1.8 million, most of which goes to the
Treasury.



3.      Initial assistance to the port was provided under the
Transport Project (Cr. 2499-Alb, US$18 million). A US$8.7 million
port component was cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund. Project
implementation is generally satisfactory, with the IDA credit 64
percent disbursed. Port operations have improved and port tariffs
has been adjusted to take competing Adriatic ports into account.
The Port Master Plan Study and Technical Study, both financed under
the project, identify the main investment requirements for the
port. Durres has sufficient berths for the foreseeable future, but
Berths 1 and 6 in particular have suffered serious corrosion damage
as a result of faulty construction and deferred maintenance, and
there is a need to rehabilitate additional operational areas,
repair the main breakwater, and to replace and modernize navigation
aids. Final engineering for a ferry terminal is under way in
preparation for construction under an EIB/PHARE financed project.
4.      The government approved a decree establishing an autonomous
port authority, which is a necessary condition for commercializing
operations and contracting with the private sector, but regulations
need to be approved implementing the Decree. The Harbor Master's
Office (HMO) also needs to be transferred from military control to
MITT to commercialize operations (ship dues would continue to go to
the Treasury). Customs procedures also impede the efficient
discharge of cargo at present. The Minister of Finance has the
authority to make all or part of the Port a fiscal zone, but
expressed concerns about improving security (improvements would be
financed under the project) and obtaining additional staff. PHARE
is also financing a project to improve customs procedures
nationwide, including introducing the ASCYUDA system. It is
proposed to make the approval of regulations implementing the
autonomous port decree, civilian control of the HMO and
establishment of a fiscal zone conditions for credit negotiations.
5.      MITT and PDA are privatizing port operations in stages, an
approach which was confirmed at a Workshop on Port Privatization in
September, 1996. Ship's agents and forwarders are already
privatized, as are tallying operations and the restaurant. Private
concessionaires had begun to operate in the port on the basis of
annual leases. Privatization of the trucking fleet is expected to
be completed by end-December, which will provide a test case for
the principal of providing separation packages for redundant
workers. The tendering of Ship Services Maritime Enterprise
(currently organized as a separate para-statal company) would also
take place before the credit is negotiated. PDA is also
investigating whether to tender grain discharging and distribution.
PDA proposes to reorganize its activities into well-defined profit
centers, as a first step towards the eventual privatizing of
general cargo handling. The progressive privatization of most port
operations will take place during the course of project
implementation, with the assistance of privatization consultants
who are currently preparing the framework and suitable "packages"
for privatizing.
6.      The process of privatizing port operations will create
considerable staff redundancy, as PDA staff (1525 employees in
-2 -



1995) is about three time that required to handle present volumes
of cargo. The Government has approved separation packages for port
workers to be financed by the port budget.
7.      A training component has also been agreed with PDA and
discussed with UNCTAD officials, who have agreed in principle to
the setting up of a locally oriented training program for both port
and non-port personnel. An assessment of the detailed training
needs will be made by an UNCTAD port training expert.
Project Objectives
8.      The overall objective of the project is to overcome
infrastructure bottlenecks to economic development. Specific
objectives are to improve the efficiency and effective capacity of
the Port of Durres by (a) rehabilitating infrastructure to
accommodate anticipated traffic demand and attract transit traffic;
(b) increasing commercial orientation by establishing an autonomous
port, privatizing port operations, improving Customs procedures,
and improving operations and safety; taking environmental concerns
into account.
Project Description
9.      The project includes reconstructing berths 6 and 7 at the
port of Durres, partial reconstruction of other berths, navigation
aids, lighting, rehabilitation of the workshop and warehouses,
crane rehabilitation, environmental protection measures, customs
facilitation, studies and technical assistance, and redundancy
packages.
Project Financing
10.     The project is estimated to cost US$21.0 million, including
US$15.2 million in foreign and US$5.8 million in local costs. The
project would be financed by IDA (US$15.0 million), the OPEC Fund
(US$5.0 million) and the Government (US$1.0 million, the maximum
compatible with budgetary constraints).
Project Preparation and Implementation
11.     The project is being prepared on the basis of a Port Master
Plan Study, Technical and Economic study, assistance by
privatization advisors, and a detailed engineering study financed
by a US$0.5 million Japanese Grant. It would be implemented by MITT
and PDA, with the assistance of a Project Management Unit which was
established in MITT to help implement the Transport Project.
Project Sustainability
12.     The project supports the rehabilitation of infrastructure and
the commercialization and privatization of public corporations,
which are key objectives of Albania's development strategy and the
-3 -



Bank's country assistance strategy (para. 1). The project will
complement other IDA-financed transport projects, and act as a
catalyst for cofinancing and private investment.
13.     Privatization and commercialization are key elements of the
Government's economic reform policy, so that the establishment of
an autonomous port and the privatization of commercial services are
expected to be sustained assuming the resumption of satisfactory
macroeconomic policies discussed below. In addition, operational
and financial improvements represent the continuation of measures
which have been introduced and sustained to date under the
Transport Project. Adequate funds are expected to be available to
maintain project investments. May be incorporated into sections
relating to Project Benefits and Risk. Indicate how the project
design would contribute to the institutional and financial
sustainability of the project.The ongoing Transport and Rural Roads
Projects are being implemented in a generally satisfactory manner
(para. 3).
Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
14.     The main lessons learned from ongoing projects are the
importance of keeping the project objectives and design
straightforward, obtaining up-front action on difficult
institutional questions and providing technical assistance and
training where required. The borrower's absorptive capacity is
limited because of lack of familiarity with market-based concepts,
and the low level of civil service pay scales and related changes
in key personnel make institutional changes difficult. These
lessons are being taken into account through up-front actions on
the most important institutional changes and the provision of
technical assistance and training.
Poverty Category
15.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
16.     The project involves the rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, so it is proposed that the project is placed in
Category B in accordance with the provisions of OD 4.01. Durres
Harbor is not significantly polluted at present. PDA regulations
require that ships' waste be collected, and this is done at present
by a private company, which may need upgrading. The rehabilitation
of berths and the improvement of port operations under the project,
as well as the survey of port soils, the preparation of an Oil
Pollution Emergency Plan, and the provision of anti-pollution
equipment, are expected to help improve the enforcement of
environmental regulations.
Program Objective Categories (none)
Project Benefits
-4-



17.     The rehabilitation of operational areas, the improvement of
operational and financial practices and the establishment of an
autonomous port authority will improve productivity and reduce
operating and maintenance costs. Berth strengthening will permit
PDA to handle containers and other heavy cargoes, and prevent two
berth closures. Rehabilitation of the breakwater and new navigation
aids in the access channel will primarily improve safety,
precluding the possibility of port closure due to an accident. The
ERR for the port component is estimated to be 20- based on the
reduction of ships waiting time and pilferage, or 14t if no
institutional improvements take place.
18.     Two rehabilitation options were assessed: (a) rehabilitating
two quays (7 & 8) to use for heavy bulk and container traffic; and
(b) rehabilitating four quays (5,6,7 & 8). Under option (a), quays
5 & 6 would become unsafe to operate and would need to be shut down
within five or six years. However, it is expected both quays 7 & 8
will be required for bulk traffic, so that container traffic would
have to be moved elsewhere. Since quays 5 & 6 are in the middle of
the port operating area, they would have to be rehabilitated a few
years later anyway, since they would otherwise impede the movement
of containers and other operations. Since the cost of carrying out
these works under a separate contract is expected to be
significantly higher than carrying them out under the project,
option (b) was selected.
Contact Point:           Peter Parker,  Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2956
Fax No.: (202) 477-0301
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 16, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Environment
The project is based on the rehabilitation and improved maintenance
of existing infrastructure. It is, therefore, proposed that the
project be placed in environmental category B in accordance with
the provisions of OD 4.01. Civil works would be subject to a
limited environmental review. Durres harbor is not significantly
polluted at present, but this may change as traffic grows. PDA
regulations require that ships' waste be collected, and this is
done at present by a private company, which may need upgrading its
processing capacity in the future. The rehabilitation of berths and
the improvement of port operations under the project, as well as
the survey of port soils, the preparation of an Oil Pollution
Emergency Plan, and the provision of anti-pollution equipment, are
expected to help improve the enforcement of environmental
regulations. Under clauses in the bidding documents, contractors
will be responsible for keeping every worksite pollution-free and
for returning jobsites to their original condition.
- 6 -



