                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 32287

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (COFN-04130 TF-29484 IDA-30680)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION
                             (17.0 US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                        ALBANIA

                                          FOR A

                                  DURRES PORT PROJECT




                                       June 24, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective June 2005)

              Currency Unit = LEK
                     1 LEK = US$ 0.01
                      US$ 1 = LEK 100

                    FISCAL YEAR
               January 1    December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EIB             European Investment Bank
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
EU              European Union
GDC             General Directorate of Customs
GOA             Government of Albania
HMO             Harbor Master's Office
IDA             International Development Association
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICITAP          International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance Program
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IMO             International Maritime Organization
MITT            Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade
MoF             Ministry of Finance
MPWT            Ministry of Public Works and Transport
NATO            North Atlantic Treaty Organisation
OPEC Fund       The OPEC Fund for International Development
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PDA             Port of Durres Authority
PHARE           European Union Technical Assistance Program for the Central
                and Eastern European Countries
PMU             Project Management Unit




             Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
            Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
            Sector Manager       Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
             Task Manager:       Olivier Le Ber, ECSIE

                                           ALBANIA
                                       DURRES PORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution                                                   25
Map IBRD No. 28506R

Project ID: P040818                                                  Project Name: DURRES PORT
Team Leader: Olivier Le Ber                                          TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: DURRES PORT                                              L/C/TF Number: COFN-04130; TF-29484;
                                                                                                     IDA-30680
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (97%); Central government
                            administration (3%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/24/1995                                     Effective: 08/15/1998                12/04/1998
     Appraisal: 12/02/1996                                         MTR: 12/31/2001                  03/29/2002
      Approval: 05/12/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
                                           TRANSPORT
                      Other Partners:      OPEC Fund

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Olivier Le Ber                                 Peter Parker
ICR Primary Author:             Mirtha Pokorny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objectives of the project, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), were to improve
the efficiency and the effective capacity of the Port of Durres, taking environmental considerations into
account, by (i) increasing its commercial orientation through the establishment of an autonomous port
authority, privatizing port operations, improving customs procedures, and improving operations and safety;
and, (ii) rehabilitating port infrastructure to accommodate anticipated traffic demand and attract transit
traffic. The project objectives were well in line with the government strategy to establish market-based
policies in the transport sector, with the objective of harmonizing transport regulations with those of the
European Union (EU). In addition, the Bank-supported 1996-1998 Public Investment Plan noted that
substantial increases in public sector investments were required to develop Albania's inadequate
infrastructure and reduce the existing severe bottlenecks for economic development. Improving the
efficiency and effective capacity of the Port of Durres, the main lifeline of the country, was early on
identified as one of the high priorities in the sector. Project objectives correctly focused on all aspects of
port efficiency, from the division of responsibilities between the private and public sectors to the interface
between the port and other private and public institutions.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project components as described in the PAD were:
 (a) Civil works (estimated cost: US$8.1 million), including:
          l Rebuilding the wind screen and repairs of the armor of the main breakwater (the poor state
               of which might endanger port operations)
          l Repairs to quays 1 and 6 (which would become unsafe in 5 or 6 years and lower port
               throughput by 20%)
          l Rebuilding or recasting the coping beam face of quays 2 to 4, 7 and 8, and grouting up voids
               in quays 2 to 4
          l Replacing tie rods in the east quay
          l New fenders
          l Surfacing and drainage behind quays 4, 5 and 6, and between quay 2 and the PDA office
          l Resurfacing the road from quay 8 to the new port road and surfacing new access roads to the
               container yard and to the east quay
 (b) Navigation Aids
 (c) Port lighting (estimated cost: US$0.5 million)
          l Replacement of the port's entire lighting network
 (d) Warehouses and Offices (estimated cost: US$1.5 million)
          l Rehabilitation of up to three port warehouses to provide a bonded warehouse for customs
               and facilitate leasing or concessioning
          l Rehabilitation of the Harbor's Master Office (HMO)
 (e) Modernization of Cranes (estimated costs: US$5.9 million)

         l Purchase of 5 new cranes
         l     Rehabilitation of 7 cranes
         l     Spare parts
 (f)   Anti-pollution Actions (estimated cost: US$0.4 million)
          l Equipment to prevent spills from possible oil accident




                                                     - 2 -

          l Relocation of iron ore stockpile
 (g) Customs Modernization (estimated cost: US$0.4 million)
          l Physical improvements to expand the fiscal zone to the whole port area.
 (h) Miscellaneous equipment (estimated cost: US$0.4 million)
          l Office equipment for the Port Authority, the HMO, the Institute of Transport Studies in
               Tirana, and the Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Ministry of Public Works and
               Transport (MPWT)
 (i)  Studies (estimated cost: US$1 million) including:
          l Secondary Ports study
          l Survey of dredging material
          l Oil Pollution emergency Plan
          l Urban Transport Improvement study for the City of Tirana
 (j)  Technical Assistance (estimated cost : US$1.0 million) for:
          l The Port Authority on privatization and regulation of private operators. To set up private
               cargo-handling companies and other private enterprises for port activities; to prepare a set of
               port rules and regulations and a Port Authority Law, commercialize the Port Maintenance
               and stevedores. Associated with a strategy prepared after related workshops with major
               stakeholders
          l Project Coordination
          l Supervision of Port Works
(k)   Training (estimated cost: US$0.4 million)
          l Establishment of a Port Training Center
          l Training delivery, including trips abroad
          l Training material

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not substantially revised but adjustments were made to change the size and scope
of some of them, which resulted in adjustments to the amounts allocated to each category. The Credit
Agreement was amended on July 7, 2000 to partially reallocate funds from the goods category to works,
increasing the pari-pasu for works on offices, warehouses and customs installations to 94% and for
rehabilitation of berths and the breakwater to 56%. The amendment also included the provision of technical
assistance for privatization and regulation of private operations of PDA, establishing a training center for
PDA, project audits and supervision of works and Project coordination. Other changes, not necessarily
effected through changes in the legal agreements, included (i) the substantial reduction of the size of the
civil works financed under the project due to the unforeseen higher costs; (ii) the impossibility of carrying
out some of the proposed works because of the presence in the port of NATO forces in relation to the
Kosovo crisis; (iii) the expansion of the original list of technical assistance and studies to incorporate a
Land Use Plan and the implementation of security measures developed by the International Maritime
Organization (IMO) after credit approval; and, (iv) the inclusion of actions to secure a custom zone
through the introduction of cargo tracking systems and improvements of institutional aspects of port
security, as well as actions to relocate families occupying port premises. Details of these changes are
discussed in section 4 of this report.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR finds the quality at entry to be marginally satisfactory. The assessment is based on the following
considerations: (i) the PAD explicitly identified as the main lesson learned from previous Bank's
involvement in the country and the sector the need to keep the project very simple, so as to not exceed the
local absorptive capacity. While there is no indication that project implementation was in any way
negatively affected by lack of local capacity the project was far from simple, comprehensively covering



                                                    - 3 -

most major structural aspects of port development, including difficult interagency relations, in an apparent
disconnect between the perceptions of the project team and actual project design; (ii) the level of
engineering carried out during project preparation was insufficient, bidding documents were not based on
final designs, costs were substantially underestimated and the amount of civil works had to be reduced by
almost 50%; and, (iii) up front project conditionality related to the port's legal framework was very
optimistic and its actual meaningful accomplishment required substantial groundwork that was completed
at a late stage of the project life. In spite of these flaws, the project did address the main priorities of the
sector that had been thoroughly identified during the previous Bank-financed project. The preparation took
into account the Bank's safeguard policies including the preparation of an appropriate environmental
management plan. The project risks were appropriately assessed and addressed in the project design, and
the Bank's worldwide experience with similar projects was applied.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR finds that with some qualifications, the two stated objectives of improving infrastructure and
increasing the commercial outlook of the port, were achieved. The infrastructure was clearly improved:
quays were rehabilitated, warehouses were modernized and access roads were upgraded. The physical
quantities of works were below original estimates, both because the underestimation of their cost and the
difficult circumstances surrounding the first two or three years of project implementation. The project was
affected first by the political unrest related to the financial losses of a "pyramid scheme", and subsequently
by the presence of NATO and Italian Customs and Financial Police in the port, which disrupted the
improvement plans, captured the focus of attention of port management and disturbed port operations.
Nevertheless it is safe to say that, even when the operational improvements of the port were somewhat less
than expected because of the postponement of some of the civil works, the port's physical infrastructure is
today in a much better shape than before the project started.

The objective to increase the commercial orientation of the port was also mostly achieved. The main
elements of this objective were: (i) changing the port status into a joint stock company with PDA able to
operate as a "landlord" port; (ii) increasing the role of the private sector in port operations; and, (iii)
creating a customs zone in the port to increase port efficiency. Outcomes in those areas were as follows:

Changing the Port's Legal and Regulatory Status. The establishment of the Port of Durres as a joint
stock company, a condition for credit effectiveness, was achieved in late 1998. However the necessary
legal framework to fully implement the model of a "landlord" port in which PDA will be responsible for
land management and infrastructure while the private sector will deal with operations and superstructure,
was only achieved with the approval of the Albania Port Authority Law on September 8, 2003. The
Council of Ministers approved on September 10, 2004 the establishment of Durres Port Joint Stock
Company as the authority of the Durres Port. Approval of crucial bylaws, i.e. the establishment of a
Supervisory Board and an Advisory council, the transfer to PDA of the of ship dues currently collected by
the Harbor Master and transferred to the Ministry of Finance (MoF), the definition of the correct level of
cost recovery for port infrastructure, and the allocation for responsibility of past loans, are still in process.
These by-laws have already been drafted with the support of international consultants as are awaiting
government approval. The Advisory Council is already functioning with mostly public officials and the
appointment of private sector representatives is expected shortly.

Increasing the Role of the Private Sector. As part of the Credit Agreement, the GoA was committed to
the implementation of a Privatization and Manpower Action Plan which included, inter-alia, (i) setting up
early in 1998 two separate and competing profit centers to operate as two embryo stevedoring company
that, after a period of about twelve months would be privatized; (ii) privatizing the technical and




                                                        - 4 -

maintenance departments; and, (iii) reducing staff from 1520 people in 1998 to 296 in 2003.

The stevedoring companies, comprising staff previously in the port's payroll, were finally created in
mid-2000 and given a two- year contract which granted them a quasi-monopoly.                 Payments were
established as a fix percentage of port revenues and the companies would be exposed to full competition at
the end of the two-year period. In 2002 the contract was extended for an additional year, but by the end of
that period the full privatization kept being postponed. By the end of 2004 the government, following
Bank's recommendations, prepared license agreements to be granted to stevedoring companies authorized
to carry out cargo handling within PDA territory. Competition would be introduced progressively. The
first two licenses would be granted for ten years. A third license would be given in late 2006, a fourth in
2008 and full opening would be granted in 2010. The two original stevedoring companies have already
been licensed under revised contractual obligations incorporating incentives for efficiency and productivity
(e.g. payments no longer a percentage of revenues and obligation to pay on an hourly basis for equipment
rented from the port) and will be subjected to further incentives through the competition from a new
company in 2006, a crucial step to increase the incentives for the existing companies to fully adopt modern
working practices.

PDA, with the help of the project-financed technical assistance, also took the necessary preliminary steps
for the privatization of the technical and maintenance departments (i.e market studies, bidding documents,
manpower effects, etc). Tenders were launched in March 2005 and offers will be evaluated at the end of
May 2005. In addition, the project financed the preparation of the relevant studies and bidding documents
for the concession of the cement and grain terminals, the planned next steps in the privatization efforts.

The port had at the end of 2004 a staff of 526, about 990 less people than in 1998. In late 2004 the port
staff had decreased to 450, but it was subsequently increased to form the port police force. The important
and highly commendable reduction of redundant staff during the life of the project was obtained mainly
from the privatization of the stevedoring companies, natural attrition and reductions compensated by
severance payments. The PAD agreed that a target of 296 people by the end of the project would be
reached once PDA implements its plan to privatize the maintenance department and further reduces the
redundant staff.

Creating a Customs Zone. The Government and IDA agreed at negotiations that PDA would extend the
fiscal zone (customs controlled area) to the entire port, an objective that turned out to be particularly
difficult due to the resistance of customs to adopt the necessary changes, the need to revise port logistics
and layouts, and the difficulties in improving security. The latter was further complicated by the presence
of more than 100 families illegally occupying areas in the port. To solve those problems it was necessary
to make continuous revisions of the steps being supported by IDA and other donors. Among them: (i) a
Port Land Use Plan, financed under the project and adopted by the council of Ministers in 2000, provided
the appropriate layout for the Customs Controlled Area; (ii) an EIB/PHARE-financed new Ferry Terminal
Facility provided improved security, permitting movements of equipment within the port without leaving
the customs-controlled area; (iii) a new reinforced fence and port entrance was installed; (iv) the General
Directorate of Customs (GDC) is receiving training from the EU; and, (v) PDA is receiving assistance from
ICITAP (funded by the US government) on the security issues within the port area, focusing inter-alia on
establishing an independent port police force under the command of PDA. In November 2004, the Ministry
of Industry, Transport and Trade (MITT) requested MoF and GDC to declare the Port of Durres a customs
zone type "A" warehouse to be used by several authorized operators. The request was approved on April
2005. The next step requires each operator to submit an application to Customs for managing a type "A"
warehouse and demonstrate that it has implemented an adequate tracking system for the cargo under its
responsibility. On its side, the port needs to establish a zoning map of the port allowing precise recording



                                                     - 5 -

of the location of any cargo stored on yards or in warehouses. These steps are currently under way.

Conclusion. The ICR, based on the substantive progress made during the project to reach the stated
objectives, considers that the outcome was satisfactory. Even when many of the changes took place later
than expected and were not fully completed as planned, the durable transformation of Durres into a port
with a modern commercial outlook is quite commendable. However, these achievements are not fully
reflected in project monitoring indicators. Improvements in the productivity of cargo handling are small.
This is because the project actually set the basis for PDA to operate on a commercial basis, contributing to:
(i) prepare a Port Law and related regulations aimed at setting up PDA as a fully autonomous joint stock
company; (ii) clearly define the governance of the port sector incorporating the private sector in a
Supervisory Board; (iii) privatize stevedoring services and create a system for gradually increasing
competition in the provision of those services; (iv) prepare bidding documents for the privatization of
mechanical services and grain and cement terminals; and, (v) identify and implement measures to increase
port security and create a customs zone. But all these changes are not yet fully operational and therefore
do not yet fully impact the port's efficiency statistics.

Many of the legal and regulatory changes were originally expected very early in project implementation
(e.g. creation of the customs zone by 2000). The substantial lag between the originally expected and actual
timing of events can be attributed to unrealistic expectations of the project preparation team, an
underestimation of the difficulties of producing results involving the consensus of several agencies, a slow
moving Albanian bureaucracy coupled with frequent changes in government authorities, resistance of
certain groups and/or lack of political will to implement some of the required reforms, and a one year delay
caused by riots and social unrest related to the "pyramid scheme" that resulted in serious disruptions of port
operations. The challenge faced now by PDA is to finalize the bylaws and fully implement the new Law of
Ports, reducing political interference with port management, incorporating fair competition in cargo
handling services, and concession terminal operations. The task is not simple, since some undesirable
legacies of the past remain in place and will take time to eradicate. Overall, and considering the significant
improvement of the legal framework conducing to more efficiency and private sector involvement, the
institutional part of the project is considered very successful.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Civil works. This project component was substantially scaled down when the estimated costs for the
rehabilitation of the quays and breakwater, which postponed soil investigation to the construction phase,
increased by more than a 100%. The consulting contract for detailed engineering of quay rehabilitation was
financed by a Japanese Grant. During the inception report the Borrower was given the alternative of
carrying out the study urgently, using existing data and postponing the full soil investigation to the
construction phase, or performing the soil investigation prior to completing the bidding documents. The
Borrower selected the first alternative.     As a result, works on (i) rebuilding or recasting the coping beam
for quays 2 to 4, 7 and 8; (ii) surfacing and drainage behind quays 4, 5 and 6, and between quay 2 and the
PDA office; and, (iii) resurfacing the road from quay 8 to the new port road and surfacing new access
roads to the container yard, were deleted from the project. In addition, works on quay 1 could not be
performed because NATO forces occupied the quay following the Kosovo crisis. The lower than expected
amount of physical works implemented under the project resulted in operational efficiencies below those
planned.

The main civil works contract in this component was awarded to a Kuwaiti company for the rehabilitation
of quays 6 and 5 and the breakwater for an initial amount of about US$10.15 million and works, completed
in December 2002, were considered satisfactory by PDA. Contract implementation was not problem free,
mainly because the inclusion of the soil investigation in the contract led to disagreements between PDA and



                                                       - 6 -

the contractor on alternative solutions which could have resulted in substantial cost increases. It is
commendable that despite these differences, PDA with the help of the project- financed Procurement
Advisor, was able to keep cost increases below 15% and implementation within schedule.

In addition to the quay rehabilitation, the project financed several minor works, with an aggregate value of
about US$2 million including (i) removal of bitumen tanks obstructing efficient port operations; (ii) an
external boundary fence; (iii) minor works for demolition and cleaning of an area now being used for
indirect discharge; (iv) construction of an access road to the east quay which improved traffic movements
in that area and which required the removal of illegal houses built on the port's premises; and, (v)
compaction and drainage of the eastern area now being productively used as an open storage area for large
pieces of cargo and vehicles. Overall, the outcome of this component is considered satisfactory.

Navigation Aids. This component, comprising the replacement of buoys at the entrance channels was
deleted from the project and undertaken by the Italian navy.

Warehouses and Offices: Improvement of two warehouses and rehabilitation of the Harbor Master
building was carried out at a total cost of about US$0.2 million. This project component, originally
estimated to cost US$1.5 million was also reduced to accommodate the increased costs of the quay
rehabilitation works. The outcome is satisfactory.

Modernization of Cranes. The project financed two new 10 tons cranes at a cost of US$3.1 million.
Expenditures for this component were only 52% of the original allocation, mainly because PDA decided to
reconsider the crane rehabilitation program, and the funds for the purchase of additional new cranes was
reallocated to civil works. This component is considered moderately satisfactory.

Anti-pollution Actions.     The project included funds for the removal of bitumen tanks and iron ore
stockpiles to improve environmental and operational conditions, as well as the purchase of dispersants and
related equipment. Removal of the iron stockpile was carried out with the port's own resources. The credit
financed the removal of bitumen tanks, oil spills related equipment, and office equipment for the newly
created Environmental Department in PDA, at a cost of US$0.08 million. The ICR rates this component
highly satisfactory.

Customs Modernization. Many civil works and technical assistance items financed under the project and
included under different project components were aimed at modernizing the interface between customs and
port operations (e.g. warehouse improvements, fencing, security, a Land Use Study, etc.). The project also
included the design of alternative housing for the families occupying port premises at a cost of about
US$0.04 million. Financing for the construction of the alternative housing and the relocation of the
families was provided by the GoA and implemented following Albanian procedures acceptable to IDA. The
outcome of this component is satisfactory.

Miscellaneous Equipment . The project financed office equipment, computers, and other related goods for
the Port Authority, the HMO, the Institute of Transport Studies in Tirana, and the Project Management
Unit in MPWT for a total cost of about US$0.38 million, in line with the appraisal expected US$0.4
million.

Technical Assistance and Studies. The project financed a series of technical assistance and studies that
were instrumental in defining port organization and management.        In particular: (i) the Land Use Plan,
completed in 2000 was prepared as a shorter term alternative to updating a Port Master Plan that had
become obsolete for Durres needs. Recommendations of the study provided the basic blueprint for port
development during the last four years; and, (ii) the recommendations provided by the Environmental
Assessment and Dredging Study, completed in 2002,             were also considered highly relevant by the
Borrower and most of them were implemented. They included aspects related to dredging, handling of risks
associated with fuel terminals, the establishment of an Environment Department, contingency plans for oil


                                                      - 7 -

spills, etc. The Technical Cooperation for Privatizing Port Operations and Restructuring Port
Management, implemented between 1998 and 2004, supported the reorganization of PDA, the creation of
the stevedoring companies, the development of rules and regulations for port operations and for port
governance, including the reorganization of the Maritime Directorate and the Harbor Master offices, and
prepared the strategy and documentation for future port concessions. In addition the project financed
several other studies related to secondary ports, design and evaluation of port infrastructure, and a Tirana
Urban Traffic Management Study which prepared a five­year action plan and served as the basis for
several traffic management policies being currently implemented by the Municipality of Tirana. The total
cost of this component was US$2.0 million, 100% above appraisal estimate, mainly because of the addition
of several contracts such as the already mentioned Land Use Plan, a Fiscal Zone Assistance Program
related to port security, audits of PDA and the project account, procurement advisory services, etc. This
component is rated as highly satisfactory.

Training. The project financed the establishment of a training center at the port, provided training in areas
such as marketing, containers, ferry terminals, environmental issues, design and implementation of
accounting and financial management systems, etc. and aimed to train trainers in order to ensure the
sustainability of the efforts and have in the port a reliable tool for the port's training needs. While the
physical training facilities are in place, and important training in house and abroad took place during
project implementation, PDA uses the facility sporadically actually postponing the incorporation in the port
of modern operational practices.      The total cost of this project component was US$0.68 million as
compared to the US$0.4 million estimated at appraisal. This component was moderately satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The estimated ex-post economic analysis replicated the methodology used at appraisal incorporating actual
investments and postponing some of the expected benefits derived from the institutional development
components, such as the expected savings in ships waiting time and the reduction of pilferage. The analysis
excluded estimated financial benefits accruing to the port and to customs that were taken into account at
appraisal. As in the appraisal, it was assumed that 60% of the savings in ships waiting time would accrue
to Albania. The ex-post evaluation yielded an estimated EER of 11.0%, as compared to the 18.3%
expected at appraisal, and a net present value of US$430,000, calculated using the PAD's estimated
opportunity cost of capital of 10%. The substantially lower return is mostly explained by the increased
cost of the physical component of the project and the elimination of important elements of the port
rehabilitation program, plus the fact that some of the efficiency gains expected from the project are only
slowly materializing. On the other hand, cost increases were partially compensated by an increase in traffic
22% above appraisal estimate.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial ex-post rate of return was calculated for the project, since it would be highly conjectural to
isolate the effects of the project from those concurrent interventions from other donors. The project targets
related to the port's financial performance were fully achieved.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was substantial. The port of Durres is now well
positioned to start operating in a short period of time as a "landlord port". It evolved from a monolithic
state operated port into a series of market focused companies. Non-core businesses have been spun off
through a series of subsidiaries; most of them have been privatized, and the remaining ones are in the
process of being privatized. Security at the port is improving and the conditions for the establishment of a
reliable customs zone are being met. While there is still resistance at some government levels to fully
incorporate core principles of autonomy and governance in port management, the changes already in place
are substantive. The fact that these changes are supported by the law guarantees the medium and long run


                                                     - 8 -

impact of the project.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project preparation and the initial years of project implementation were negatively affected by the deep
financial crisis and ensuing political upheaval caused by the failings of what became known as the
"pyramid scheme". Subsequently, the crisis in Kosovo and the illegal flow of people to Italy turned the
port into a strategic base for NATO forces and Italian Police, causing serious disruptions to normal port
operations and additional costs to PDA. Bank missions during the first two or three years of the project
collaborated in creating a collegial environment to accommodate NATO and the Italian Police needs
through the use of port facilities that would minimize the impact on port operations and project
implementation.      Eventually a modus operandi satisfactory to all the parties was put in place.
Nevertheless, these disruptions caused a delay of more than one year in project implementation. As a
result, the credit closing date was extended from December 2003 to December 2004. The tightening of
security guidelines imposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) as part of worldwide efforts
to improve port security, served as a catalyst to accelerate the improvements in Durres that were a
necessary condition to create a customs zone. With the help of the US Government under the International
Criminal Investigative Training Assistance Program (ICITAP), the GoA is implementing the required
standards in order to comply with the IMO's code for International Ship and Port Security. A Port Security
Law was recently approved, and is under implementation. PDA has already recruited and is training
security personnel with the assistance of ICITAP. Those developments have played an important role in
enhancing project sustainability.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project not only required important policy decisions effectively reshaping the culture of the port sector
but resolute interventions to deal with unexpected non-project related issues. The government, although at a
pace that probably frustrated the Bank supervision team, did comply with most of its commitments.
Progress in privatization and customs modernization could have probably taken place faster with the
presence of a strong-minded "champion" of reform. But it is also true that several changes in government
plus the need to attend to pressing issues in port operations slowed down the project. The government had
to deal with a myriad of difficult problems such as the presence of NATO and the Italian Police, the
relocation of families through a process involving several agencies; the movement of impounded ships
blocking operations; negotiations for the movement of fuel tanks to more secure areas; etc. In addition, it
had to deliver important changes in the legal and regulatory framework of the sector, overhaul customs
behavior and deal with strong vested interests opposed to the proposed reforms.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency was committed to improve the financial and operational efficiency of the port
and tried to accomplish it with as much diligence as possible, although in many cases it was an uphill battle
to change the political culture of state control or the old working habits of the staff transferred to the
stevedoring companies. The reluctance to make full use of the training center in order to continuously
improve staff performance is a sign that more work has to be done to instill in the port a modern vision of
efficiency and competitiveness. In spite of the serious and numerous hurdles encountered during project
implementation (many exogenous to the port sector), PDA was always willing to move forward with the
project agenda, tried to maximize the know-how transfer provided by the international consultants, and was
eager to implement the highly influential recommendations of the land use and environmental studies. The
next steps will be to fully internalize in the port a culture of efficiency and accountability. Making full use



                                                       - 9 -

of the training facilities supported under the project, an aspect in which PDA has not been particularly
successful, will be the best way to ensure the professionalism and competitiveness of the port.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs amounted to US$23.0 million as estimated at appraisal. As explained above, these costs are
not readily comparable since civil works under the project were substantially downscaled. The project was
co-financed by a US$5 million loan from the OPEC Fund. Both loans were fully disbursed.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is highly likely. This is because the changes achieved are embodied in the law, the
privatization and staff reductions that have been carried out are basically irreversible, the investments made
in the project are permanent and in use, and port management has been reorganized and improved. There
are concerns of possible short-term set backs, such as the resistance of the central government to forfeit
port dues, or the inclination of the government to seriously consider unsolicited bids for port services that
may not be in the best interest of the country or the port. But the strong incentives to operate the port with
a commercial outlook will likely prevail. These range from the inclusion of users in the Advisory Board,
to the competition of more efficient ports in neighboring countries trying to win the same transit traffic than
Durres.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No transition to regular operations is needed. The port is continuing to operate regularly, although with a
new approach. The government might need further support to further develop Durres infrastructure for
bulk cargo and to apply the new law and the "landlord" concept to the other major ports in the country. A
technical assistance component of a future Bank proposed Transport Project is expected to include funds
for further port institutional development. But the needs for infrastructure are still not met, and the Bank
should consider further involvement in that area.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank staff carried out project preparation in a professional manner. It recognized and responded to the
need to establish a new legal and institutional framework for the port and its interface with customs, while
attending to basic infrastructure and operational needs. The caveats to this assessment are related to the
lack of ex-ante engineering for the civil works and in retrospect, to the fact that the project was designed to
fine-tune the implementation of the main legal and institutional changes of the port that were supposed to
take place during the early stages of the project. The fact that the project turned out to be the vehicle for
the partial achievement of those changes points to the already mentioned unexpected problems (i.e. political
unrest, the Kosovo crisis) but also to the optimistic reading of what was involved in achieving the sought
after reforms. For the above reasons, Bank performance during preparation is considered unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision was highly satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out on a regular basis,
normally twice a year, with competent professional staff. Project supervision activity became much
broader than the review of progress on each component. The World Bank team not only played an
important role in the discussions of the legal and institutional reforms of the port, but it also participated in
critical discussions of port operations and in the interaction with government and nongovernmental
stakeholders. In fact, many times supervision reports devoted considerable amount of time to pressing


                                                    - 10 -

non-project issues such as minimizing the impact of NATO presence, relocating tank farms, addressing the
relocation of families, or the removal of impounded vessels. The supervision team should also be
commended for its unfailing perseverance in pressing for the necessary reforms supported under the
project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory, given the complexity of the project and the strenuous
circumstances of its early implementation stages.          Most components of the project were completed,
including the significant restructuring of the port that was achieved during the duration of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was integrally involved in project preparation; it was the Borrower's vision and project.
Specific components were defined to upgrade the port's infrastructure and modernize customs operations
within the port and, especially, to transform the port along the lines of the successful "landlord" model
prevalent in the Western world. For the above reasons, Borrower performance during preparation is
considered satisfactory.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Albanian Government, the Minister Public Works and Transport and the Port of Durres Directorate
took the necessary steps to create a legal and institutional framework for a modern port sector. This
implied very tough adjustment and retrenchment decisions that were necessary to reduce the port's physical
and human resources to meet the market demand and the industry's acceptable performance standards. The
challenge for the future is to move from the formal elements of the reform to the incorporation in the
day-to-day business of the basic principles of a commercial oriented port. In this aspect, autonomy of the
port, the full privatization of stevedoring companies, or the concession of terminals through open
competition, face strong opposition and are still at the incipient stage. For the above reasons, Borrower
performance during implementation is considered satisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, port management responded in an effective way to the institutional changes supported by the
project. Organization changes and staff levels were adjusted as necessary and possible considering the
difficulties of dealing with the resistance to adopt new forms of approaching port operations. The port has
now the responsibility to ensure that its staff and the stevedoring companies working there fully adopt
modern operational practices. In that sense the training center financed under the project which is currently
used only sporadically, should serve its original purpose of providing for a continuous process of securing
the professionalism of port staff.

The Project Management Unit did a very good job of coordinating all the procurement and disbursement
activities associated with the loan and keeping the project on schedule and on target. Project records were
updated on a current basis and reports were produced on time. Overall performance during implementation
is considered fully satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactory. All the physical project components were completed.
Efforts on port reforms and customs modernization have been commendable, even when the results are
lagging with respect to original expectations. But in general, the government is moving in the right
direction at a steady pace in a politically difficult area.



                                                       - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned

The objective of the loan was to support and to deepen the Port of Durres restructuring process in Albania.
The conditionality of the loan required the creation of a legal and institutional framework under which the
restructuring process would continue. The project succeeded in advancing the reform process even when
major dated covenants were significantly delayed and monitoring targets were only partially achieved. This
apparent contradiction proposes the following lessons:

The project created a partnership relationship between the Government, the Port and the Bank that had a
major influence on the reforms beyond the scope of the loan, and beyond the specifics of each component
that it financed. The important international and domestic factors influencing the GoA and the Port created
forces within the transport sector that were not foreseen at the time of preparation. The Port and the Bank
needed to adjust and readjust to keep in step with new developments, a process that in many cases
prevented the compliance with project conditionality. The Bank should consider that restructuring projects
need not and should not be planned in detail far in advance. The only exception should be the design and
implementation of up-front actions that are a necessary condition for facilitating implementation of the
project if they appear to be feasible immediately. What is important during project preparation is to assess
the government's commitment to the reform and agree on its basic principles (i.e. the main sector issues,
the strategy to deal with those issues, objectives of the restructured agency, the level of freedom entrusted
to the management, time horizon of specific actions, and how the government plans to exercise its oversight
function). The context of restructuring is likely to change once the work gets underway. Supervision is the
right time for the details of the project's policy and institutional components. During preparation there are
risks that eagerness to comply with preset demands results in plans prepared out of context. If there are
changes in the government or other changing circumstances, the general principles should be reviewed and
revised if necessary.      If there are specific targets, they should be reviewed and revised without
compromising the overall reform objectives. This approach to project preparation will save costs and lead
to quicker and better project implementation that can take advantage of windows of opportunity as they
open. Furthermore, the Bank credibility would not be jeopardized by strict covenants that are not complied
with.

In projects with significant institutional development or restructuring objectives, supervision missions
acquire reviewing and consulting responsibilities that go beyond the project components. The role of the
Bank supervision team is to guide the process towards the shared agreed objectives. The Bank can
encourage and assist the Borrower's Management team to make the tough decisions to continue with the
necessary reform program, while at the same time building support for such actions at the Government
level. The details of the different project components should be reviewed only when is needed, and when is
needed, the Bank should make available all the necessary resources to ensure the satisfactory
implementation of the component.

Finally, an obvious lesson; The Bank should not allow its well-established practice of financing projects
with sound feasibility studies to weaken. Solid cost estimates are a necessary condition for the preparation
of projects financing important civil works. It is often the case that review of the project feasibility
generates in-depth examination of the rationale for the definition and quantification of benefits, while many
times the expected economic net benefits of a project vanish because of inadequate evaluation of the costs.




                                                     - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following letters were received from the Ministry of Finance on June 24, 2005 and from Ministry of
Transports and Telecommunications on June 22, 2005.             In addition, the PIU provided a detailed
contribution to the ICR (see annex 8) which is reflected in the final ICR.




                                                   - 13 -

- 14 -

                                    Republic of Albania
                                    Ministry of Finance

Prot. No. 4094/2

Tirana, June 24, 2005

  Re: Comments on the Implementation Completion Report for Durres Port Project (credit no.
                                          3068 ALB)


To: Mr. Nadir Mohammed
Country Manager & Head of Mission
Tirana World Bank Office

On behalf of the Ministry of Finance I would like to thank you for the contribution in financing
and implementing the Durres Port Project financed by an IDA credit.

After having received the ICR and discussing it with the Ministry of Transports and
Telecommunications experts, we would like to state that we agree with its content.

We thank you for the cooperation, and hope and trust in the same spirit of cooperation in other
projects as well.

Sincerely

The Minister
Arben Malaj




                                             - 15 -

                                          Republic of Albania
                            Ministry of Transports and Telecommunications
                                  General Department of Programming

Prot. No. 2793/1

Tirana, June 22, 2005

                    Re: Implementation Completion Report for Durres Port Project

To: The World Bank Office
Cc: Ministry of Finance

In response to your letter of June 7, 2005, via which you submit the Implementation Completion
Report for the Durres Port Project, I would like to seize this opportunity to once again on my
personal behalf and on that of the Government of Albania extend our appreciation and convey the
highest consideration for the continuous support that the World Bank has been proving to the
infrastructure development of the Albanian transports.

We would also like to thank your team of experts, who have been a very essential part of the
success of this very important Project, and would like to conclude by saying that we have no
comments, observations or suggestions on the ICR.

We thank you for your understanding, and hope and trust in our future cooperation.

The Minister
Spartak Poçi


(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from the cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.

10. Additional Information

No additional information




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Ship Congestion Factor (Ship Waiting Rate): 40%                                 50%
Days waiting for berth/Time at berth x 100
Berth Occupation Rate: Time berth           60%                                 105%
occupied/Time berth available x 100
Berth Utilization Rate: Time ship worked at 75%                                 65%
berth/Time ship at berth x 100
Berth Throughput Indicator: Annual general  700                                 1200
cargo tonnage handled per linear meter of
berth
Manpower Management: Total number of        400                                 526
PDA staff at year end at each stage of the
privatization process
Working Ratio < 72%                         72%                                 48%
Operating Ratio < 78%                       78%                                 74%
An Average Return (for each fiscal year):   5%                                  n.a.
beginning January 1999 of no less than 5%
on a three year average of net fixed assets


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Establishment of the port as a Joint Stock  Completed                           Completed
Company
Privatization of Stevedoring Services       Substantially completed             Substantially Completed
Creation of a Customs zone in the port.     Substantially completed             Substantially Completed.


1End of project
The PAD did not include a log frame matrix. The table above includes the main expected outputs.




                                                             - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Civil Works                                                    8.10          13.20             63
Navigational aids                                              0.20            0.00             0
Lighting *                                                     0.50            0.00             0
Warehouses                                                     1.50            0.40            27
Cranes and Spare Parts                                         5.90            3.90            66
Anti-pollution                                                 0.40            0.20            50
Customs Modernization                                          0.40            0.10            25
Miscellaneous equipment                                        0.40            1.60           400
Studies                                                        1.00            0.90            10
Technical Assistance                                           1.00            2.00           200
Training                                                       0.40            0.70           175

Total Baseline Cost                                           19.80          23.00
  Physical Contingencies                                       2.00            0.00
  Price Contingencies                                          1.20            0.00
                           Total Project Costs                23.00          23.00
                    Total Financing Required                  23.00          23.00
* Lighting was included in a civil work contract



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB          NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                               10.60         0.00          0.00         0.00       10.60
                                       (4.70)        (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (4.70)
2. Goods                                7.00         0.00          2.90         0.00        9.90
                                       (7.00)        (0.00)      (2.90)         (0.00)     (9.90)
3. Services                             0.00         0.00          2.50         0.00        2.50
                                       (0.00)        (0.00)      (2.40)         (0.00)     (2.40)
   Total                               17.60         0.00          5.40         0.00       23.00
                                      (11.70)        (0.00)      (5.30)         (0.00)    (17.00)




                                                  - 18 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 7.66               1.50              0.14             5.00             14.30
                                           (6.70)             (1.20)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (8.01)
   2. Goods                                 3.10               0.00              0.39             0.00              3.49
                                           (3.10)             (0.00)            (0.39)            (0.00)           (3.49)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.07             0.50              5.57
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.07)            (0.00)           (5.07)
       Total                                10.76              1.50              5.60             5.50             23.36
                                           (9.80)             (1.20)            (5.57)            (0.00)           (16.57)
  * Differences due to rounding
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Civil Works                     3.85         0.90         5.00        7.16         0.90       4.94       186.0    100.0     98.8
Navigation Aids                 0.20         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Lighting                        0.60         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Warehousing                     2.00         0.00         0.00        0.34         0.13       0.06       17.0      0.0       0.0
Cranes and Spare Parts          4.50         0.00         0.00        3.13         0.00       0.00       69.6      0.0       0.0
Anti-pollution                  0.35         0.00         0.00        0.46         0.90       0.00       131.4     0.0       0.0
Customs Modernization           0.30         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Miscellaneous                   0.50         0.00         0.00        1.72         0.00       0.00       344.0     0.0       0.0
Studies                         0.90         0.10         0.00        0.92         0.12       0.00       102.2    120.0      0.0
Technical assistance            1.10         0.00         0.00        2.95         0.50       0.00       268.2     0.0       0.0
Training                        0.40         0.00         0.00        0.65         0.28       0.00       162.5     0.0       0.0

  1. Customs Modernization and Anti-pollution Equipment were under one contract.
    2. Lighting equipment was purchased under a miscellaneous equipment contract.




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The estimated ex-post economic analysis replicated the methodology used at appraisal incorporating actual
investments and postponing by some of the expected benefits derived from the institutional development
components, such as the expected savings in ships waiting time and the reduction of pilferage. The analysis
excluded estimated financial benefits accruing to the port and to customs that were taken into account at
appraisal. As in the appraisal, it was assumed that 60% of the savings in ships waiting time would accrue
to Albania. It was further assumed that the average ship calling on Durres carries about 9000 Tons. and the
waiting cost is US$ 5000 per day. The ex-post evaluation yielded an estimated ERR of 11.0%, as
compared to the 18.3% expected at appraisal, and a net present value of US$ 430,000, calculated using the
PAD's estimated opportunity cost of capital of 10%. The substantially lower return is mostly explained by
the increased cost of the physical component of the project and the elimination of important elements of the
port rehabilitation program, plus the fact that some of the efficiency gains expected from the project are
only slowly materializing. On the other hand, cost increases were partially compensated by an increase in
traffic 22% above appraisal estimate.

                                       Cost Benefit Streams (US$)

   Year        Costs         Benefits                                          Net
                                                                             Benefits
                        Reduced Reduced         Technical     Stevedoring
                        Shipping Pilferage        Coop.      Productivity
                         Waiting
                          Times
     1         -5000        0                                                 -5000
     2         -5000        0                                                 -5000
     3         -5000        0                                                 -5000
     4         -3000       580         68         852             845         -1500
     5                     695        108         961             867         1764
     6                     775        177         1096            941         2048
     7                     896        258         1122            991         2276
     8                     919        353         1122           1083         2394
     9                     956        466         1173           1173         2595
    10                     1092       602         1222           1268         2916
    11                     1031       766         1277           1363         3074
    12                     1074       966         1333           1468         3373
    13                     1121      1018         1397           1570         3536
    14                     1174      1212         1458           1689         3844
    15                     2133      1212         1533           1830         4878
    16                     2133      1212         1626           1830         4971
    17                     2133      1212         1626           1830         4971
                                                                 IRR=          11%
                                                                 NPV=         499.71




                                                  - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count               Specialty                         Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               06/1995                         4    TM, TS, Economist, Consultant
               11/1995                         2    TM, TS
               7/1996                          3    TM, TS, Consultant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               12/1996                         4    TM, TS, Consultants
               11/1997                         4    TM, TS, OO, Consultant
               01/1998                         2    TM, Consultant

 Supervision
               07/1998                         5    TM, TS, PS, OO, Consultant
               12/1998                         5    TM, Consultant,TSL, TS, OO                            S
               07/1999                         3    TM, PE, PO, RM                         S              S
               10/1999                         2    PTL, PS                                S              S
               02/2000                         4    PTL, SPOS, TS, PO                      S              S
               06/2000                         3    TM, PS, PO                             U              S
               11/2000                         3    PTL, PS, PO                            S              S
               05/2001                         3    PTL, SPS, PO                           S              S
               12/2001                         1    STS                                    S              S
               03/2002                         4    TM, STS, PO                            S              S
               09/2002                         3    TM, STS,PO,LSS                         S              S
               02/2003                         2    TM, STS,PO                             S              S
               07/2003                         2    TM, PO                                 S              S
               03/2004                         2    TM, PO                                 S              S
               07/2004                         2    TM, PO                                 S              S
               10/2004                         2    TM,OO                                  S              S

 ICR


Abbreviations: TM=Task Manager, TS= Transport Specialist, STS= Senior Transport Specialist,
LTS= Lead Transport Specialist, PO= Projects Officer, OO= Operations Officer,
SPOS= Senior Port Operations Specialist, SPS= Senior Port Specialist, PA= Procurement Specialist,
PTL= Program Team Leader, TSM= Transport Sector Manager, LSS= Lead Social Scientist

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               No longer
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  supported by                            382
  Supervision                       Bank informtion                              690
  ICR                                         system                              30
  Total                                                                        1,102




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, The World Bank, 1998
Project Status Reports and Mission Aide Memoires
Studies prepared under the project:
     l The Tirana Urban Transport Study, Tecnic, 2002
     l The Secondary Ports Study, Institute of Transport Studies, 1999
     l The environmental studies, Wilbur Smith/TecIcon, 2003
     l The Land Use Study, Ray Lawler, 2000
     l The Austrian Railway Study, ARE, 1999
     l Durres Customs Zone, Ray Lawler, 2004
     l Design for the reloaction of families, ISKN, 2004
     l Design/Supervision for the Eastern Quay and back-up area, ITP, 2004
     l Design of Quay 10-11, TECHNiTAL S.p.a, 2004
     l PDA 5 year Business Plan, Roland Starkey, 2004
     l Design of Boundary Fencing, 2002
     l Design and Supervision of CW, DanPort, 2004
     l Design for the rehabilitiation of the Warehouses, GICO, 2002
     l Albania Maritime Legislation, Christiaan Van Krimpen, 2004




                                                - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Contribution

                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               ALBANIA (I.D.A. CREDIT No. 3068-ALB)
                                        DURRES PORT PROJECT
                   Prepared by the IDA Financed Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
                                             Durres Port Project
                           Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications

1.       ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND PROJECT DESIGN AT
INCEPTION

1.1      Objectives
The project was designed to overcome critical infrastructure bottlenecks that effect the economic
development of Albania. The Port of Durres in the beginning of 1999 handled 90% of the country's
international maritime traffic, employed 1520 people, handled 1.168 million tons of cargo, and had a
productivity index of 770, which was well below the international norms for general cargo ports of 3-5,000
tons per person. The Port Management answered directly to the Department of Transport and Public
Works. All management and planning decisions had to be cleared at the central ministerial level.
Consequently, the PDA could not function as a commercial enterprise and respond quickly to the needs of
the free market environment.

The overall objective of the project was to improve the efficiency and effective capacity of the Port of
Durres by:
Ø        Increasing its commercial orientation by establishing and autonomous port authority,
Ø        Privatizing port operations,
Ø        Improving Customs procedures and creating the port as a single Customs fiscal zone,
Ø        Improving operations and safety, and
Ø        Rehabilitating the port infrastructure to accommodate anticipated traffic demand.

1.2      Revised Objectives
Because of the adoption of a new International Ship and Port Security Code (ISPS) by the International
Maritime Organization in 2002 an additional objective was added:
Ø        To take the necessary steps to bring the PDA into compliance with the ISPS codes.

1.3      Original Components
The original components of the project comprised the following:

(a)      Port Civil Works
         These included the main rehabilitation and strengthening works that were needed to enable the
PDA to cope with expected traffic in terms of volume and safety standards. They include the following:
(i)      Rebuilding the windscreen and repairs to the main breakwater,
(ii)     Full repairs to Quays 1 & 6,
(iii)    Rebuilding or recasting the coping beam face of quays 2, to 4, 7 and 8,
(iv)     Replacing tie rods in the east quay,
(v)      New fenders,
(vi)     Surfacing and drainage behind a strip of quays 4, 5, and 6, and between quay 2 and the PDA office
(vii)    Resurfacing the road from Quay 8 to the new port road and surfacing new access roads to the



                                                     - 25 -

container yard and east quay.
Total projected costs: US$8.1 million.

(b)      Navigational Aids
Replacement of buoys and lights for navigation. - US$.2 million

(c)      Port Lighting
Installation of a new lighting network in the port. - US$.5 million

(d)      Warehouses and Offices
Rehabilitate up to 3 warehouses and rebuild the Harbor Master's Office. - US$1.5 million

(e)      Modernization of Cranes
Rehabilitate 7 cranes and purchase 5 new ones. - US$5.9 million

(f)      Anti-Pollution Actions
Provide oil pollution equipment, remove bitumen tanks, and relocate iron or pile. - US$.4 million

(g)      Customs Modernization
Develop the physical improvements that are needed to extend the fiscal zone to the whole of the port. -
US$.4million

(h)      Miscellaneous Equipment
Finance office equipment and other working materials for the PDA, HMO, Institute of Transport Studies
and the PMU in the MPWT. - US$.4 million

(i)      Studies
Carry out the following studies:

(i)      Secondary Ports Study,
(ii)     Urban Transport Improvements Study for Tirana,
(iii)    Environmental Assessment Study
         US$1.0 million

(j)      Technical Assistance
         Provide technical assistance to the PDA in privatization, project supervision, training and overall
project coordination.
         US$1.0 million

(k)      Training
Provide adequate training to port staff and private operators and create Port Training Center.
US$.4 million

1.4      Revised Components
There were a number of revisions made to the component schedule as the project progressed which were the
result of problems with the original costs estimates for civil works, unforeseen events, the changing needs
of port operations, and policy and legislation changes at the Port and Ministerial Level. The most
significant problem was associated with the initial cost estimates for civil works, which were made prior to
the development of detailed design and specifications. The original estimate, which was incorporated in the


                                                      - 26 -

credit agreement, was for $8.1 million for the proposed civil works. The estimate after the detailed design
was completed was US$19 million. Consequently, a number of civil works projects were scaled back or not
carried out for lack of sufficient funds. Also, the project entered the tendering without first having the soil
investigation being carried out. This was left then to the contractor and several modifications were made to
the original design, which increased the costs such as longer piles, installation of a 500-m long sheet pile
etc. The design was as a result modified.

With regards to unforeseen events, the Kosovo crisis necessitated the stationing of the Italian Navy and
other NATO forces in the port. The former remained on Quay 1 throughout the duration of the project and
only recently vacated the site. Consequently, the project was unable to carry out the reconstruction of that
quay. In addition, it became clear early on in the project that the former Master Plan (1995) did not address
a number of critical issues affecting the development of the port including land use, operations, and
changing markets. As a result, the project was compelled to finance the development of a Land Use plan, of
which a short term and long term development option were chosen by the government as the port's master
plan. This was subsequently incorporated into by-law. Based on this study, we revised its development
policy, which in turn impacted on the scope and direction of the project.

The following specific changes were made in the scope of the project:

(a)      Civil Works
(i)      Quay 5 was reconstructed rather than Quay 1 because of the occupation of the latter by the Italian
Navy.
(ii)     The repair works on Quays 2-4, 7 & 8 were not carried out for lack of sufficient funds.
(iii)    The surfacing and drainage project behind quays 2, 4,5 and 6 was not carried out for lack of
sufficient funds. This project was, however, incorporated into an EIB loan and is currently underway.
(iv)     The Navigation Aids project was not completed under the project because the Italian Navy
installed them.
(v)      The disposal of the iron ore pile was carried out by the port itself and not included in the project.
(vi)     Only warehouse 4/5 was rehabilitated. Warehouses 2, 3, and other dilapidated building behind
quay 2, the rail trestle behind Quays 6-8, structures and associated junk behind the shipyard were
demolished and several areas developed as open storage facilities as part of the revised project.

(b)      Modernization of Cranes
Because of technical difficulties and lack of sufficient funds, none of the old cranes were rehabilitated nor
were any of the spare parts purchased. Two new 10 ton rail mounted cranes were purchased and they were
installed on the newly reconstructed Quay 5.

(c)      Studies and Technical Assistance
Because of a variety of operational and management problems uncovered during the course of the project
and changing strategies for achieving the projects goals, a variety of additional studies and technical
assistance programs were added to the original component list. These are listed as follows:
(i)      Land Use Plan
(ii)     Evaluation and Design of Quays 10 & 11
(iii)    Redimensionning of the Environmental Study

In addition, the following technical assistance projects were added:
(i)      Fiscal Zone Program
(ii)     Designs for warehouse, fencing, access road, compaction of storage area and minor works
(iii)    Supervision of access road, harbormaster, storage area construction, and other minor works


                                                     - 27 -

(iv)     TA on Accounting and Financial Management of PDA
(v)      Topographic Survey of PDA
(vi)     TA for Privatization Plan, Port Authority Law and documents for the concessioning of grain silos,
privatization of mechanical sector and stevedores
(vii)    Design of apartments for squatter families to be removed from the port
(viii)   Auditing of PDA/PIU
(ix)     Preparation of 5 Year Business Plan for the PDA
(x)      TA on preparation of Port and Maritime Legislation

These new projects will be reviewed in detail below.

2.       ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

2.1 Output/Achievement of Objectives
In general most of the objectives of the project have been met particularly with respect to the civil works
and the reorganization of the port as a commercial enterprise. However, there are a number of areas where
the objectives have only been partially met. First, of particular concern is the continued low cargo handling
productivity on the quays and reluctance of the stevedores and labor force to change to more modern
operating systems. Secondly, despite continuing efforts by the project port consultants and other involved
agencies, the port has not implemented a fully satisfactory security system to date that will allow it to be
developed as an effective customs zone. It has not come into compliance with the new IMO ISPS codes
which took effect in July 2004 and has be blacklisted by the US Coast Guard and the same is pending with
the EU.

2.2 Output by Component
2.2.1 Civil Works
As indicated above, because of the cost estimates of the projects were made before the engineering and
design was completed the actual costs came out to be more that twice the estimated costs. Consequently, a
number of civil works projects had to be eliminated from the scope of work. These included the repairs to
quays 2, 4, 7 & 8, new fenders for these quays, the surfacing and drainage project, and the resurfacing of
the road from Quay 8 to the new port road. Quay 1, for reasons stated above, was not reconstructed as
planned. The projects that were completed are as follows.

1. Rehabilitation of Quays 6 & 5 and Breakwater
Contractor Name          MA AL-Kharafi
Problems encountered during construction.           This contract has been considered as one of the most
difficult to manage. There were many problems faced in the course of the construction. First, the tender
documents were prepared without soil investigation having been first carried out. This caused the PIU to
include this item in the tender documents for construction works. There were many disputes with the
contractor after presenting results of soil investigations, which if accepted would have added to more than
2.5 Mln. USD to the contract. In addition, due to these results the design had to be modified and this
required extra time, costs and energy and not all the items of this component could be implemented.
Secondly, since there were ambiguities in the contract documents between them and the drawings as well as
occasionally in the specifications, there was a continuous fight with the contractor and at times with the
supervising FIDIC Engineer.
Anyhow, due to a careful management of this contract and being continuously assisted by the Procurement
Adviser, the overall budget did not exceed the original contract by more than 15%.
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work. The Contractor was difficult to deal with and produced many
disputes during the course of the work. This propensity is specifically demonstrated in the pile of letters


                                                     - 28 -

(including more than 15 claims) that he sent to the PIU for many problems, which sometimes were
considered as right and some time as a means from him to justify time lost. The basic cause of these
disputes, again, was the lack of soil investigations, design and its modifications and reluctance of the RE to
take over his responsibilities.
The contractor performed the construction work itself reasonably well and the fact is that more than 2.5
years after the completion of construction there has been no problems with the work he carried out.
The Supervisor and the Port of Durres Authority staff have considered the Quality of the work as
acceptable.

2. Removal of Bitumen Tanks
Contractor Name          NARR Shpk
Problems encountered during construction This was a lump sum contract and was a very small amount.
It took some 3 months longer than foreseen due mainly to the involvement of several institutions. The
owner of the tanks and bitumen inside them put some strong conditions on their removal, by first saying
they do not want them to be removed. However, after several meetings the problems were solved. Also, due
to the long time that the bitumen had been present there the contractor had to take some specific
environmental measures to complete the work.
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work The work carried out was considered reasonably well done and
today after 5 years the area is being used for the on-land facilities for the ferry terminal without any
problems.
The Port of Durres Authority has considered the Quality of the work as acceptable.

3. Rehabilitation of Harbor Master Building
Contractor Name          SIAC SH.p.k
Problems encountered during construction          Since the contract had a small value it was easily managed
and there were no major problems with it. There were some small ones dealing specially with some
additional requirements of the HMO for some minor modifications to the contract.
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work The work carried out was considered reasonably well done and even
today after 4 years the building and outside infrastructure have not faced any problems.
The Supervisor, the Port of Durres Authority, and Harbormaster staff, has
considered the Quality of the work as acceptable.

4. Rehabilitation of Warehouse 4/5
Contractor Name      EDICOM SH.p.k
Problems encountered during construction Since the building was relatively old, there was a need during
the course of the work to, after a careful examination of the contractor and designer, intervene in its top
structure. This was handled carefully and in time. There were also some minor modifications to the original
design due to the need to change the slope of the dockside and associated facilities.
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work          The work was considered reasonably well done. However,
nowadays, when it rains heavily, some water penetrates from the top.PDA staff has considered the quality
as acceptable.




                                                     - 29 -

5. External Boundary Fence
Contractor Name          KARL GEGA CONSTRUCTION
Problems encountered during construction Some additional work carried out as requested by PDA added
more length to the perimeter security wall in the East quay area. It was comprised in some parts of concrete
blocks and in some parts concrete beam and steel fencing. Also some extra small works were taken to
strengthen the foundation in some parts and to open an access for the contractor to work
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work The work went well and the security in this area has increased.
PDA staff has considered the quality as acceptable. However, the end part of the wall (about 3m in length)
where it enters into water has recently received some cracks due to the slippage of some concrete blocks
supporting the wall.

6. Minor Works for Demolition and Cleaning
Contractor Name       KIRCHBERGER
Problems encountered during construction There were no major problems with this project. Some parts
of concrete blocks (and bunkers) were found to be quite hard and some polluted goods were discovered.
However, these problems were managed in time.
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work       The work went well and since then the area has been used for
indirect discharge.
The PDA staff has considered the quality as acceptable.

7. Construction of the Access Road to the East Quay
Contractor Name          TIR DKK&NARR Shpk
Problems encountered during construction There were some problems with the relocation of an illegal
house, of some existing operating electrical cables, improvement of the basement, missing guardrails etc.
These problems were handled carefully but some time was taken to resolve and implement them.
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work        The work has been considered of high quality and has greatly
improved traffic movement in this area.
The Supervisor and PDA staff has considered the quality as acceptable.

8. Compaction and Drainage of the Eastern Area
Contractor Name        SALILLARI
Problems encountered during construction       The main problem with this contract was the high complex
geological structure in the majority of the storage area. It was mostly considered as lagoon deposits, with
the water being present in every stage. Therefore some additional stone layers were added. Regardless, the
contract was completed in time, but the amount was increased (anyhow in total less than 15%).
Evaluation of the Contractor's Work      The work has been considered of high quality and has turned the
whole area into an operational open storage area for large pieces of cargo and vehicles.
Supervisor and PDA staff has considered the quality as acceptable.

2.2.2 STUDIES
Name - Port of Durres Land Use Plan, March 2000
Purpose and Objective ­To Review the port operational methods and land use and develop
recommendations as to the land use allocation te serve both the present and future port requirements.
Company/Person - Louis Berger Inc.
Summary of Recommendations ­ The study did not carried out a long term market research and traffic
forecast but it followed on the data of the previous studies. Anyhow, it assessed mostly operational issues
by evaluating the existing operations, identifying physical bottlenecks and those related to organization of
activities, defined on how the best could the land be used and proposed several scenarios of port


                                                   - 30 -

development in the short-medium and long term (till 2015). The study recommended three-phase operations
development and land use plan. In the first stage (4 years) it addressed the existing congestion and
operations problems. In the second stage it focused on proposing options for the expansion of several port
related activities and removal of some others, while in the third stage recommendations were made to create
additional land.
To what extend have recommendations been implemented ­ Recommendations of this study have been
almost strictly followed since it was considered as the basic framework for the port development. Most of
the recommendations of the first stage such as demolition works, transit shed, start up container terminal,
dredging, paving etc. are either fully completed or on the way with some minor elements still not being
implemented such as development of grain terminal, the continuous presence of the oil tanks etc. As such,
this study can be considered as the most implemented one, amongst several studies carried out for the Port
of Durres since 1994. Anyhow, the study was neither dealing with other components of the port
development such as nautical, dredging, quays development, relocation of certain activities etc. nor covered
it the general economic evaluation of the different scenarios for improvements proposed in an integrated
approach and staged in timeframe. Therefore, now, after 5 years, a Port of Durres Mater Plan is on the
way to start.
Rating of Consultant/Company in performing work ­ As above mentioned the work of the consultant was
considered quite satisfactory and the study was approved by GoA and recognized by several donors.

Name - Technical Cooperation in Privatizing Port Operations-Restructuring Port Management and
Strengthening the Maritime Directorate, 1998-2004
Purpose and Objective ­ To set up private cargo-handling companies and other private enterprises for port
and port related activities; to prepare as set of port rules and regulations and a Port Authority Law,
commercialize the Port Maintenance and stevedores.
Company/Person - HPC
Summary of Recommendations ­ Several recommendations were given the most of them concentrated in
the creation of a more commercially oriented port, with some more autonomy and less influence from the
several involved ministries. These were associated with a strategy prepared after holding appropriate
workshop to define the right way on how to privatize and what should be privatized first associated with
the preparation of several concessioning, tendering and contracting documents. Also, a reorganization of
PDA was recommended and some rules and regulations were prepared.
To what extend have recommendations been implemented ­ Most of the recommendations of the
consultant have either been implemented such as new law, port rules and regulations, reorganization of
PDA, organizational schemes for the Maritime Directory and Harbormaster Office etc, with some others
being already implemented such as new tariffs, further privatization etc.
Rating of Consultant/Company in performing work- The first contract with the consultant did not turn out
to be a good performance although PIU and World Bank stayed on the head with making several comments
to several intensive reports from the consultants. The second one was much better and the fact is that most
of the recommendations are being implemented.

Name - Environmental Assessment &Dredging Study for the Port of Durres 2002
Purpose and Objective ­ To review the environmental situation in the Port of Durres, identify existing and
potential risks for the environment coming from present or future activities, and propose prevention or
mitigation measures commensurate with the context. Also preparation of a safety assessment for the oil
related activities, handling all sorts of fuel etc. as well as of design and documents for the emergency
dredging.
Company/Person ­ Wilbur Smith Associates, Inc.
Summary of Recommendations ­ The study came up with recommendations to carry out emergency
dredging, to improve the situation of some of the existing oil tanks and better to relocate the, to set up


                                                     - 31 -

proper institutional framework such as establishment of the Environmental Department. It further prepared
an oil spill contingency plan for the port as well as a ship waste management plan and several reports such
as Marine Survey Report, Environmental Report, Oil Oil/Fuel Inspection and Oil Tank Risk Assessment.
To what extend have recommendations been implemented ­ Most of the recommendations have been
already followed. The Environment Unit has been established in the port and the oil spill contingency plan
approved. The oil spill equipment has come from Canada and appropriate training being received. The
emergency dredging is to be completed within 3 coming months. Some limited measures have been taking
to increase safety in the existing oil tanks and pipelines; anyhow there is no clear deadline when they will be
relocated. Nothing has been done as to implement the recommendation given in the ship waste management
report. Several legislative actions needs to be taken and proper related regulations need to be prepared.
Rating of Consultant/Company in performing work ­ Satisfactory.

Name - Several Reports on Durres Custom's Zone Assistance Program, 2000-2004
Purpose and Objective ­To create a secure customs zone and a modern, integarted port operations system
within a 2 year time frame, through improvement of physical facilities, introduction of cargo tracking
system, improvement of institutional aspects specially those related to port security.
Company/Person ­ Ray Lawler Inc.
Summary of Recommendations - Several recommendations have been given, most of them related to the
security of the port. Some of them account for physical improvements such as perimeter security fencing,
removal of families, improvement of lighting, removal of wrecked vessels, development of an effective
security system and some others dealing with institutional aspect such as approval of a port security law,
regulations, appropriate port security structure, changing of the operational methods, coordination with
customs etc.
To what extend have recommendations been implemented - Following these recommendations the port
perimeter fencing and lighting has been completed, one transit shed together with its operational plan, too,
implementation of the surveillance camera system is on-going, a new port security law has been approved
and the port security force is coming soon, new port tariffs are being prepared and approved and ISPS code
requirements almost fulfilled.
Rating of Consultant/Company in performing work ­ Due to the consultants being involved in his missions
in several operations problems of the port, sometimes, he was repeating himself in preparing his reports.
This goes partly to the PDA, who rarely gave any comments or took actions on his day to day
recommendations. Anyhow, the work can be considered as satisfactory and it is a good experience of
showing how much such a consultant is needed in day to day TA to the management of port operations.

Name - Detailed Design for the Eastern Quays and Back-up Area
Purpose and Objective ­ To assess the situation of two very important quays 10&11 and come up with
recommendations on whether to upgrade them or fully reconstruct. To prepare a full detailed design and
tender documents for the selected options.
Company/Person - Technital
Summary of Recommendations ­ The most important recommendation has been the full reconstruction of
the quays which turned to be out less costly than to rehabilitate them.
To what extend have recommendations been implemented ­ PDA has accepted it and is looking for
potential donors to implement its full reconstruction.
Rating of Consultant/Company in performing work ­ Satisfactory.

Name - Tirana Urban Traffic Management Study
Purpose and Objective ­ To develop a proposal for short-to-medium term actions in traffic and transport
and associated data bank as well as prepare a strategic orientation to build a nucleus group in the local
government to implement the most urgent actions. To prepare, also, a multi-component transport


                                                      - 32 -

investment project to be appraised by potential donors.
Company/Person ­ Tecnic/Transurb
Summary of Recommendations ­ After preparing the Diagnostic report, the study came up with the
preparation of an urban transport strategy for Tirana, a 5 year action program and other sub-proposals
related to traffic signal programs, central area traffic scheme, traffic management schemes for conflict
points, parking management, signing programs, road rehabilitation program, legal, policy and institutional
reforms such as creation of municipal police, restructuring of urban transport sector etc.
To what extend have recommendations been implemented ­ All recommendations have been taken by the
Tirana Municipality and under personal attention of the Mayer have been either implemented (such as
Municipal Police, Traffic Management Unit etc.) or are under implementation. Also, as recommended by
the project, several road projects have bee already financed or are on the way to be financed for the road
and transport sector of Tirana.
Rating of Consultant/Company in performing work - Satisfactory.

Name - Overall Training and Specific Training of the Financial and Accounting Department
Purpose and Objective ­ Establishment of the training center, with a management team, able to identify
and respond to the training needs of the port of Durres. Training of the port community in key areas of port
development. Design and implement an Accounting and Financial Management System and a management
accounting information system with associated training for PDA staff.
Company/Person ­ Overall training by Rotterdam Maritime Group/ Specific raining by Deloittee&Touche
Summary of Recommendations ­ Several recommendations were given on the establishment of the training
center, on how and who should run it. Also several training in several disciplines such as marketing,
containers, ferry terminal, environment, operation, organisation, security etc. were carried out either in
Albania or in the Port of Durres. Specific software was installed in the PDA for the accounting system
associated with special training.
To what extend have recommendations been implemented ­ Anyhow, it is difficult to measure the
performance of this component. The fact is that although the training center is physically established it is
run sporadically by PDA staff. Also, there has been seen an attitude, generally, of the PDA staff being
trained in Albania or abroad but little motivated to implement things learnt in their day-to day job.
Anyhow, the accounting system is running perfectly and this is serving as a good example for other
departments to shift from the paper system.
Rating of Consultant/Company in performing work ­ RMG was seen quite apathetic at the beginning, with
some lectures just coming and going. This made the PIU (after consultation with the Bank) to change the
strategy of rather then consultants coming here send port people see closer modern ports development. It is
a hope that this was a right decision, but in the second half of the contract duration the performance of the
consultant was even better.

2.2.3 Changes in Operational Capacity and Port Performance
One of the principal objectives of the civil works and other projects was to improve port performance with
respect to productivity on the Quays, growth in throughput, and increased revenues. The improvement of
productivity on the quays is the key for achieving growth in throughput and revenues. Berth productivity is
affected by a number of factors including
-       Vessel dwell times
-       Berth Utilization Rate
-       Throughput Indicators
-       Discharge and take away rates
These are examined here.




                                                    - 33 -

(a)     Dwell Times, Berth Utilization and Throughput
Vessel dwell times, berth utilization rates, and throughput measures have been recorded for each quarter
since the start of the project. These trends are summarized in Table 1. With regard to dwell times there has
been a significant decrease in the congestion factor (ratio: ships waiting for berth / time at berth). This
decrease is related to two positive trends:
1.      Working time at the berth has increased from an average of 18 hrs to 37 hours, and
2.      A corollary increase in the average size of the cargo payload (71%) that is discharged or loaded
by each vessel.

Basically the average size of the vessel being handled by the port has increased over the project period,
which has been one of its operational improvement objectives. In addition, berth utilization rates (ratio:
time ships worked at berth /time ships at berth) have increased from .51 to .67. Essentially the vessels are
experiencing fewer delays due to outages, strikes, customs etc.
Finally the total time that the vessel sits on the quay without working has decreased from 52% in first
quarter of 1999 to 28% in the 3rd quarter of 2004.

The average waiting time on the roads is decreased from 0.89 in 2000 to 0.5 in 2004.

However, there are several negatives that continue to bedevil the port. The berth occupancy rate (ratio: time
berth occupied / time available) that was .57 in 1999 has been over 100% for each of the last 5 years
peaking at 1.42 in 2001. It is currently around 1.05. This measure indicates that there is a significant
amount of double and triple berthing, which is very unsafe and significantly slows down discharging
operations. One of the main reasons for it has been the lack of quay space (and back up area) due to some
of them been in the reconstruction stage or occupied by some other non-port users.

(b)     Discharge and Take Away Rates
The key indicator of productivity in the port is the rate of cargo discharge per working vessel per 24 hour
day. This rate will vary depending on the type of cargo handled and equipment used. Unfortunately, the
only information that is available regarding discharge rates at the beginning of the project was in the Port
of Durres, Albania Land Use Plan, March 2000. Tables IV, and V of that study provided various
measures of the average discharge rate of general cargo and bulk cargos for the port as a whole and for
each of the main berths then in operation for a working vessel per 24 hour day. For this analysis general
cargo discharge rates are compared to the same indicators calculated for the 3rd quarter 2004 and are
summarized in Table 2.

       Table 2 Comparison of Discharge Rates by Berth, 1st Quater1999 Versus 3rd Quarter 2004

    Berth                                     Discharge Rate 1999                Discharge Rate 2004
                                                  Tons Per Hour                     Tons Per hour
   Berth 2                                             32                                27
   Berth 4                                             35                                30
   Berth 5                                             37                                44
   Berth 6                                             37                                44
   Berth 7                                             19                                55
   Berth 8                                             22                                67

Given these basic numbers, it is clear that the significant funds that have been invested in civil works,


                                                    - 34 -

studies, and consulting services, there has been some improvement of discharge rates on the quays.
Productivity has almost remained the same on Berth 2 despite the completion of a transit warehouse by the
project and on Berth 4. Operations on Berths 5 and 6, which were reconstructed and supplied with new 10
ton cranes by the project have registered some modest gains. The highly significant gains that were made
were on Berths 7 and 8 whose operations were greatly hindered by the existence of a high railroad trestle
just behind the quay in 1999. This trestle was removed by the project and operation flow on the quay has
improved.

Appendix A Tables 1-3 provide a more detailed examination of berth performance and discharge rates by
berth (quay) for both general and bulk cargos based on 3rd quarter 2004 statistics. They include
calculations of average discharge rates by berth and cargo handling classification for a 24-hour day and for
two shifts per day. All of these performance indicators are well below international productivity standards.
For example the port should be getting between 200 and 250 tons/hr/vessel handling palletized cargo. The
port wide average is 75 tons/hr/vessel. Many modern, palletized operations get 4-500 ton/hr/vessel.

There are some reasons for the lack of significant progress in productivity on the quays.
1.      The operators have refused to abandon direct discharge into trucks for the more efficient indirect
discharges methods using forklifts as the take away vehicle as used in most ports.
2.      Refusal by the operators to employ the new transit shed for discharge operations
3.      Continued reliance on using old, very slow, space eating shore side cranes instead of using ships
gear when available.
4.      A tariff structure that encouraged the use of these slow methods of operation.

As indicated above an operations plan for the transit warehouse and a revised tariff structure were
developed, based on modern port pricing practices which have been recently approved by the Supervisory
Board of PDA. The impacts of these measures will only be seen after the end of the project.

(c)     Cargo Throughput Performance
The overall cargo throughput has increased significantly since the beginning of the project. Total cargo
handled has increased from 1,557217 in 1999 to 2,950,000 tons in 2004. This is a significant growth of
almost 100% in 5 years. There are several reasons for it. The operational constraints in the back up areas
that have been removed by the project has allowed quays 6 through 8 to increase to some extent their cargo
handling capacity. Working hours on the quays and the average size of vessel loads have increased
significantly and delays due to outages, strikes, customs etc. have been significantly reduced. Finally, the
port has used up the excess capacity that it had in 1999 and is reaching its capacity limits given the existing
operating systems. It will need to change its operating system to increase it capacity significantly. Also, the
management of the port has been increasing its ability from year to year.

(d)     Future Development Requirements
In order for the port to continue its rapid growth in throughput we need to forcefully implement a number
of changes that were introduced in 2004.
1.      The new port tariff, which separates the port's income derived from the rental of space and
equipment from the labor services provided by the stevedore, has to be implemented. Demurrage charges
must be applied to all vessels regardless of flag once their contract time on the quay has expired.
2.      Berth 2b should be reserved for only general cargo vessels that carry unitized or palletized cargos
and will be using the transit shed for discharging the cargo. No discharging of bulk cargo should be
allowed. The transit warehouse it self needs to be leased to the stevedores to operate and be
designated as a Temporary Regime Customs warehouse to provide incentives for its use. A 3 day free time
policy needs to be strictly enforced.


                                                    - 35 -

3.       Once the paving and drainage project is completed we need to strongly push the development of
indirect methods of discharge on quays 2-A, 4, and 5-A using the open space behind the quays for loading
trucks using fork lifts. The only direct discharge operations that should be allowed should be       on 5
and 7 using the modern cranes and multiple picks (at least 4 units per cycle) of slung, bagged, or palletized
cargo. Only the trucks actually receiving the cargo should be on the quay. All others should be parked off
the quay.
4.       For container operations the new facility needs to be operated by an experienced container terminal
management company providing as a common carrier service to all agents, freight forwarders or carriers,
which can join efforts with any experienced local company in this field. It cannot be subdivided into small
independent operations, as is the case at present, since we consider it simply as not enough room in the port
to handle multiple container operations.
5.       Financial Part ­ Dividend, paid by the PDA to the Ministry of Economy should be reduced up to
65%, to allow port be more commercial oriented and competitive.

2.2.4    New Port Law/Legislation
The project initiated the development of a new port law that establishes the PDA as an independent port
authority that retains the revenues it generates and is responsible for its debts. The law establishes a
Supervisory Board that will be responsible for the activities of the port and is to be advised by an Advisory
Council comprised of appointees representing the various components of the port community. Currently,
the Statute of the Port Authority of Durres have been approved by the Council of Ministers. These define
the powers and authority of the PDA and firmly establish it as a Landlord port. Principally it has the right
to:
§        Issues licenses for the performance of port services,
§        Acquire and develop new land and water areas for the expansion of the port,
§        Develop it own port tariff and control vessels on the quays,
§        Lease or provide concessions for the operation of port terminals and facilities.

Some other laws and by-laws have been prepared with assistance of an individual consultant, following the
Port Authority Law. GoA should evaluate them and pass them as soon as possible, since their
implementation has a direct impact on further development of the port and maritime sector.

2.2.5    Customs Fiscal Zone
The implementation of the Customs Fiscal Zone has been a difficult, complex and often delayed
undertaking. To implement it, required the coordination and cooperation of three different Ministries and
their sub agencies. These include the Ministry of Transportation and Communications and the PDA, The
Ministry of Finance and Customs, and the Ministry of Public Order and the various police organizations
under their direction. Originally, the entire port was supposed to be developed as a single Customs Zone by
the year 2000. However, the total lack of acceptable security (specially dedicated to the presence of 145
illegal families) and the resistance of Customs to changing procedures made this target impossible to
achieve. The Project was modified to provide long term consulting services to the PIU and PDA as
regarding to this issue. The objectives were to improve port operations and bring about the changes that
were needed to designate the port as a Customs Zone.

Security was and to a certain degree remains one of the key problems. The police organizations that have
been assigned to carry out security in the port were not very effective. Perimeter security in the form of
fencing and gate controls were poorly developed or maintained and did not encompass the entire port,
particularly the East Quay area. There was some official efforts to improving security until the
International Maritime Organization published the new International Shipping and Port Security
regulations that were to be implemented by July 1, 2004.        Anyhow, the port was unable to come into


                                                     - 36 -

compliance with these codes and has consequently been black listed by the US Coast Guard.

In late 2003 a special security consultant was assigned to the port through the US Justice Department's
ICITAP project to develop a program for upgrading port security. Working with the Project's consultants
and our staff, together they carried out a preliminary security assessment. It became clear that the port
would need to develop its own well trained and properly led security force. A new Port Security Law was
drafted and approved in 2004. It established a new security force that has been funded in the 2005 PDA
budget. Two senior security officers have been hired and a detailed security assessment is under way. The
Project also has completed the construction of a permiter security wall to include most of the East Quay
area. Additional fencing is needed to extend the wall to the petroleum discharge berth on the east
breakwater.

In a corresponding effort, the Government has greatly improved its Police security program to a point
where it is now possible to begin implementing the Customs Zone Program. Customs has also modernized
its cargo clearance operations. It has invested over 3 million dollars in the development of a computerized
cargo clearance system (ASCYUDA) that has recently become operational in the port. In addition, the PDA
and Customs have just reached an agreement in which the Port as a whole has been declared a "Customs
Zone".

3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

There are seven major factors that have and somehow may continue affect the implementation and out
come of the project (Port of Durres). These are:
Ø        The Kosovo Situation and the Presents of NATO forces in the Port
Ø        The Resistance of Customs to Changing Procedures
Ø        Difficulty in Implementing ISPS Certified Security
Ø        Resistance of Stevedores and Freight Forwarders to Adopting Modern Operating Methods.
Ø        Frequent changes of the decision making level from the Ministerial level up to port directors.
Ø        Lack of a proper port Master Plan to take into account all the changes of the traffic pattern of the
post-war in the Balkan area as well as overall economic development scheme of the port etc.
Ø        Unfavorable exchange rate between SDR and USD.

3.1 Kosovo Situation
The Kosovo Crisis has caused NATO to station some forces in the port and to take over a number of areas
for their exclusive use that have been and continue to be impediments to the completion of the project and
its objectives. The Italian Navy occupied a compound on Quay 1 throughout the course of the project that
forced it to focus on the reconstruction of Quay 5 instead of Quay 1. NATO also, at the beginning of the
project, occupied the back up area to Quay's 6 and 7, which greatly hindered operations there, and
construction of Quay 6.

The project team initiated negotiations with NATO that resulted in their moving to the old bulk terminal on
the East Quay. Recently NATO deactivated this compound but continues to retain it as a secured site
preventing it from being used by the port. With the commencement of construction on the container
terminal it is now necessary to move the bulk operations from Quay 7 to the East Quay. The project team
has initiated a new round of negotiations with NATO in which the port has offered to create a contingency
area in the North East corner of the port and to provide the necessary improvements that NATO would
need if there were an additional crisis in the region. This proposal is under review by NATO and further
meeting will be held in February 2005. It is import that the project follows up on this initiative and achieves
an agreement that opens up the NATO compound for use by the port.


                                                    - 37 -

3.2 Customs Procedures
It has taken 4 years for the Customs Assistance Mission to Albania (CAMA) to get them to modernize
Customs procedures and implement a computerized cargo clearance system (ASCYUDA) in the port. They
have only recently begun implementing a risk assessment system and stopped carrying out 100% physical
inspections of goods. This resistance has been one of the major factors to caused the postponement in
declaring the port as a Customs Fiscal Zone for 4 years. However, with these changes Customs has
recently agreed to designate the port as a "Customs Zone" which allows different cargo handling entities to
establish Customs procedures in designated areas in the port. This designation fulfills the requirements for
Customs Zone designation. Anyhow, its implementation will require further actions, which are defined in
the MoU, signed between GCD and PDA on 31 December 2004.

3.3 Security
Security is a continuing problem at the port. Although, the US Justice Department has funded a security
improvement project in the port under the ICITAP program, security has only improved at the main gates.
However, internal security is still very lax. A new port security law has been approved that will fund a port
security staff of 80 or more. Two senior officers have been recently hired, trained abroad and are working
with the ICITAP consultant to complete a IMO standard security assessment which was completed by the
10 December 2004. This assessment will form the foundation for developing a security plan and an
implementation program. The new port security still must be organized and trained. In addition, perimeter
fencing must be completed up to the petroleum discharge quay and all breaches in the wall need to be
repaired.

The port has not come into compliance with ISPS codes and has been black listed by the US Coast Guard
and may soon face the same designation in the EU.

3.4 Operational Changes
The stevedores and freight forwarders have continued to persist in the practice of discharging directly into
trucks and other slow cargo handling practices. They were not able to perceive the income generating
advantages of modern cargo handling methods. Part of the problem is associated with the structure of the
stevedores themselves and stevedore's contract with the port that allocated to them a fixed percentage of all
applicable charges. Also, stop and go process of their privatization has not allowed stevedores to make big
investments in their business. Consequently, there has been little incentive for them to improve their
operating efficiency. Also the tariff structure allowed Albanian flagged vessels to sit on the quay at
minimum cost and be discharged at 50% of the applicable rate. Despite the fact that 45% of all general
cargo is palletized and a good portion of the remainder is unitized in slings, super sacks, and tots, very little
use has been made of the new transit warehouse.

To encourage change a new port tariff is being recently implemented that separates the charges for cargo
handling services (stevedoring) and port charges. This new stevedore tariff includes many incentives to the
freight forwarders and consignees for demanding more modern methods of operation and speedier
discharge. In addition contract will establish minimum performance criteria for the stevedores and require
them to operate through the transit warehouse on Quay 2 b.

The problem is that even with these to be forced changes, the stevedores and freight forwarders themselves
do not see the potential economic advantages for them. They need to be educated not only in the handling
system itself but also in the economics on which the system is based. The objectives of the project will not
be met unless the stevedores and freight forwarders buy into the system and implement it. And this can only
be achieved through training and pressure from the port.


                                                    - 38 -

3.5 Frequent Changes of the Staff
There were several changes to different levels starting from the Ministers to the port directors. As an
example, in the course of the project there were five Ministers, 5 Vc. Ministers (who have been also
Chairman of the Supervisory Board) and three port directors. Although PIU has been permanently feeding
them with updated information, it took quite some time for them to at least get acquainted with the project.

3.6 Lack of a Proper Port Master Plan
If a proper Master Plan would have been in place before or in the time of project appraisal to take into
account all the changes of the traffic pattern of the post-war in the Balkan area as well as overall economic
development scheme and economic evaluation of the different scenarios for improvements of the port and
other related issues related to nautical, dredging, quays development, relocation of certain activities etc.
many revisions would not have been carried out, which required time, energy, and decision making.
Anyhow, introduction of the Land Use Study in 2000, associated with other studies and TA made the
project not to be affected noticeably.

3.7 Unfavorable Exchange Rate Between SDR and USD
In the course of the project there has been unfavorable exchange rate between SDR and USD, which
resulted in an almost 3% reduction of the IDA financing. Although towards the end of the project the USD
gained the reversion of losses was not considerable. However, the implementation of the project is not
considered to have been noticeably affected by this exchange rate since almost all of the project components
have been completed, with the exception of the spare parts.

4.       SUSTAINABILITY

A number of projects and programs have been put into place by The Ministry of Transport and the PDA
that are designed to sustain and continue the development of the infrastructure, facilities, and programs that
have been started by the project. Furthermore the GoA is conscious and strongly committed to improving
the port development as the main port of the country. IDA is ready to finance as part of a large road project
some further TA for the PDA, while some commitment has been taken from EBRD/EIB to finance Ferry
Terminal, while EC is going soon to finance the revision of the port Master Plan.

4.1 Infrastructure and Civil Works
Under a European Investment Bank Loan, a number of projects planned, as part of the Project will be
implemented. These include the construction of a container terminal behind Quays 6 and 7 and the
replacement of drainage and pavement behind Quays 2, 4, and 5. This project is under way and is should
be completed by the end of 2005. Also included within the loan was the purchase of a new 100 ton mobile
tower crane that has arrived and is currently in operation.

4.2 Transit Warehouse
The project completed the renovation of the transit warehouse 4/5 and once the paving and drainage project
is completed it will be operational. It is to be leased to the two stevedoring companies currently operating in
the port. They have begun formal procedures for having the warehouse designated as Temporary Regime
warehouse to facilitate the transfer of cargo. It is intended to designate Berth 2-B for the discharge of
pallets and other unitized general cargo directly into the warehouse using forklifts. No trucks will be
allowed on the quay in this area.

4.3 East Quay
The project carried out an engineering evaluation and design for the reconstruction of the East Quay and


                                                      - 39 -

associated facilities. At the moment efforts are underway to secure funding for the project.

4.4 Dredging
The Project funded the development of a dredging plan for the harbor and main channel. The PDA has
received funds from the EIB loan to carry out an emergency dredging project to take the depth of the harbor
down to 10m. This project is currently underway and is should be completed in the next 3 months.

4.5 Port Laws and Regulations
There are a number of legal acts regarding the port and maritime regulatory affairs that are being addressed
to implement the objectives of the project. GoA is currently reviewing these, after being drafted by an
expatriate individual consultant.

4.6 Privatization of Port Services
Most of the port services have been privatized. The new contract with the stevedores will establish them as
truly independent organizations with their own port tariff.         The tender for the privatization of the
mechanical sector is ready to start. The PDA will handle the process after the termination of the project.

4.7 Operational Changes
The introduction of the Cargo Tracking system will cause the operation of the transit warehouse by the
stevedores to changing and modernizing the system for discharging unitized cargo.

4.8 Security
With the new port security law, the continued assistance from ICITAP, and the pressure from the IMO and
EU, it is expected that the port will implement appropriate security procedures to become ISPS certified.
The PDA has included a new item in the 2005 budget that will adequately finance a fully staffed security
department that will receive specialized training in port security.

4.9 Customs Zone
An initial agreement has been reached between the PDA and to have the Port designated as a Customs
Zone.

4.10 Business Plan
 A business Plan has been finalized for the 5 coming years for the Port of Durres. This will serve as guide
for the coming 5 years for the PDA, but will also help donors and GoA to take appropriate measures to
increase the competitiveness of the port.

5.       LESSONS LEARNED

5.1 Project Cost Estimates
As indicated above in the biggest problem faced by the Project was the fact that the initial cost estimates
for civil works were developed and incorporated into the contract before detailed designs and specifications
were developed. The original estimate in the contract agreement turned out to be almost $11 under the
actual cost of the civil projects that were specified in the terms of the contract. Consequently, a number of
civil projects were scaled back or not carried out. To insure that specified civil project are completed, the
World Bank should finance a detailed design prior to the finalization of the credit agreement or include a
contingency for modifying the agreement after the detailed designed is completed.

5.2 Project Coordination
The Port of Durres project involved the participation of 4 Ministries and their sub departments, multiple


                                                     - 40 -

projects financed and managed by multiple donors, and conflicting interest and points of view within the
port community and sometimes amongst several TA-s consultants on principal issues for the port
development. It is recommended that each new project should include a coordinating committee comprised
of professional representatives from each ministry and sub-agency who would be impacted by the projects.
This committee must meet at least once a month to review progress and to deal with any conflicts that may
arise.

5.3 World Bank Internal Project Coordination
In the case of the Port of Durres, the World Bank has funded two projects under different Ministries that to
some degree would impact on each other. In one case in particularly, an agreement was reached between
the Ministries of Transportation and Agricultural with consultation with the PDA that would have torn
down structures built by this project and taken one whole berth out of operation. It was only after the one
project's independent consultant intervened that the project was modified. In these cases where the Bank is
funding multiple projects in the same jurisdiction, it should establish an internal coordinating committee to
avoid these types of conflicts.

5.4 Lack of proper understanding in the appraisal stage for the customs zone
Some components related to the creation of the fiscal zone and associated costs and strategies to implement
them were given in a quite comprehensive way. Different opinions amongst several TA-s on principal
issues related to these issues caused also some confusion, associated with the lack of coordination amongst
Albanian institutions. Anyhow, this was recovered in the course of project implementation.

Bank and Borrower Performance

The PIU is very appreciative of the hard work, help and advice given to PIU but also to PDA and GoA by
the Bank's staff during the implementation of the Project. The contribution and assistance given from all
the Team Leaders, throughout the project, but especially from Mr. Audige and Mr. Le Ber, as well as their
frequent missions have greatly impacted on the good performance of the project but what is more important
the fast development of the Port of Durres.




                                                    - 41 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 28506R

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALBANIA
                                                              x x x x x x     x x x x x x      x x x x x xx x x x x x
                                                             x                                                                   x x x x x xx x x x x x  x x x x x x     x x x x x x      x x x x x x     x x x x x x x x x x                            DURRËS PORT PROJECT
                                                            x
                                                           x
                                                          x                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING                              PROJECT COMPONENTS:
                                                        x                                                                                                                                                                                                          INFRASTRUCTURE:
                                                      x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RESURFACING AREAS
                                                     x                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROADS
                                                    x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WAREHOUSE REFURBISHING
                                                   x                                                                                                                                                                     x
                                                  x                                                                                                                                                                     x                                          RAILROADS                             NAVIGATION AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x
                                                 x                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                x                                                                                                                                                                    x                                             BUILDINGS                             BERTH RECONSTRUCTION
                                               x                                                                                                                                                                    x                                                                          QUAY 1      OR STRENGTHENING
                                              x                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                             x                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x
                                           x                                                                                                                                                                  x
                                          x                                                                                                                                                                  x                                       x x x x       PROJECT FENCING AND LIGHTING
                                         x                                                                                                                                                                  x
                                        x                           R O / R O                                                                                                                              x                                                       PROJECT REHABILITATION OF QUAYS 4-6
                                       x                             F E R RY                                                                                                                            x
                                      x                           T E R M I N A L                                                                                                                       x                                                          PROJECT PURCHASE, 2 NEW CRANES
                                                                                     F I S H I N G                                                                                                    x
                                     x                                               H A R B O R                                                                                                     x
                                    x                                                                                                                                                              x                                                               PROJECT REHABILITATION OF HMO BUILDING AND
                                   x                                                                                                                                                              x                                                                 CONVERSION OF WAREHOUSE
                                  x                                                                                                                                                              x
                                x                                                                                                                                                              x                                                                   PROJECT RECONSTRUCTION OF BREAKWATER AND WIND WALL
                               x                          8                                                                                                                                  x
                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                              x                          Y                                                                                                                               x                                                                         PROJECT REMOVAL OF ILLEGAL BUILDINGS IN PREPARATION
                             x                                                                                                                                                         x                                                                            OF DRAINAGE WORKS AND PAVING ACCESS ROAD
                            x                         QUA                                                                                                        x x                 x
                           x                                                                                        ARD                                                x x  x       x
                                                                                                                                                                               x
                          x                                                                                                                                                      x

                         x                                                                                      SHIPY
                        x                                                                                                                                                                                                              18°30'          19°00'             19°30'              20°00'             20°30'             21°00'

                      x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
                     x                                                                                                                                                                                                           CROATIA
                    x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)
                   x                                                                                             Y                                                                                                        42°30'                                                                                                        42°30'

                  x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bajram
                 x                                                                                             QUA
                                              7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Curri
                x                            Y
               x                                                                                           EAST
              x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Koplik                           Krume
             x                            QUA                                                                           Y
            x
           x
          x                                                                                                      PARTIALL                                                                                                                                                      Shkodër


         x                                                                                                                                                                                                                42°00'                                                           Pukë                  Kukës
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        42°00'
        x                                                                                                          COMPLETED
       x                                                                                                   WORKS
      x                                                                                                                               R
     x                            6                                                                                                  E                                                                                                                               Shëngjin       Lezhë
    x                            Y                                                                                                  T                                                                                                                                                       Rrëshen
   x                                                                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                    Peshkopi
  x
 x                            QUA                                                                                                 W                                                                                               A d r i a t i c                                     Laç
x                                                                                                                                K                                                                                                                                                                Burrel

                                                                                                                                A                                                                                                                                                        Krujë          Bulqizë
                                                                                                                               E                                                                                          41°30'                                                                                                        41°30'

                                                                                                                              R                                                                                                                                                                                               F. Y. R .
       10                                                                                                                    B                                                                                                                                                         TIRANË
                        5                                                                                                                                                                                                              S e a                      Durrës                                                  M A C E D O N I A
                       Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A L B A N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kavajë                      Librazhd
                    QUA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peqin          Elbasan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41°00'                                                                                                        41°00'
                     QUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lushnje
                          Y
                            4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GramshPogradec
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kuçovë

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fier
                                  QUAY 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Berat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0 10  20   30  40 50

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KILOMETERS                                       Ballsh                            Korçë   Bilisht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18°30'          19°00'

                                          QUA                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40°30'                                     Corovode                       40°30'

                         W 4
                           A                   Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Vlorë
             B               R                   2
               R              E H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ersekë
                 E                O                                                                                                                                                                                                  PORTS
                   A                U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tepelenë
                     K               S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Përmet
                        W              ES                                                                                                                                                                                            SELECTED CITIES

                          A                                                                                                                            0          100           200           300          400
                            T                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                              E                                 QUA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gjirokastër
                                R                                                                                                                                             METERS
                                                                   Y                                                                                                                                                                                          40°00'                                                                    40°00'
                                                                     1                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL ROADS                                             Delvinë
                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                       RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                Sarandë                            G R E E C E
                                                                                                                                               on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                    INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                                                               judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                  BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                               acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19°30'              20°00'             20°30'             21°00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAY 2005

