Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3068 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Durres Port Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 9, 1998 
CREDIT NUMBER 3068 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1998, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith (the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement), the 
OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund) has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $5.0 million to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the OPEC Fund 
loan Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning January 1st 
and ending December 31, of each year;
(b)
"Fiscal Zone" means the area where goods are under the authority and 
control of the Borrower’s General Directorate of Customs;
(c)
"PDA" means the Port Durres Authority of the Borrower, as established 
under the Council of Ministers’ Resolution No. 907 dated December  9, 1996; 
(d)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established within the Ministry 
of Public Works and Transport of the Borrower;
(e)
"Privatization and Manpower Action Plan" means the Plan to privatize 
operations at the Port of Durres dated March 10, 1998;
(f)
"Project Coordinator" means the Project coordinator in the PMU 
responsible for the monitoring of progress, quality and financial performance of the 
Project;
(g)
"Regulation" means the Regulation governing the relationship between the 
Borrower and PDA as stipulated by the Council of Ministers’ Resolution No. 907 dated 
December 9, 1996;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"Statute" means the statute incorporating the Port of Durres as a joint 
stock company.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
Page  3
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2008 and ending April 15, 2038.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through PDA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Page  4
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,  the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the actions set forth in the Privatization and 
Manpower Action Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  5
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause PDA to earn for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year beginning 
on January 1, 1999, an annual return of not less than 5% of the current net value, 
averaged over the last three years, of PDA's fixed assets in operation.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall cause 
PDA to, on the basis of forecasts prepared by PDA and satisfactory to the Association, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that PDA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for PDA’s fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower 
shall promptly cause PDA to take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing PDA’s net 
operating income for the fiscal year in question by one third of 
the sum of the current net value of PDA's fixed assets in 
operation at the end of that fiscal year, and of the two fiscal 
years preceding that fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total operating expenses.
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations, including leases or concessions.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation of 
fixed assets in operation, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently applied methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
(v)
The term "current net value of PDA's fixed assets in operation" 
means the gross value of PDA's fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause PDA to maintain, for its fiscal year beginning on January 1, 1999, a ratio 
of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 78% and a 
working ratio of less than 72%.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by PDA and satisfactory to the Association, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that PDA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for PDA’s fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower 
shall promptly cause PDA to take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation of 
fixed assets in operation as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently applied methods of 
evaluation satisfactory to the Association.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations, including leases and concessions.
Page  6
(iii)
The term "working ratio" means the ratio of total working expenses 
to total operating revenues.
(iv)
The term "total working expenses" means total operating expenses 
less provision for depreciation and interest on long-term debt.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  the OPEC 
Fund Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, 
or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Statute shall have been approved by the Council of Ministers and  
members of the supervisory council of the joint stock company of PDA shall have been 
appointed;
(b)
the Regulation shall have been adopted; and
(c)
the Project Coordinator with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association shall have been appointed. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Page  7
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ P. Bushati
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Hartmann 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   3,800,000
48%
(2)
Goods
   5,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 
of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants for:
Page  8
(a) Studies
     600,000
90%
(b) Technical
     700,000
100%
assistance
(c) Training
     300,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
   1,300,000
TOTAL
  12,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
575,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after November 30, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the commercialization of PDA 
by establishing an autonomous port, privatizing operations, improving customs 
procedures, and improving operations and safety; and (b) rehabilitate PDA’s 
infrastructure and equipment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Port Works
The carrying out of works for: (i) the rehabilitation of berths, the breakwater 
warehouses and offices; and (ii) the construction of customs installations.
Part B:   Rehabilitation and Supply of Port Equipment
1.
The provision of goods for: (i) navigation aids; (ii) port lighting; and (iii) 
environmental protection measures.
2.
The supply and rehabilitation of cranes.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.
The provision of office equipment, technical assistance and training to PDA.
2.
The carrying out of a secondary ports study, an environmental survey and an 
urban transport study for the City of Tirana.
3.
The provision of technical assistance for privatization and regulation of 
private operations of PDA, establishing a training center for PDA and supervision of 
works and Project coordination.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3.0 million equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent,  may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  10
(a)
With respect to all contracts under Part B of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts under Part C.1 of this Schedule, 
the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 
(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of  
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for privatization and regulation of private operations under Part C.3 
of the Project, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for the secondary ports study under Part C.2 of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for technical assistance and training 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for 
individuals, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for technical assistance and training 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for firms and $50,000 for 
individuals, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
2.
Post Review
Page  11
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by June 30, 1999, extend the Fiscal Zone of the port of Durres to the 
entire area under the port’s jurisdiction; 
(b)
maintain PMU with staffing, powers and functions satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(c)
carry out the Privatization and Manpower Action Plan without increasing 
the total port staff above the November 1997 level as agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  12
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amount, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
Page  13
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
