                                                Document of
                                           The World Bank


                                     FOR OFFICE USE ONLY


                                                                             Report No:NCO0000126




                               NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION
                                              (IBRD-72370)




                                                   ON A

                          LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                                 FOR AN

                               INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2007




Public Sector
Andean Countries CMU
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Effective Exchange Rate)
                                  Currency Unit= US$
                                      US$ 1.00= US$
                                      US$ 1.00= US$
                                          Fiscal Year
                                JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31


                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS         Country Assistance Strategy          MERCOSUR    Southern Common Market
CAE         Ecuadorian Customs Corporation       NFPS        Non Financial Public Sector
            Commission of Civic Control for                  Operations Procedures/ Bank
CCCC                                             OP/BP
            Corruption                                       Procedures
CMU         Country Management Unit              PAD         Project Appraisal Document
            Electronic System for Public
CONTRATANET                                      PCU         Project Coordination Unit
            Contracting
            Swiss Agency for Development                     Program for Economic Restructuring
COSUDE                                           PERHD
            and Cooperation                                  and Human Development
FM          Financial Management                 PETS        Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys
                                                             Second Indigenous and Afro-
FMA         Financial Management Assessment      PRODEPINE   Ecuadorian Peoples Development
                                                             Project
FTA         Free Trade Agreement                 SBA         Stand By Arrangement
                                                             National Technical Secretariat for
GOE         Government of Ecuador                SENRES      Human Resource Development and
                                                             Remuneration
IADB        Inter American Development Bank      SRI         Internal Revenue Service
IMF         International Monetary Fund          TA          Technical assistance
IRP         Institutional Reform Project         QER         Quality Enhancement Review
            Implementation Status Results
ISR                                              URHI        Human Resources Administrative Unit
            Report
                                                             United States Agency for International
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance      USAID
                                                             Development




           Vice President:                    Pamela Cox
           Country Director:                  Marcelo Giugale
           Sector Manager:                    Fernando Rojas
           Project Team Leader:               Edgardo Mosqueira Medina
           NCO Team Leader :                  Edgardo Mosqueira Medina



                                                                                              2

                                                  Ecuador
                      INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROJECT
                                              CONTENTS




A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... 4
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................. 4
C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... 4
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... 5
E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................. 5
F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs.................................................................... 5
I. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design............................................. 7
II. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation ....................................... 14
III. Assessment of Bank Performance ........................................................................... 15
IV. Assessment of Borrower Performance .................................................................... 18
V. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................... 19
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 20
Annex 2. Table 3 PAD EC IRP: Risks and Mitigations Measures................................ 22
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 23
   MAP




                                                                                                                                3

A. Basic Information


Country:              Ecuador              Project Name:         INSTITUTIONAL
                                                                 REFORM PROJECT
Project ID:           P085302              L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-72370
NCO Date:             12/28/2006

Lending Instrument:   SIL                  Borrower:             REPUBLIC OF
                                                                 ECUADOR
Original Total
Commitment:           USD 20.0M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 0.0M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies

Vice-Ministry of Economy
Co financiers and Other External Partners


B. Key Dates


Process           Date            Process           Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review: 03/02/2004        Effectiveness:
Appraisal:        04/27/2004       Closing:         12/31/2008      01/06/2006
Approval:         06/22/2004




C. Ratings Summary


3.1 Performance Rating by NCO

Outcomes:                                   Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                           Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Unsatisfactory




                                                                                  4

D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                   Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central Government Administration                                   100
                                                                   Original Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                            Primary
Legal institutions for a market economy                            Secondary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                               Secondary
Tax policy and administration                                      Secondary
Trade facilitation and market access                               Secondary


E. Bank Staff

Positions                                               AT NCO            At Approval
Vice President:                                         Pamela Cox        David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                       Marcelo Giugale   Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                                         Fernando Rojas    Ron Myers

Project Team Leader:                                    Edgardo           Edgardo
                                                        Mosqueira Medina Mosqueira Medina

NCO Team Leader:                                        Edgardo
                                                        Mosqueira Medina
NCO Primary Author:                                     Carmen Romero


F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual Disbursements
No.                Date ISR Archived DO               IP
                                                                    (USD Millions)

01                 12/22/2004          Satisfactory   Satisfactory   0

02                 04/22/2005          Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory 0




                                                                                           5

6

                I.     Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design



    A) Country and sector background


1. Since the year 2000, Ecuador has made significant progress in stabilizing its economy by
restoring price stability, growth, and confidence in the financial system. In 2003, at the time
project preparation began, growth was 3 percent and inflation declined to 6. percent from 9.4
percent in 2002. The NFPS primary surplus increased from 4.3 percent of GDP in 2002 to about
4.7 percent in 2003, corresponding to a fiscal surplus of about 2 percent of GDP.

2. The Gutierrez Administration, which took office in January 2003, committed itself to further
economic, political, and governance reforms through the Program for Economic Restructuring
and Human Development (PERHD). Under its economic pillar, the PERHD sought to improve
fiscal discipline, stimulate production and commerce, improve basic infrastructure, strengthen
financial markets, and create more flexible and competitive labor markets. The social pillar
pursued reforms in education, health, and social assistance to fight poverty more effectively.
Finally, the governance pillar aimed at combating corruption, improving public service delivery
and transparency, and increasing overall security. This reform agenda was supported by a Stand-
By Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF.

3. Public sector reform and service improvement were identified as key to achieving the
objectives of the PERHD. State-capture by vested interests, rent-seeking, weak accountability,
and lack of transparency were perceived as having adversely affected growth and poverty
outcomes. The government still loses an estimated one-third of its tax income through
corruption, although there are indications that recent reforms have led to improved collection.
Companies report having to pay an additional 15 percent of total contract costs to win public
bids. Low degrees of transparency are a burden on the poorest and most vulnerable, which are
often the most seriously affected by corruption and poor service delivery. Households reported
paying bribes to public officials for selected public services 41 percent of the time.

4. At the time of Project Appraisal Document (PAD) approval, poor governance, as
demonstrated by low institutional capacity and high corruption, posed a major threat to economic
and social development in Ecuador.          The country ranked low in the region in terms of
government effectiveness- understood as the quality of public services, competence of
government employees, independence of public institutions from political pressures and citizen
confidence in Government policies. Political manipulation undermined efficient human resource
management. At that point, Ecuador ranked 113 of 130 countries in the Corruption Perception
Index.




                                                                                              7

    B) Rationale for Bank Assistance


5. Bank involvement was tailored to respond closely both to government requests to support
key reforms and to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ecuador. In particular,
three factors created positive momentum towards reform. First, following the Internal Revenue
Service (SRI) reforms, demand was growing to tackle efficiency of public expenditure
management, procurement and civil service provision. Second, there was an important shift in
the incentive framework facing policy makers. Trade, global competition and dollarization sent
signals to authorities to reform the public sector and achieve transparency and efficiency, rather
than relying mainly on oil income. Finally, the Ministry of Economy and Finance ­under
stronger and more stable leadership than in previous governments - became more committed to
state reform, primarily for efficiency and budgetary reasons, helping to build a strong sense of
ownership.

6. At the time of project preparation, both the Gutiérrez Administration and the Ministry of
Economy and Finance demonstrated their commitment to governance reforms. In light of these
favorable circumstances for change, the Institutional Reform Project (IRP) hoped to take
advantage of the momentum and support the Government in its reform efforts.


    C) Project Description and Costs


7. The project focus was to support the Government in the implementation of the PERHD. This
was consistent with the third pillar of the CAS, which aimed at strengthening governance and
building an accountable and efficient government capable of providing high-quality, accessible
services accessible to all Ecuadorians. It also supported the first pillar of the CAS, which is
consolidation of the macroeconomic framework and is necessary for sustainable growth and
poverty reduction.

8. The Project's primary development objective was to guide the way to greater transparency,
efficiency and accountability by improving public revenue and expenditure management
capacities and service delivery, in particular in the areas of customs, procurement, and civil
services. Post-reform, these target areas would become models of state modernization that could
be expanded into the rest of the public sector. The Project's ultimate goal would be to provide
the basis for comprehensive public sector reform in order to promote higher growth and
competitiveness, while improving the state's responsiveness to the needs of its citizens and the
effectiveness of poverty reduction strategies. With this in mind, the project included the
following components:

    · Customs Reform (US$1.6 million): to improve efficiency and transparency of Customs by
        improving service-delivery for users and strengthening collection, inspection and
        compliance. The target groups were the officials of the Customs Authority and users of
        Customs services. Reforming the Ecuadorian Customs Administration (CAE) played a
        central role in this strategy. The CAE designed a draft Modernization Plan that included
        strengthening the role of the SRI on the CAE board, greater access to crosscheck import



                                                                                                8

 bills and CAE taxpayer information, stiffer penalties for the understatement of imports,
 and improved border controls (see Annex 4). These combined efforts would ensure
 improved service delivery for Customs clients, in particular for small and medium-sized
 enterprises that suffer losses due to delays in Customs clearance and the payment of
 bribes. Looking back at the pre-conditions to conclude the Free Trade Agreements (FTA)
 with the United States, MERCOSUR and the European Union (EU) in 2005, Customs
 reforms would not only have reduced fiscal losses due to inefficiencies and corruption,
  but would have facilitated trade integration and competitiveness as well.

· Procurement Reform (US$1.9 million): to expand access and enhance the transparency,
  efficiency and competitiveness of public procurement. Employees in charge of
  procurement in each public agency as well as the users of this service were the main
  target group. The creation of a transparent and efficient procurement system was a critical
  component of the overall strategy of the Project, where corruption had led to significant
  loss of public resources. In 2003, an Executive Decree established mandatory use of the
  electronic procurement system CONTRATANET for all public agencies. Developed
  under the leadership of the Anti-Corruption Commission (CCCC) - a constitutionally
  mandated organization composed of civil society representatives - all public institutions
  had to publish their procurement offers and underlying procurement documents
  electronically. Once CONTRATANET were transformed into a transactional system,
  bidding documents would be published, and bidders and their offers would be registered.
  The new draft Procurement Law and the recently passed Law on Access to Information
  would also have supported the elimination of exemptions and loopholes, and defined
  clear standards and reference prices.

· Professional Civil Service (US$6.3 million): to enhance efficiency and transparency in
  civil service management by developing central government capacity to monitor and
  manage the number, skills, remuneration and professionalism of its employees. The target
  group was the human resources agency (National Technical Secretariat for Human
  Resources Development and Remuneration in the Public Sector or SENRES) and the
  officials in charge of human resource management within each public agency. In 2003,
  Congress approved a Civil Service and Salary Unification Law. SENRES and the Human
  Resources Administrative Units (URHIs) in each government agency are responsible for
  implementing the law. Management reforms were necessary for the government to regain
  control over the wage bill, and contribute to a more effective, efficient, professional and
  accountable civil service.

· Efficiency and Accountability in Selected Public Agencies (US$8.2 million): to improve
  efficiency and to simplify service provision and management in selected agencies that
  had a broad based impact on citizens, such as the civil registry, small business
  registration, the authorizations provided by the national agency for food and drug
  administration (Registro Sanitario) and selected social programs. Public officials of these
  agencies and agency users made up the key target group. More efficient and transparent
  service-delivery would not only have reduced transaction costs, but also barriers to
  market entry, particularly for small and medium-sized businesses, leading to greater
  competition.



                                                                                            9

   · Change Management (US$5 million): to create the conditions necessary for successful
       implementation and sustainability of the project. The inputs included training,
       workshops, consultancies, M&E support, and communication strategies. The outputs
       included a project management unit that effectively manages the project, a well-
       functioning M&E system, greater participation of civil society in project design,
       implementation and monitoring, and effective change management strategies to create,
       communicate and provide greater institutional stability to support for reforms.


   D) Implementation Arrangements


9. The project design included the organization of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within
the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), under the leadership of the Sub-secretary of
Political Economy. The PCU's main functions included coordinating the activities of the
implementing agencies that were required to sign an implementation agreement with the MEF,
subject to Bank approval.

10. The Steering Committee was led by the Minister of Economy and Finance and was to be
made up of the heads of the CAE, SENRES and CCCC. Its main functions included the
overseeing of project implementation and providing strategic leadership and guidance to project
implementation. The Steering Committee was to be supported by a Technical Body, composed
of coordinators from each implementing agency, in order to oversee and direct the
implementation of each component.

11. The Advisory Board to the Steering Committee was to be made up of both national and
international experts, as well as representatives from civil society; its purpose is to provide
technical advice and support to the implementing agencies.

12. The PCU and implementing agencies would share responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation. Monitoring instruments included progress reports with process, progress, outcome,
and results indicators, plus a combination of ex ante and ex post monitoring, as well as impact
evaluations and user surveys.

13. The Bank arranged partnership agreements to support specific aspects of the project. USAID
offered to provide technical cooperation for the implementation of Customs Plan, Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB) offered to coordinate closely on civil service reforms and the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation (COSUDE) assisted in procurement reforms. The
Bank also actively sought the involvement of civil society in preparing the project.




                                                                                            10

    E) Risk Analysis


14. The project was considered a high-risk project. To identify potential risks, optimize project
design, and draw on lessons learned, the team prepared extensive analytical work that was
undertaken in parallel to project preparation. For this purpose the back ground notes, entitled
"Foundations for Institutional Reform in Ecuador," included specific analyses for each
component and a review of the political economy conditions necessary for the reform.

15. As stated in the PAD, Ecuador was at a critical juncture, facing crucial challenges and
choices. On the one hand, Ecuador could capitalize on the progress achieved in previous years
and further commit itself to fiscal discipline, state reform, greater efficiency and transparency in
public management, and improved service delivery. On the other, it could return to fiscal
profligacy and remain dependent on income from oil and therefore vulnerable to petroleum price
risk. In this context, the most significant risk identified in the PAD was the political environment
and continued fostering of vested stakeholder interests. The PAD emphasized that while the
benefits of state reform were evident, the government's strategy faced serious challenges,
namely:

    · Efficiency-enhancing reform threatened the interests of those who had a stake in the
        status quo. Whereas the "losers" of the intended reforms are often a concentrated group,
        the "winners" - such as general citizens and taxpayers ­ are more spread out and
        therefore more difficult to mobilize.

    · State reforms needed to produce some quick and visible results to demonstrate their
        feasibility and benefits. They would require strategic decision-making, careful
        sequencing and a close engagement with Stakeholders through change management.
        Reforms would also demand political leadership, commitment and a strong sense of
        ownership in order to design, implement, and sustain them.

16. The general risks to project implementation and the specific risks to each component, as well
as relevant mitigation measures, were identified in the PAD (Annex 2), including stakeholder
resistance, lack of commitment from public officials in charge of implementation, difficult
organization and mobilization of potential `winners', lack of short-term successes to enhance
credibility of the program, government failure to transfer customs to civil authorities, and new
opportunities for agencies' to be captured by vested interests.

17. The strategy to mitigate the project risks was described in the PAD and was based on the
following elements:

    · Capitalizing on the progress made in improving tax administration and fiscal
        management, and expanding into other reform areas, particularly on the expenditure side.
        The SRI constituted a key entry point, not only because of its links to customs (overseen
        by the joint SRI-CAE board), but also due to the progress made in human resource
        management and service-delivery in the previous reforms. On this basis, the following
        high-impact areas were selected: (i) customs, where the government has traditionally lost



                                                                                                 11

       significant fiscal revenues; (ii) human resource management, the largest recurrent
       expenditure and a key area for improving service delivery; (iii) procurement, where
       government loses precious resources due to limited low levels of transparency and
       efficiency; and (iv) selected areas where improved service-delivery will create positive
       fiscal and social impacts and will engender citizen support for reforms.

    · Identifying and supporting reform champions. The project strategy reflected the fact that
       state reform requires strong champions. The idea was to create `winners' from the reform
       process - "efficiency and transparency champions" ­ that had an interest in maintaining
       the changes that were being promoted. The operation took into account the fact that the
       private sector (particularly small-and medium sized enterprises) and specific public
       agencies such as the Anti-Corruption Commission (CCCC) and Ministry of Economy and
       Finance (MEF) were key players with an interest in transparency and efficiency reforms.
       Once these stakeholders play by the new rules of the game, they will increase the costs to
       those players who have incentives to break these new rules.

    · The involvement of civil society was intended to create and expand pressure for reform
       implementation. By creating civil society oversight committees and monitoring tools
       (such as citizen scorecards regarding procurement and selected service-delivery), and by
       promoting the use of participatory Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS), users
       and citizens at large would have formal means to increase their leverage over
       policymakers and hold them accountable for the results produced.

    · Finally, the operation included innovative reform management tools to build greater
       consensus and buy-in for the proposed reforms through a strong emphasis on change
       management (Component 5). Based on a diagnostic study of the status quo, obstacles, and
       need for strong political will in implementation, this component was aimed at engaging
       different key stakeholders to develop a shared vision of the proposed reforms. It also
       focused on the creation of consensus and communication of reform benefits.


    F) Quality at entry


18. A formal Quality Enhancement Review (QER) Meeting for the Ecuador Institutional Reform
Project was held on April 5, 2004. The Review concluded that the project complied with
technical, fiduciary and safeguard standards. The results of the discussion were as follows:

  i) Project Management:

    · The proposed model of the Steering Committee reflects international best practice. The
       structure of the Committee should be lean and include incentives for effective
       coordination. Its structure, mechanisms for ensuring accountability, and expected outputs
       should be clearly defined and agreed upon.

    · Institutional agreements between the MEF (which is heading the Project Coordination
       Unit (PCU)) and the individual implementing agencies could be formally agreed upon in


                                                                                              12

     writing to better ensure effective coordination. The agreements could include project
     management and procurement methods, performance benchmarks and progress
     monitoring indicators for each component.

ii) Exit indicators/Performance Benchmarks:

  · The review endorses exit indicators as an innovative feature that has been pioneered by
     the team. They do not require a policy exception, but should be termed as performance
     benchmarks in the Loan Agreement. They should be as clear as possible, be selective and
     include only those conditions that are critical to project progress. Finally, they should
     focus not only on outputs, but also on the impact of reforms.

iii) Monitoring and evaluation:

  · The selected monitoring and evaluation (M&E) indicators should be further specified,
     wherever possible, while allowing for sufficient flexibility. Indicators should be limited
     in number and focus on key results and should also include more impact indicators. M&E,
     (including participatory M&E) should be an important part of project management and
     supervision and might require substantial resources.

iv) Selected Services:

  · Eligibility requirements for potential participating agencies should be further defined and
     should include incentives for agencies to participate. At least one agency should be
     selected prior to Board approval.

v) Conditions of Effectiveness:

  · There should be fewer conditions for effectiveness. The proposed conditions could
     include those that would need to be fulfilled prior to Board approval and those necessary
     for project effectiveness.

  · A Financial Management Assessment (FMA) of the Sub-Secretaria de Politica
     Economica and Sub-Secretaria Administrativa of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
     (MEF) evaluated the proposed strategy as well as the PCU's capacity to provide the Bank
     with accurate, reliable and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. The
     joint assessment (performed on site from March 29 to April 1, 2004) with the
     Procurement Capacity Assessment was conducted in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and
     the Guidelines for Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank
     Financed Projects. As a result of the assessment, consolidated time-bound Financial
     Management (FM) and Procurement Action plans were proposed.

  · The initial recommendations regarding quality, finance and procurement, were
     incorporated into the PAD, loan and project design.




                                                                                             13

               II.   Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation

19. The Loan was approved by the Board on June 22, 2004, but was not signed or made effective
within 18 months of Board approval. The Government of Ecuador failed to meet the pre-
requisites for project effectiveness, and the deadline for compliance was exceeded in December
2005. The Government also did not submit the required documents to support fulfillment of loan
conditionalities. Despite Bank efforts to assist the Government of Ecuador with documentation
requirements and facilitate project effectiveness, the authorities appeared to no longer be
committed to project implementation.

20. By December 2005, many of the circumstances that were favorable to reform 18 months
prior were no longer present. Changes in the Ministry of Finance caused delays to the process
and particularly to the effectiveness of the project. Since Board approval five Ministers of
Finance and an even larger number of vice ministers have been replaced. This administrative
instability threatened the credibility of President Gutierrez's administration.               The
administration's credibility was further undermined when Congress voted to replace the majority
of the Supreme Court Judges in 2004. President Gutierrez seized the opportunity to place his
allies on the Court and then subsequently dissolved the Court entirely in April 2005.

21. During this time, President Gutierrez' already tenuous relationship with Congress continued
to decline. Increased political polarization between the parties greatly diminished opportunities
for progress in the area of institutional reform. In November and December 2004, President
Gutierrez was threatened with impeachment on two different occasions. Finally, amid street
protests and labor strikes, Congress removed President Gutierrez for "dereliction of duty."

22. President Gutierrez was succeeded by then-Vice-President Alfredo Palacio, who indicated
that the GoE wished to reevaluate relations with the IMF and World Bank. Mr. Rafael Correa
replaced Mr. Mauricio Yepez as the Minister of Economy and Finance and ended the IMF's
intensive surveillance program, which had been a pre-requisite for loan approval.

23. During this period of instability the Bank continued to hold discussions with the MEF, now
under Minister Magdalena Barreiro, who replaced Mr. Correa. A portfolio review was held on
October 6 2005 by the country manager and the new authorities at the MEF. The Ministry
confirmed their interest in the loan but informed the Bank that current fiscal constraints would
make it necessary to restructure the project. The authorities wanted to concentrate on
administrative reforms, such as those pertaining to procurement, or those on which there was
already a high degree of national consensus, such as the proposed civil service reform. Politically
contentious components related to the reform of Petro-Ecuador and the social security agencies
were to be dropped.

24. In the portfolio review of October 6, 2005, the new team at the MEF decided to restructure
the Bank's portfolio and the Government requested time to evaluate the project as well as several
other active World Bank projects, such as the Second Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples
Development Project (PRODEPINE). At the same time, the Government affirmed its continued
interest in some aspects of the institutional reform project, including procurement and human
resource management.



                                                                                                14

25. On February 26, 2007, the current Minister of Economy, Mr. Patiño, asked that these reforms
be implemented through the Public Sector Financial Management Project (Oficio No. MEF-SCP-
2007/0209).     This project, which is currently active, will develop specific modules in its
Financial Management System in this context. The indication is therefore that the project
preparation document correctly identified critical areas of reform. The problems faced in the loan
implementation, however, highlight the difficulties in obtaining political consensus on more
sensitive issues as well as the key role played by the broader relationship between the domestic
authorities and the Bank.



                              III.  Assessment of Bank Performance


26. In light of the task team's attention to technical and fiduciary quality, and Management's
consistent support and follow-up at every level and at each stage, Bank performance is rated as
Satisfactory, in spite of loan cancellation. Bank involvement was tailored to respond closely both
to government requests to support key reforms and to the Bank's country assistance strategy. The
task team and management performed all due diligence to facilitate project effectiveness as is
explained below.

27. In terms of project design, the Bank provided strong analytical support to identify areas of
and political economy conditions for reform. These analyses allowed the Bank to advise the
Government on project design and on potential risks to effective implementation. Some of these
risks manifested shortly after President Gutierrez' administration and the main supporters of
reform left the MEF.        When President Palacio took over, the Bank executed all required
activities to facilitate and inform the new authorities about the content, expected results and risks
of the project. Additionally, the Bank supported the new authorities' decision-making process
through technical and fiduciary support, preparation of additional analytical work and project
restructure requested by the Government (including the design and cost-benefit analysis of a
severance payment program).


    A) Risk Management


28. The Bank correctly identified the major risks for program failure in the PAD and took action
to minimize those risks to the extent possible.

    i) Risk from vested interests: During the concept review, Bank staff decided to conduct an
        in-depth stakeholder analysis to identify champions, engage stakeholders and reduce
        resistance to reforms. This included an analysis of the political economy of institutional
        reform in Ecuador, based on interviews with politicians from the government and
        opposition parties, authorities at the central and municipal level, and academicians. The
        team also held consultations with civil society in Quito and Guayaquil. However,
        frequent changes in the administration reduced the Government's commitment to reform
        and rendered the identification of reform champions difficult. This was further
        complicated by the review of GoE relations with the World Bank and IMF.


                                                                                                  15

    ii) Risk from stress on institutional capacity during implementation: Following Board
        approval, the Task Team members performed daily follow-up on the process of GoE
        compliance with requirements and maintained permanent contact with MEF authorities.
         The Bank offered assistance on various occasions to the GOE in order to make the
         project effective, but received no substantive response.

    iii) Risk from political instability: The Bank continued to hold discussions with the different
        administrations at the MEF. Several missions were sent and discussions with government
         officials were held on a regular basis. After the Ecuadorian Government changed, five
         important missions were organized in 2005 to explain the content, importance and
         potential benefits of the IRP to the new Government. These are listed below:

    · March Mission: A timetable was agreed upon for implementation of the pre-requisites.
         The Aide Memoire was signed by the Sub-Secretary of Economy Javier Game.

    · June Mission: Change of MEF authorities. The mission held meetings with the new
         authorities at the MEF to explain the content and benefits of the project. No agreements
         were reached.

    · August Mission: Change of MEF authorities. The mission held meetings with the new
         authorities at the MEF and presented a proposal to restructure the project, including a
         "Severance Payment Component". After the formal request by the Government to include
         this new component, the Country Manager sent to the Vice-Minister of Economy, Mr.
         Alexis Valencia, a formal letter on September 8, 2005, prepared by the team, with a
         proposal for project restructuring and effectiveness.

    · October Mission: The team and MEF authorities completed preparation of the project
         restructuring plan. The team also supported the Government in the completion of the
         project effectiveness conditions.

    · November Mission: The team held meetings with MEF authorities to present the
         restructuring proposal. A preliminary Agreement was reached. The mission also
         delivered to the Government all the requested inputs for project effectiveness.


    B) Due Diligence Following Approval of Loan


29. The approval and attempts to implement the project played out over several stages. At each
stage, the Bank team supported the Government in the preparation, completion and drafting of
the required documents, information and plans. Additionally, the Bank followed up on each pre-
requisite, and attempted to engage each successive administration over this highly politically
volatile period.

    · Regarding project effectiveness, the team assisted the MEF in completion of pending loan
        effectiveness conditions. The team worked with the Government to prepare a final


                                                                                                16

  version of the Project's Operational Manual and Terms of Reference for members of a
  Project Coordination Unit.

· Regarding project restructuring, the team supported the preparation of the analysis that
  the MEF requested as project justification. For this purpose the team delivered the
  project's cost-benefit analysis (as prepared during project preparation) to the Government
  and complemented it with an analysis linking the proposed reforms to improved
  management, tariff and tax collection, fiscal balances, transparency, and compliance with
  norms for free-trade agreements.

· Regarding additional components requested, the team prepared the basic concept note
  and technical analysis for the justification and preparation of the "Severance Payment
  Component". At the Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Public Works,
  Ministry of Labor, and SENRES (Human Resources Secretariat) the team collected the
  information necessary to define of the program's objective, its legal and operational
  characteristics, cost-benefit analysis, mechanisms to avoid adverse selection, analysis of
  the program's impact on the labor market as well as its social impact. The team provided
  the Government with the scope and characteristics of the "Severance Payment Program",
  including legal framework, conditions to be established to participate in the program,
  scope and targeting, and elements to calculate the fiscal and labor market impact.
  Additional technical analysis to measure the fiscal, social and labor impact was under
  preparation by the team at the time of loan cancellation.

· Regarding financing of new components, the team reviewed project components to
  identify savings that could finance the new severance payment component. Experts in
  customs, procurement and civil administration held meetings with the Customs Office,
  the Office of the Procurador General and SENRES to review and prepare new
  Operational Plans for these components. Once the work was concluded, the team was
  able to comply with the MEF's request that $16 million of the project's total budget of
  $20 million be made available to finance the new component

· Regarding changes in existing components, the team followed up with the concerned
  authorities. To revise the Civil Service Component, the team held meetings with the
  MEF, SENRES and the Ministry of Labor. To revise the customs component, the team
  held meetings with authorities from the Ecuadorian Customs Corporation.

· Regarding a communications strategy, the team maintained permanent contact with the
  implementing agencies and the GoE. The task team provided guidance and support to
  complete the MEF's validation of the project. It replied promptly to requests from the
  MEF to modify the negotiated Loan Agreement, analyzing alternative project designs and
  implementation scenarios together with the MEF. It also provided legal analysis and
  support when issues about the legal agreement were raised by the Office of Ecuador's
  Attorney General.




                                                                                         17

                          IV.     Assessment of Borrower Performance


30.     Based on the following assessment of counterpart agencies during preparation and
implementation, borrower performance has been rated as "Unsatisfactory." This is because of
frequent regime changes within the administration leading to lack of consistency in commitment
to the project, inability to satisfy pre-requisites even given Bank support at each stage during the
post-approval period, and the decision of the GoE to abandon the loan as part of its broader
review of relations with international financial institutions in spite of the huge amount of effort
put in by the task team. The following points highlight the difficulties created by the rapidly
changing political context in Ecuador for project implementation, and the lack of will on the part
of the GoE to follow through:-

    i) After the signing of the project agreement, changes within the MEF authorities required a
         Bank mission --carried out in July 2004-- to agree on a project effectiveness timetable
         with the new authorities. The agreements reached during the July mission were not
         fulfilled by the Government. In March 2005, after a new mission, the Government
         confirmed its interest in the project, especially in the implementation of the process to
         select and hire a project coordinator. However, the steps agreed upon with the Sub-
         Secretary of Economy in the March 2005 Aide Memoire, as being necessary for the
         project to be effective once implemented, were also left unfulfilled by the Government.

    ii) In mid 2005, the Government held discussions with the Country Management Unit
         (CMU) to make a decision about project effectiveness. The GOE requested changes to
         the project design in order to incorporate a new component into it covering severance
         payments. A formal letter of request was sent to the Bank at the end of August 2005 (see
         Attachment 1). The Bank responded in September 2005 accepting the incorporation of
         this new project component and informing the GOE of the required steps: (i) completion
         of GOE administrative steps towards effectiveness, and (ii) preparation of the project
         restructuring according to World Bank policies for severance payments projects (see
         Attachment 2). The GOE did not confirm its acceptance of the proposed steps until the
         MEF agreed at the Annual Meetings at the end of September.

    iii) In January 2006, the new authorities at the MEF agreed with the Bank to move forward
         with the targeted reforms, and worked closely with the Bank to outline a possible project
         restructuring. The Government's proposal included the cancellation of some project
         components, the inclusion of a new component for severance payment and the overall
         reduction of the loan. During the following months, the Bank worked on a proposal to
         restructure the project, although after several presentations and discussions on the subject,
         the Government decided to cancel the Project. On June 1st 2006, the MEF informed the
        Bank that the Government of Ecuador had decided not to sign the loan agreement.




                                                                                                  18

                                      V.     Lessons Learned


31.     The entire process of project preparation, loan approval, concept review, QER, and
follow-up post board approval, has highlighted the need for the Bank to continue to engage the
GoE in its efforts to promote institutional reform, in spite of the cancellation. The task team
received mixed signals from the GoE, largely because of the rapidly changing political landscape
in Ecuador. At the same time, the GoE made clear that while certain aspects of the reform were
no longer of interest to them, they remained appreciative of the potential role of the World Bank
in bringing about key and highly focused efficiency-enhancing institutional changes. Lastly, the
GoE itself was constrained by domestic difficulties during this period and therefore may have
been unable to fulfill pre-requisites in spite of Bank support. To summarize:-

32.     Political instability complicates project implementation. The risk of failure is high when
the main actors are in conflict, in particular over the control of key stakeholder institutions whose
cooperation is critical to implementation. As the risk analysis included in the PAD stated, some
of the institutions included as reform components were controlled by government factions or
captured by specific vested interests. The project was expected to implement change
management activities aimed at reducing resistance from these factions and interests. However,
these measures could not be implemented because the project was not effective. Some of these
measures could have been implemented directly by the Government prior to project
effectiveness.

33.     Political instability affects government leadership and commitment to reforms. Frequent
administrative changes hindered the team in the identification of reform champions. Sense of
ownership dwindled with each regime change, leading to dissipation of leadership commitment
to project implementation.

34.     Individual projects' successful implementation is critically dependent on the broader
context of relations with the World Bank. Government's decision to review the role of the
cooperation provided by the World Bank and the IMF added instability and prevented the
government authorities to take decisions about project effectiveness.

35.     Despite political instability and the GOE's re-evaluation of the role of the Bank, some of
the components promoted by the project were important to the Government's broad reform
strategy.   This implies that some institutional reforms can yet be implemented through an
alternative route (i.e. through the Public Sector Financial Management Project as suggested by
the Government). This also may confirm that the Government remains interested in reform and
possibly even in continued engagement with the Bank, albeit on its own terms.




                                                                                                  19

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members



Names                     Title                              Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Edgardo Mosqueira         Senior Public Sector Specialist    LCSPS  Task Team Leader
Margarita Andrade         Consultant                          LCSPS Local Consultant
Enrique Fanta Ivanovic    Senior Public Sector Specialist     LCSPS Customs
Jonas Manuel Frank        Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.           LCSPS Decentralization
Carmen Machicado          Operations Officer                  LCSPS Operations

Patricia Mc Kenzie        Sr Financial Management Specialist  OPCFM Financial
                                                                    Managment

Kathrin A. Plangemann     Senior Public Sector Specialist     LCSPS Co-Task Team
                                                                    Leader
Jeffrey James Rinne       Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.           LCSPS Human Resources
Jorge Salazar             Consultant                          CSRSI Civil Society
Geoffrey Shepherd         Consultant                          LCSPS Political Economy
Eniko Simon               Junior Professional Associate       LCSPS
Magdalena Zold            Consultant                          LCSPT Anticorruption

Supervision/NCO
Enzo De Laurentiis        Manager                             LCSPT Procurement
Enrique Fanta Ivanovic    Senior Public Sector Specialist     LCSPS Customs

Ana Lucia Jimenez Nieto   Financial Management Analyst        LCSFM Financial
                                                                    Management
Carmen Machicado          Operations Officer                  LCSPS Operations
Marcelo Amador Osorio     Consultant                          LCSPT Procurement

Kathrin A. Plangemann     Senior Public Sector Specialist     LCSPS Co-Task      Team
                                                                    Leader
William Reuben            Sr Social Scientist                 LCSSO

Jeffrey James Rinne       Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.           LCSPS Human Resources
                                                                    and Civil Service




                                                                                    20

   (b) Staff Time and Cost

                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                             No. of staff weeks          USD    Thousands    (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                                     300.03
FY05                                                     12.73
FY06                                                     7.91
FY07                                                     0.00
Total:                                                   320.67
Supervision/NCO
FY04                                                     0.00
FY05                                                     45.67
FY06                                                     115.06
FY07                                                     2.96
Total:                                                   163.69




                                                                                     21

Annex 2. Table 3 PAD EC IRP: Risks and Mitigation Measures


                       Risks                                       Risk Mitigation Measures              Risk Rating
                                                                                                        with Mitigation

                                           To project development objective

Intended reforms activate latent stakeholder           Change management will provide elements to            H
resistance to block reform.                            anticipate and address stakeholder resistance.
                                                       Close monitoring and supervision with
                                                       progress indicators will signal viability for
                                                       reform.

Policymakers cannot convince the officials             Civil society oversight will create additional        H
responsible for implementing reforms of the            demands and pressure for reform from outside
benefit of reforms.                                    the state apparatus.
                                                       Publication and dissemination of reform
                                                       targets to improve accountability.

While the "losers" of reform (e.g. agency              The project involves key civil society                H
directors, private companies that often win            organizations (for instance chambers of
procurement contracts) are concentrated, the           commerce) to overcome collective action
"winners" of reform are dispersed (e.g.                problems.
taxpayers, citizens). The "winners" may be             Change management, particularly widespread
difficult to mobilize in support of the reform,        communication and dissemination of reform
thereby threatening sustainability.                    success in specific areas will help raise broad
                                                       awareness.

There are no short-term successes to enhance the Component 4 is designed in a flexible way to                H
credibility of the reform program.                     select those institutions where success is likely
                                                       and the reform impact will be highly visible.

Civil society groups may lose interest and             Regular interaction with civil society groups         H
disengage during reform implementation.                during supervision to ensure their continued
                                                       involvement.

                                                  To component results

The government cannot transfer Customs                 The civil society oversight committee will            H
administration to civilian authorities                 create external pressure for effective reform.
(Component 1).                                         Close supervision and monitoring of progress
                                                       will take place.

Administrative autonomy granted to agencies            Steering Committee provides institutional             S
with the objective to facilitate implementation of framework for mutual monitoring and
reform provides new opportunities for capture          supervision.
(in particular with regards to Component 1).           Implementing agencies depend on MEF for
                                                       disbursement of funds.

Civil service reform (Component 3) is not a            Publication and dissemination of targets of           S
visible area and implies that change is achieved       reform to civil society.
only from within the state apparatus.

The Bank is unable to signal to implementing           Bank supervision must signal to government            H
agencies their responsibility for project              its responsibility in carrying out reform.
implementation and ownership of reform.                Training in change management will
                                                       contribute to creating ownership of reform.

Overall Risk Rating: H

Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)




                                                                                                                         22

Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents


WORLD BANK, Mission Aide memoir. 27- 30 April, 2004
WORLD BANK, Mission Aide memoir. Julio, 2004
WORLD BANK, Mission Aide memoir. March, 2005
WORLD BANK, Mission Aide memoir. October, 2005
WORLD BANK, Report on the Activities Executed for Project's Effectiveness and Restructure
Dec, 2005
WORLD BANK, PP presentation to MEF on IRP
WORLD BANK, Mission Aide memoir. November, 2006
WORLD BANK, Mission Aide memoir. January, 2006
WORLD BANK, Cancellation of Loan- Letter signed by Marcelo Giugale, LC6 Director
WORLD BANK, Country Assistance Strategy. Report # 25817-EC. April 29, 2003
WORLD BANK, Project Appraisal Document. Report # 28532-EC. May 26, 2004

MEF, Government's response accepting the terms of October 2005 aide memoir
MEF, Government's response accepting the terms of October 2005 aide memoir
MEF, Government's letter requesting to restructure the IRP ­ March, 2006
MEF, Government's letter requesting the cancellation of the IRP- June 2006
MEF, Government's Letter requesting amendment to the SIGEF Project to include components
from the IRP-Feb, 2007




                                                                                      23

