Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB828 
Project Name 
EC Institutional Reform 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);Central government 
administration (50%) 
Project ID 
P085302 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas 
Ecuador 
 
dmancheno@mef.gov.ec 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 29, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 26, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 22, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Ecuador is still recovering from one of the most serious economic crises in its history. Following 
the Asian crisis, a steep fall in oil prices, and the negative impact of 
El Niño
, from 1997 onwards 
the country had serious problems balancing revenue and expenditures. In 1999, the fiscal deficit 
reached 6,7% of GDP. Nearly half the banking sector, which in previous years had lent 
imprudently, collapsed. The severity of the fiscal crisis, high inflation, a debt default in 1998, 
and the devaluation of the domestic currency, led the government to officially dollarize in 
January 2000. The social impact of the crisis was considerable: unemployment rose from 10 to 
15 percent and half a million people emigrated to find jobs abroad. The poverty rate increased by 
7 percent in just the first two years of the crisis (1998–99). Particularly severe was the impact on 
urban poverty, with the number of poor increasing from 1.1 million to 3.5 million. Frequently 
changing governments and a high turn-over of key ministers illustrate the corresponding political 
instability in the country. 
 
Since 2000, however, Ecuador has achieved important progress in stabilizing the economy by 
restoring price stability, growth, and confidence in the financial system. In 2003, growth reached 
3 percent and inflation declined from 9.4 percent in 2002 to 6.1 percent in 2003. The NFPS 
primary surplus increased from 4.5 percent of GDP in 2002 to about 5 percent in 2003. As a 
result, the fiscal surplus doubled to about 2 percent of GDP. Real salary levels and 
unemployment rates are now back to 1998 levels. There is no doubt that the country has made 
important economic progress. 
 
Page  2
 
 
Ecuador is now at a critical juncture, facing crucial challenges and choices.
1
 It can capitalize on 
the progress achieved in previous years and further commit itself to fiscal discipline, state 
reform, greater efficiency and transparency in public management, and improved service 
delivery. Or it can return to fiscal profligacy and speculate that international oil prices will 
remain high enough to avoid a new economic crisis. 
 
The Gutiérrez Administration, which took office in January 2003, has committed itself to further 
economic, political, and governance reform in the 
Program for Economic Restructuring and 
Human Development 
(PERHD; Annex 1). Under its economic
 pillar, the PERHD seeks to 
improve fiscal discipline,  stimulate production and commerce, improve basic infrastructure, 
strengthen financial markets, and create more flexible and competitive labor markets. The social
 
pillar pursues reforms in education, health, and social assistance and security to fight poverty 
more effectively.  Finally, the governance
 pillar aims at combating corruption, improving public 
service delivery and transparency, and increasing overall security. The reform agenda is 
supported by a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF.  
 
Public sector reform and service improvement will be key to overcoming the challenges 
highlighted in the PERHD. State capture, rent-seeking and weak accountability and transparency 
have adversely affected growth and poverty outcomes. The government loses an estimated one-
third of its tax income through corruption, although recent reforms indicate the trend is 
improving. Companies report having to pay an additional 15% of the total contract cost to win 
public bids. Low transparency also works as a regressive tax on the most poor and vulnerable 
which are often most seriously affected by corruption and poor service delivery. Households 
report paying bribes to public officials for selected public services in 41% of cases.  
 
A civil service marked by inefficiencies and a lack of transparency is not only a burden for fiscal 
accounts, but also seriously limits the capacity of government to improve the coverage and 
quality of public services. Dollarization imposes new constraints as fiscal policy is the only 
means for steering the economy, underscoring the strong need to balance revenue and 
expenditures. If Ecuador wants to achieve economic growth, sustain dollarization, be competitive 
in the global economy, and reach the MDGs, it has to improve the efficiency and transparency of 
public management and the quality of service delivery. 
 
The government has made progress in reforming services in a few “islands of efficiency.” So far, 
these efforts have focused on the revenue side. A successful reform has been implemented in the 
tax administration agency (SRI). The streamlining of procedures, the introduction of electronic 
transactions, and improved services for taxpayers have resulted in heightened tax compliance 
(e.g., tax revenue in the first quarter of 2003 increased by 7.5 percent compared to the first 
quarter of 2002). This reform constitutes an important step forward for Ecuador, demonstrating 
very powerfully that institutional reform is possible. Based on the PERHD, the Gutiérrez 
administration now seeks to extend public sector reform to new areas, in particular Customs, 
procurement, civil service, and other selected public services and organizations (Figure 1). 
 
                                                
 
1
 See the analysis in the background policy notes prepared as part of the preparation of this project: “Foundations for 
Institutional Reform in Ecuador”, Washington DC, May 2004 
Page  3
 
 
Figure 1. The Government’s Public Sector Reform Strategy to be supported by the IRP 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The reform of the Ecuadorian Customs Administration (CAE) takes a central role in this 
strategy. The CAE has designed a draft Modernization Plan that includes strengthening the role 
of the SRI on the CAE board, greater access to crosscheck import bills and CAE taxpayer 
information, stiffer penalties for the understatement of imports, and improved border controls 
(see Annex 4). These combined efforts will ensure improved service-delivery for Customs 
clients, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises that lose resources due to delays in 
Customs clearance and the payment of bribes. Customs reform will not only reduce fiscal losses 
due to inefficiencies and corruption, but also facilitate trade integration and competitiveness—a 
pre-condition to conclude the Free Trade Agreements (FTA) with the United States, 
MERCOSUR and the EU in 2005.  
 
Another important area of service delivery improvement is to create a transparent and efficient 
procurement system, where corruption now leads to a loss of public resources. In 2003, an 
Executive Decree made the use of the electronic procurement system CONTRATANET 
mandatory for all public agencies. Developed under the leadership of the Anti-Corruption 
Commission (CCCC) - a constitutionally mandated organization composed of civil society 
representatives - all public institutions now must publish electronically their procurement offers 
and the documents underlying the procurement process. Once CONTRATANET is transformed 
into a transactional system, bidding documents will be published, and bidders and their offers 
will be registered. The new draft Procurement Law and the Law on Access to Information will 
also help eliminate exemptions and loop-holes, and define clear standards and reference prices. 
The state oil company PETROECUADOR, which carries out 70% of all government purchases, 
has been selected as a pilot entity to introduce the new transactional system.  
 
Personnel management reform is another key component of the reform agenda. In 2003, 
Congress approved a Civil Service and Salary Unification Law. Two key organizations are 
responsible for implementing the new law: (i) the National Technical Secretariat for Human 
Resource Development and Remuneration in the Public Sector (SENRES) and (ii) the Human 
Resources Administrative Units (URHIs) in each government agency. Management reforms will 
enable government to regain control over the wage bill, and contribute to a more effective, 
efficient, professional and accountable civil service.  
 
 
 
 
Reform of Revenue 
Authority (SRI) 
Customs Reform: CAE
Procurement Reform: CONTRATANET
Civil Service Reform: SENRES
Reform of selected public services, e.g. 
Civil Registry, PETROECUADOR 
First-Phase Reform: 
2000-2003 
Intended Second-Phase 
Reform: 2004 onwards 
Civil society 
participation 
 
Change 
Management 
 
Page  4
 
 
The government has also committed to reforming selected services that have a broad-based 
impact on citizens, such as the civil registry, small business registration, and the authorizations 
provided by the national agency of food and drug administration (
Registro Sanitario
). More 
efficient and transparent service-delivery would not only reduce transaction costs for citizens, 
but would also reduce barriers to market entry, particularly for small- and medium-sized 
businesses, leading to greater competition.  
 
While the benefits of state reform are evident, the government’s strategy presents serious 
challenges that could threaten its success. Efficiency-enhancing reform threatens the interests of 
those who have a stake in the status quo. Whereas the “losers” of the intended reforms often are 
a concentrated group, the “winners” – such as general citizens and taxpayers – are dispersed and 
therefore difficult to mobilize. State reform needs to produce some quick and visible results to 
demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of reform. It requires strategic decision-making, careful 
sequencing and a close engagement with stakeholders through change management. It also 
demands political leadership, commitment and ownership to design, implement, and sustain 
reform. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The Institutional Reform Project aims at improving efficiency and transparency in key target areas, 
through institution building and strengthening to reduce corruption and create demand and conditions for 
further reforms.  Specifically, the project is designed to: (a) improve revenue management and 
administrative control in customs to increase efficiency and transparency in revenue collection; (b) 
improve expenditure quality, reduce transaction costs, and increase transparency through the 
strengthening of internet-based public procurement and its institutional framework; and (c) launch key 
human resource management systems
 
 
Table 1. Project Development Objective and Key Indicators
 
Project Development 
Objective 
• 
(i) The Customs, procurement, civil service, and selected 
services are more efficient, effective, transparent, and 
accountable.  
• 
(ii) Reformed areas constitute models of state modernization 
to be expanded to other public sector areas. 
Key Indicators 
• 
(i) External and internal evaluations and user surveys show 
improved service delivery in key areas. 
• 
(ii) Greater access to information, transparency and regular 
reporting regarding the operation of reformed areas. 
• 
(iii) Competitive, meritocratic selection of human resources in 
implementation agencies. 
• 
(iv) Civil society monitoring and evaluation mechanisms are 
used to improve service delivery. 
 
The project will also monitor progress towards the Project Development Objective through each 
of the components. For example, indicators employed are, in the case of the Customs 
Component, a reduction in Customs clearance time to [10%] of the baseline as well as a 
reduction of [75%] of the differential import gap within three years. In the Procurement 
Component, progress indicators require publishing [100%] of government procurement 
Page  5
 
 
processes in the second year, and that [100%] of central government agencies operate with the a 
new CONTRATANET transactional system in the third year (refer to Annex 3 for details). 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Bank involvement is tailored to respond closely both to government requests to support key 
reforms and to the Bank strategy expressed in the CAS. In particular, three factors have 
generated a positive momentum for reform and the Bank’s involvement in Ecuador. First, 
following the SRI reforms, demand is growing to tackle the expenditure and efficiency side of 
the public sector, particularly in procurement and civil service management. Second, there is an 
important shift in the incentive framework facing policy makers. Trade, global competition and 
dollarization send signals to authorities to reform the public sector and achieve transparency and 
efficiency, rather than relying mainly on oil income. Finally, the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance -under stronger and more stable leadership than in previous governments – is committed 
to state reform, primarily for efficiency and fiscal reasons and ownership, helping built strong 
ownership.   
 
The Bank is seizing the momentum for reform and will support the government in its reform 
efforts. The close policy dialogue across all major development areas has been reflected in the 
CAS, the Ecuador Policy Notes and the expanding lending portfolio, particularly the two 
Programmatic Loans related to this project. This gives the Bank not only a strong role as a 
“knowledge bank” in Ecuador, but also the role of a catalyst for further reforms, especially in 
politically sensitive and complex areas. The Bank can leverage support from other donors, such 
as USAID, and will coordinate implementation closely with other agencies such as the IADB 
(refer to Annex 2). The Bank can also share knowledge and experiences from other countries and 
foster a debate on new and innovative ways of designing and implementing institutional reforms. 
Finally, the Bank’s previous involvement in institutional reforms in Ecuador includes important 
lessons learned from an earlier institutional reform project, MOSTA, carried out from 1996-
2000. 
 
4. Description 
 
This project has five components: (1) Customs Modernization; (2) Transparent Procurement; (3) 
Professional Civil Service Management; (4) Improved Public Service Delivery in Key Areas; 
and (5) Change Management (see Annex 4 for more a detailed description). 
 
The first four components are the key investment pillars. The complementary fifth component is 
designed to ensure effective project implementation across components and to help mitigate risks 
and to support project sustainability. It includes overall project management, monitoring and 
evaluation, civil society participation and specific change management instruments, including 
communication strategies. 
 
Component 1. Customs Modernization 
 
The 
objective 
is to enhance efficiency and transparency of Customs by improving  service-
delivery for users and strengthening collection, inspection and compliance. In particular, this 
Page  6
 
 
component aims to: (a) strengthen control and internal auditing systems and procedures, 
including greater control of merchandise and technological upgrades to detect VAT evasion, 
contraband and fraud; (b) promote greater coordination with SRI on joint auditing of large 
taxpayers; (c) improve human resource management systems; (d) enhance coordination between 
Customs and the Port Authority to improve Customs oversight and establish port-security 
systems; (e) reduce valuations and gradually eliminate the existing pre-shipment certificates; and 
(f) establish an oversight commission on Customs reforms for civil society organizations to 
monitor reform progress 
(Observatorio Aduanero)
.  
 
The 
target group 
focuses on officials of the Customs Authority and users of Customs services. 
As a 
result (outcome),
 users receive more effective and efficient services and Customs has 
improved collection systems and taxpayer compliance. The 
inputs 
are automation and 
technological upgrades, port security systems and technical assistance for organizational reforms, 
streamlining of procedures and the preparation of a draft Customs restructuring law and the 
Customs modernization plan (Annex 4). The 
outputs 
are effective control, auditing and human 
resource systems, and a functioning civil society observatory.   
 
Component 2. Transparent Procurement  
 
The 
objective 
is to
 
expand access and enhance transparency, efficiency and competitiveness of 
procurement. This component will (a) provide technical assistance to support the enactment of 
key legislation, such as a revised Procurement Law (reforms to Law No. 95) and an Electronic 
Public Transactions Law (including the implementation of some of the measures of the 2000 
reform package); (b) provide training on project administration and electronic procurement, 
including the establishment of a national knowledge-sharing expert network; (c) elaborate an 
Ethics Code for procurement on behalf of the CCCC; (d) expand coverage of the 
CONTRATANET (software built-in) by converting it from an informational to a transactional 
procurement system, and fully implementing the National Contractor Register system by 
including all institutions with transactional public services; (e) establish performance audits with 
a focus on pre-contractual stages; (f) provide training on new forms of procurement; (g) improve 
the national system of accreditation on procurement, including both the private and public 
sectors; (h) establish a procurement regulatory agency, including strengthening coordination 
between various agencies involved in procurement by creating a 
Consejo de Compras 
(with 
membership of CCCC, Comptroller General’s Office, Attorney General’s Office, and MEF); (i) 
audit the annual and multi-annual procurement plans of public entities; and (j) audit payments 
and crosscheck with bids under the system of 
“licitaciones”. 
 
Employees in charge of procurement in each public agency as well as the users of this service 
constitute the main 
target group
. The 
result (outcome) 
of this component is an improved ratio of 
cost/quality of goods and services purchased by government. The 
inputs 
to the component are 
software development for a new transactional system, training of staff in implementing agencies 
and of users in the use of the system, and technical assistance for organizational reforms in 
procurement (including performance audits, accreditation and the design of a new legal 
framework). Expected 
outputs
 include a transactional procurement system (including greater 
coverage and access), a revised legal framework, and a functioning public procurement 
regulatory agency. 
Page  7
 
 
 
Component 3. Professional Civil Service Management 
 
The 
objective 
is to enhance efficiency and transparency in the management of the civil service by 
developing the capacity of central government to monitor and manage the number, skills, 
remuneration and professionalism of its employees. This component seeks to: (a) develop a 
human resource management (HRM) database system linked to select personnel procedures, to 
SIGEF, and to the electronic payroll system established by the Central Bank; (b) strengthen 
professional human resource selection, evaluation and oversight mechanisms, by implementing 
civil service reforms in four pilot departments, in particular through their URHIs; and (c) 
improve transparency and access to information through dissemination of summary statistics 
through the SENRES website.  
 
The 
target group 
is the human resource agency SENRES and the officials in charge of human 
resource management in each public agency. As a 
result (outcome)
,
 
central government officials 
will be able to access real time data on staff composition, estimate future staffing needs, evaluate 
the fiscal impact of proposed salary changes, monitor personnel selection and evaluation 
procedures, define capacity-building needs, and manage staff allocations. The 
inputs 
to the 
component include software development, IT hardware, and training in human resource 
management. The 
output 
is a modern human resource management (HRM) database and 
oversight of staff selection and evaluation procedures in pilot departments for replication 
throughout central government.  
 
The government has also signaled interest in funding severance payments for public employees 
through this operation. However, funds for this purpose may be sufficient through an IADB loan. 
The World Bank will coordinate with the government and IADB to ensure that this request is 
effectively addressed.  
 
Component 4. Improved Public Service Delivery in Selected Areas 
 
The 
objective 
of this component is to improve efficiency and to simplify service provision and 
management in selected agencies. To select these agencies, particular eligibility criteria, 
including fiscal, social, management and efficiency indicators, will be specified in advance.
2
 
Candidate agencies will develop a reform plan consistent with the Operational Manual 
guidelines. The component may support: (a) simplification of administrative procedures; (b) 
institutional reengineering; (c) a change of management style towards greater client-orientation; 
(d) human resource and procurement reforms; and/or (e) citizen evaluation mechanisms, where 
applicable. 
 
Public officials of these agencies and agency users will constitute the key 
target group
. As a 
result (outcome), 
selected entities operate more efficiently and transparently and provide 
improved service delivery. The 
inputs 
to the component are procedural and/or organizational 
reforms, automation (e-government), and training for enhanced institutional capacity. Expected 
                                                
 
2
 Examples of requests for agencies to be reformed under this loan are the Civil Registry; the Sanitary Registry; 
Office for Business Licenses; and the state enterprise PETROECUADOR. 
Page  8
 
 
outputs 
are reduced transaction costs, more effective and efficient service delivery, and 
management improvements resulting in greater fiscal savings.   
 
Component 5. Change Management 
 
The 
objective 
is to create the conditions necessary for successful implementation and 
sustainability of the project. The component supports (a) project management; (b) monitoring 
and evaluation; (c) civil society participation; and (d) change management. The 
target group 
includes public officials in charge of implementing the project, both at the political as well as 
technical level (those delivering services), and other internal and external  stakeholders, 
including from both the private sector and civil society. The 
result 
(
outcome
) is that the project is 
managed and monitored effectively and that a greater consensus for reform is being built. 
 
The 
inputs 
include training, workshops, consultancies, M&E support and communication 
strategies. The 
outputs 
include a project management unit that effectively manages the project, a 
well-functioning M&E system, greater participation of civil society in project design, 
implementation and monitoring,  and effective change management strategies that help create, 
communicate and institutionalize greater support for reforms.  
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 5 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
26 
 Total 
31 
 
6. Implementation 
 
In preparation for this operation, the Bank has engaged in a close dialogue on institutional 
reforms with other donors and civil society, including the participants of the “
Mesa de 
Gobernabilidad
”. As a result of this donor coordination, specific partnership arrangements will 
be created to support the proposed project. Although no co-financing will take place, USAID 
will work in close cooperation with the Bank and will support the Plan for Customs Cooperation. 
The Bank and the IADB will coordinate closely their work on civil service reforms. The Bank 
will also cooperate with COSUDE (which financed the first stage of the CONTRATANET) in 
procurement reforms. Other partners include the CAF, GTZ and the EU. The close cooperation 
with other donors will help to provide broad and strong support to key reforms and will reinforce 
and the Bank’s reform program through greater efficiencies and synergies, as explicitly 
requested by the MEF and CAE. 
 
The Bank also has been active in seeking involvement of civil society in project preparation, and 
has carefully assessed the strengths and weaknesses of civil society in Ecuador. Project design 
has benefited from regular meetings with civil society organizations and two major civil society 
consultations. 
 
 
Page  9
 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Financial sustainability of the project is assured as project costs will be more than compensated 
by improved managerial capacity generating fiscal savings and efficiency gains, including 
increased taxpayer compliance, higher efficiency and transparency in the management of 
Customs and procurement, greater control over the wage bill, and improved efficiency in 
selected agencies. Institutional sustainability will be strengthened through a focus on enhanced 
intra- and interinstitutional coordination. Technical sustainability will be enhanced through 
technical assistance for institutional strengthening, capacity-building, and implementation and 
through the support of the Advisory Committees (and in collaboration with other donors, where 
applicable). Social sustainability will be promoted through a highly participatory approach with 
civil society and stakeholder engagement in all project stages, including oversight bodies and 
participatory M&E instruments. Finally, the change management strategy in itself is a powerful 
instrument to ensure project sustainability in all its aspects.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The design of the operation has benefited from best practices and lessons learned from World 
Bank experiences in state reform, in Ecuador, the LAC region and world-wide.  
 
 
Lessons learned
 
 
Application in project preparation 
In-depth analytical work is needed to ensure high quality 
and relevance of project design. 
Extensive policy notes have been prepared parallel to 
project preparation 
Broad-based reforms are often too ambitious and need to 
be better targeted. 
The project focuses on key agencies instead of broader 
reform in the executive and judiciary. 
Institutional reforms, especially in an environment marked 
by strong state capture, need to be tackled incrementally. 
The operation is built on a sequencing strategy that is 
based  on achieving and expanding visible early results.  
Improving the supply side of reforms through institutional 
strengthening in selected reform agencies should be 
supplemented by increasing demand for reforms through 
by engaging  civil society and other stakeholders. 
The project has a highly participatory approach in each of 
its components and as part of project management, 
including different M&E and oversight mechanisms, such 
and a targeted approach to private sector engagement.  
Reforms should be 
accompanied by change management 
measures to reduce resistance and help create a shared 
vision and greater support for reforms. 
The project pioneers change management in Ecuador 
through a strategy of stakeholder engagement to reduce 
resistance, risks and enhance sustainability of reforms 
 
To optimize project design and draw on lessons learned, the team has invested in extensive 
analytical work undertaken parallel to project preparation: background notes on “Foundations for 
Institutional Reform in Ecuador”. For each component – Customs, Procurement, Civil Service – 
a detailed analysis was prepared by team members and external experts which highlight the 
opportunities and constraints of reform. This was complemented by papers on the broader 
conditions of state reform, anti-corruption strategies, the role of civil society, and the lessons of 
past state reforms in Ecuador (including the MOSTA and SIGEF projects).  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
This project triggers none of the Bank’s environmental or social safeguard policies.   
Page  10
 
 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
 
10. Contact point 
Contact: Edgardo Mosqueira Medina 
Title: Sr Public Sector Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-2311 
Fax: (202) 522-3134 
Email: 
emosqueira@worldbank.org
 
 
Contact: Kathrin Plangemann 
Title: Public Sector Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-0301 
Fax: (202) 522-3134 
Email: kplangemann@worldbank.org 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
 
