                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 Report No: 28532 EC




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$20MLLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OFECUADOR

                                                 FORA

                               INSTITUTIONAL REFORMPROJECT

                                              May 26,2004




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagement Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador,PeruandVenezuela CountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                            REPUBLICOF ECUADOR

                                                    FISCALYEAR
                                                January 1-December 31
                                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                                 (Since January 2000)
                                          Currency Unit       =       US dollar

                                           WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                                      Metric System


                             SELECTEDABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS


ALCA    Free Trade Agreementof the Americas (Acuerdo             IADB         Inter-American DevelopmentBank
        de Libre Comercio pura /usAmCricas)                      IBRD         IntemationalBank for Reconstructionand
APL     AdaptableProgramLoan                                                  Development
BCE     CentralBankof Ecuador(Bunco Central del                  ICB          InternationalCompetitiveBidding
        Ecuador)                                                 ICR          ImplementationCompletionReport
CAE     EcuadorianCustomsCorporation (Corporucidn                IESS         EcuadorianInstitutefor Social Security(Institufo
        Aduaneru Ecuutoriunu)                                                 Ecuutoriuno de Seguridud SociuL)
CAS     Country AssistanceStrategy                               IRSISRI      InternalRevenue Services(Serviciode Rentus
CAF     ColporacidnAndina de Foment0                                          Intemus)
cccc    Commission of Civic Control for Corruption               IRP          InstitutionalReformProject
        (Comisidn de Control Civic0 de la Corrupcidn)            ISDS         IntegratedSafeguards DataSheet
CFAA    CountryFinancialand FiduciaryAnalysis                    IT           Information Technology
CGE     ComptrollerGeneralOffice(Contrulonh General              LAC          LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean
        del Estudo)                                              LOAFYC       FinancialAdministration Legislation(Ley
CLD      Latin American Corporationfor Development                             Orgrinicu de Administrucidn Financieru y
         (CorporucidnLatino Americana pura el                                  Control)
         Desurrollo)                                             M&E           MonitoringandEvaluation
CNC      NationalCompetitivenessCouncil (Consejo                 MDAs          Ministries, departments, agencies
        Nucional de Competividud)                                MDGs          Millennium DevelopmentGoals
COMEXI   ForeignTrade and InvestmentCouncil(Consejo              MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance(Ministeriode
         de Comercio Exterior e Inversiones)                                   Economiu y Finunzas)
CONAM    NationalCouncilfor StateModernization                   MOSTA         Modernizationof the StateTechnical Assistance
         (Consejo Nucionul de Modemizucidn del Estudo)                         Loan
CONAREM  NationalCommissionof Remunerations(Consejo              NCB           NationalCompetitiveBidding
         Nacionul de Remuneruciones)                             NFPS          Non-FinancialPublic Sector
COSUDE   Swiss Agency for DevelopmentandCooperation              NGO           Non-govemmental organization
         (Agenciu Suizupura el Desarrollo y la                   OP            Operational Policy
         Cooperacidn-Cooperation Suisse du                       OSCIDI        NationalOffice for InstitutionalDevelopment
         Dkeloppement)                                                         (Oficinu de Servicio Civil y Desurrollo
DIGMER   GeneralDirectorate of the MerchantMarine and                          Institucionul)
         Coasts - Guayaquil PortAuthority (Direccidn              PAD          Project AppraisalDocument
         General de lu Marina Mercante)                          PCN           Project Concept Note
DO       DevelopmentObjective                                     PCU          Project CoordinationUnit
EU       EuropeanUnion                                            PER          Public Expenditure Review
FCCGL    FiscalConsolidationandCompetitiveGrowth                  PERHD        Programfor EconomicRestructuringandHuman
         Loan I,I1                                                             Development
FEIREP   Fundfor Stabilization, Investment, and Public            PetroEcuador State-ownedPetroleumCompany
         DebtReduction(Fondo de Estubilizacidn,                   PETS         Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys
         Inversidn Social y Productiva y Reduccidn del            PDO          Project DevelopmentObjectives
         EndeudamientoPu'blico)                                   PID          Project Information Document
FM       FinancialManagement                                      PCU          ProjectCoordinationUnit
FMA      FinancialManagementAssessment                            QCBS         Quality andcost-basedselection
FMR      FinancialMonitoring Report                               RO           Official Register(Registro Oficial)
FTA      Free Trade Agreement                                     RVP          RegionalVice-presidency
GDP      Gross DomesticProduct                                    SA           SpecialAccount
GOE      Govemmentof Ecuador                                      SALT0        StructuralAdjustment LiberalizationTask Order
GTZ      German TechnicalCooperation- Gesellschaftfur             SBA          Stand-By Arrangement
         TechnischeZusammenarbeit                                 SBD          StandardBiddingDocuments
HR       HumanResources
HRM      HumanResourcesManagement

                                                                          FOROF'FICLALUSEONLY




  SENDA        National Secretaryfor Administrative              SOEs        Statement of Expenditures
               Development(Secretanh Nacional de Desarrollo      TAL         Technical Assistance Loan
               Administrativo)                                   TE          SpecialAccount (Cuenta Transitoriade Recursos
  SENRES       National Technical Secretariatfor Human                       Exremos)
               ResourceDevelopmentandRemuneration                TG          Local CounterpartAccount (Cuenta Transitoria
               (Secretaria Nacional Ticnica de Desarrollo de                 de Recursos del Gobiemo)
               Recursos Humanos y Remuneraciones del Sector      TI          TransparencyInternationalChapterof Ecuador,
               Publico)                                                      Civic Participation
  SIGADE       IntegratedDebt ManagementSystem(Sistemade          TR          Payment Account
               Gestidn y Administracidn de Deuda)                 TTL         Task Team Leader
  SIGEF        IntegratedGovernmentFinancialManagement            URHIs       HumanResourcesAdministrativeUnits
               System(SistemaIntegrado de Gestidn                 USAID       United States Agency for International
               Financiera)                                                    Development
  SIGRH        National Information Systemof Institutional        VAT         Value-addedtax
               Development, HumanResourcesandPublic               WBI         World Bank Institute
               SectorRemunerations(Sistema Integradode            WTO         World TradeOrganization
               Administracidn de RecursosHumanos)




                                               Vice President: Davidde Ferranti
                                            CountryDirector:  MarceloGiugale
                                              Sector Director: ErnestoMay
                                              Sector Manager:  RonaldMyers

                                         Task TeamLeaders:     EdgardoMosqueira
                                                               KathrinA. Plangemann



   This operation was preparedby a World Bank team composed of Messrs./Mmes.E. Mosqueira, K. Plangemann,J.
   Frank,C. Machicado, J. Rinne, E. Simon, S. Alborta-Hudson(LCSPS);M.Andrade, N.Brune, G. Durand, E. Fanta,
   C. Olle, B. Merino, J. Salazar, G. Shepherd, A. del Villar, (Consultants, LCSPS); J. Lopez-Calix (LCSPE), P.
   Larreamendy (LCCEC), R. Senderowitsch (LCSPR), F. Braun (Consultant, LCSPR), W. Reuben (LCSEO), A.
   Silva-Leander (SDV), F. Altimari, E. Brito (LEGLA), X. Morel (LOAG3); P. M c Kenzie (LCOAA), A. Jimenez
   (Consultant, LCOAA), K. Alfaro, M. Osorio (LCOPR), G. Reid (ECSPE), F. Recanatini (WBIGG), M. Zold
   (Consultant,INT). PeerReviewers:Y. Matsuda(LCSPS),E. Campos (PRMPS), R.Pinto (AFTPR).

   This team was ledby MessrsIMmes.EdgardoMosqueiraandKathrinA. Plangemann(LCSPS, Task Managers), and
   worked under the general guidanceof Messrs. Marcelo Giugale (Director, LCC6C), Vicente Fretes-Cibils(Lead
   Economistand Sector Leader,LCC6C), ErnestoMay (Director, LCSPR), RonaldMyers(SectorManager,LCSPS),
   andMcDonaldBenjamin(Country Manager,LCCEC).




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                                       ECUADOR
                                            ECInstitutionalReform

                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                   Page
A.  STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                            ..................................................................       6
 1.  COUNTRYAND SECTORISSUES                   .............................................................................................. 6
 2.  RATIONALE     FOR BANKINVOLVEMENT                      .................................................................................. 9
                                                                                                                                                      9
B
.3 . HIGHERLEVEL      OBJECTIVESTO WHICHTHEPROJECTCONTRIBUTES                                               ......................................
    PROJECT DESCRIPTION                    ................................................................................................          10
 1 . LENDING   INSTRUMENT         ........................................................................................................           10
 2. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY INDICATORS                                         ................................................. 10
                                                                                                                                                     11
 4. LESSONS
 3. PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................................................................
               LEARNED AND REFLECTEDINTHE PROJECTDESIGN                                           .............................................      16


C IMPLEMENTATION.
 .5. ALTERNATIVES      CONSIDEREDAND REASONS FORREJECTION                                       ............................................... 16
                                  ........................................................................................................           17
 1.  PARTNERSHIP     ARRANGEMENTS               ........................................................................................... 17
 2. INS~TIONAL         AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                                     ................................................... 17
                     AND                                                                                                                              18
 4.
 3. MONITORING EVALUATION OF OUTCOMES/RESULTS ...................................................
     S U S T A I N A ~ ~ ................................................................................................................. 18
                         ~ ~ Y
 5. CRITICAL    RISKS AND POSSIBLECONTROVERSIALASPECTS                                      .................................................. 18
 6. LOAN~REDIT       CONDITIONS           AND COVENANTS                ...................................................................... 19
D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                    ..................................................................................................          20
                                                             ............................................................................... 20
 2. TECHNICAL .........................................................................................................................
 1.  ECONOMICAND FINANCIAL                 ANALYSES
                                                                                                                                                      20

 4. SOCIAL ...............................................................................................................................
 3. FIDUCIARY..........................................................................................................................               20
                                                                                                                                                      21
 5. ENVIRONMENT       ....................................................................................................................            21
 6.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES           .........................................................................................................           21
 7. POLICY EXCEPTIONSAND READINESS................................................................................                                    22
ANNEX 1:COUNTRYAND SECTORORPROGRAMBACKGROUND                                                                              .........................   23
ANNEX 2: MAJOR RELATEDPROJECTS FINANCEDBYTHE BANKAND/OR
OTHERAGENCIES          ...................................................................................................................            28
ANNEX 3: RESULTSFRAMEWORKAND MONITORING                                                         ...............................................       31
ANNEX 4: DETAILEDPROJECT DESCRIPTION                                            ..............................................................        43
ANNEX 5: PROJECT COSTS                  ...................................................................................................           51
ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS                                                 ..........................................................        52
ANNEX 7: FINANCIALMANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS53
ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS                                            .................................................................         57


                                                                                                                                                       4

ANNEX 9. ECONOMICAND FINANCIALANALYSIS                                  ......................................................  67
ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARDPOLICYISSUES                  ..........................................................................     70
ANNEX 11:PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION                                          ........................................... 71
ANNEX 12:DOCUMENTSINTHE PROJECTFILE                               ...........................................................   72
ANNEX 13: STATEMENTOFLOANSAND CREDITS                                  .......................................................  73
ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE              .................................................................................    74
ANNEX 15: MULTISTAKEHOLDERCONSULTATIONS                                       ................................................. 76

Figures:
Figure 1. The Government's Public Sector Reform Strategy
Figure 2. Tax and Non-Tax Revenue o f Central Government (% GDP) andImportant Tax
Reform Efforts, 1964-2002
Figure 3. Government Effectiveness (LAC, 2000-2001)

Tables:
Table 1.Project Development Objective and Key Indicators
Table 2. Criteria for Selection of Components
Table 3. Risks and Mitigation Measures
Table 4. Progress inthe Government's Program supported by the FCCGL-I in2003
Table 5. Governance indicators for Ecuador (World Bank Institute, WBI)
Table 6: RelatedWorld BankProjects
Table 7. Projects andPrograms of Other Donors in the Area o f State Reform
Table 8. ImplementationArrangements per Component
Table 9. Project Structure

ProcurementTables:
Table A: Allocation o f Proceeds

Boxes:
Box 1.The Programfor Economic Restructuring and HumanDevelopment (PEHRD)




                                                                                                                                 5

                                        ECUADOR

                                EC INSTITUTIONAL REFORM

                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                             LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                          LCSPS

  Date:May 28,2004                             Team Leaders: Edgardo Mosqueira Medina
                                               and Kathrin Plangemann
  Country Director: Marcel0 Giugale            Sectors: General public administration sector
  Sector Mangermirector: RonaldE.Myers         (50%); Centralgovernmentadministration
                                               (50%)
                                               Themes: Administrative and civil service
                                               reform (P);Otheraccountability/anti-corruption
                                               (P)
  Project ID: P085302Not
              Environmental
                    screening
                     category:
                                               Required


  [X] Loan    [ ] Credit  [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

  For Loans/Credits/Others:
  Total Bank financing (US$m.): 20.00



  BORROWER                                                         0.00              4.00
FOR
  INTERNATIONAL
      BANK                                       10.00            10.00             20.00
  RECONSTRUCTION AND
  DEVELOPMENT
  Total:                                         14.00            10.00             24.00

  Borrower:
  Ministerio de Economiay Finanzas
  Avenida 10 deDiciembre
  Quito
  Ecuador

  ResponsibleAgency:
  Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
  Ecuador
  dmancheno@mef.gov.ec

                           Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
;Y             2005      2006      2007     2008          0        0          0         0       0
4nnual           4.00      7.00     6.00       3.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
hmulative        4.00     11.00    17.00      20.00      20.00     20.00      20.00    20.00   20.00




I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                           [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                           [XIYes [ ]No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Ref.PAD 0.7                                                                            [XIYes [ ]No
   u
Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
Customs, procurement, civil service, and selectedservices are more efficient, effective,
transparent, and accountable. Reformed areas constitute models of state modernization to be
expandedto other public sector areas.

Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component 1-CustomsReform. The objective is to enhanceefficiency and transparencyof
Customsby improving service-delivery for users and strengthening collection, inspection and
compliance. Component 2- ProcurementReform. The objective i s to expand access and enhance
transparency, efficiency and competitiveness of procurement. Component 3-Professional Civil
Service Management. The objective is to enhanceefficiency and transparency inthe
managementof the civil service by developing the capacity of central government to monitor
and managethe number, skills, remuneration andprofessionalism of its employees. Component
4 -Efficiency andAccountabilityin SelectedPublic Agencies. The objective of this component
i s to improve efficiency and to simplify service provision and management in selectedagencies.
To select these agencies, particular eligibility criteria, including fiscal, social, management and
efficiency indicators, will be specified inadvance. Component 5 -Change Management. The
objective i s to createthe conditions necessaryfor successfulimplementation and sustainability of
the project.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
This project triggers none of the Bank's environmental or social safeguardpolicies.

 Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Board presentation:
n/a

Loadcredit effectiveness:
Conditions precedent for effectiveness of the Loan Agreement for this Project are the following:
(a) the Operational Manualhas been issued and adopted by the Borrower and approved by the
Bank; and (b) the financial management system for the Project has been established and adopted
by the Borrower, ina manner satisfactory to-the Bank.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
d a


A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsectorissues

Ecuador is still recovering from one of the most serious economic crises in its history.
Following the Asian crisis, a steep fall in oil prices, and the negative impact of El Niiio,
from 1997 onwards the country had serious problems balancing revenue and
expenditures. In 1999, the fiscal deficit reached 6.7 percent of GDP. Nearly half the
banking sector, which in previous years had lent imprudently, collapsed. The severity of
the fiscal crisis, high inflation, a debt default in 1998, and the devaluation of the domestic
currency, led the government to officially dollarize inJanuary 2000. The social impact of
the crisis was considerable: unemployment rose from 10to 15 percent and half a million
people emigrated to findjobs abroad. The poverty rate increasedby 7 percent injust the
first two years of the crisis (1998-99). Particularly severe was the impact on urban
poverty, with the number of poor increasing from 1.1 million to 3.5 million. Frequently
changing governments and a high turn-over of key ministers illustrate the corresponding
political instability inthe country.

Since 2000, however, Ecuador has achieved important progress in stabilizing the
economy by restoring.price stability, growth, and confidence in the financial system. In
2003, growth reached 3 percent and inflation declined from 9.4 percent in 2002 to 6.1
percent. The NFPS primary surplus increasedfrom 4.5 percent of GDPin 2002 to about 5
percent in 2003. As a result, the fiscal surplus doubled to about 2 percent of GDP. Real
salary levels and unemployment rates are now back to 1998 levels.

Ecuador i s now at a critical juncture, facing crucial challenges and choices.' It can
capitalize on the progress achieved in previous years and further commit itself to fiscal
discipline, state reform, greater efficiency and transparency in public management, and
improved service delivery. Or it can return to fiscal profligacy and speculate that
international oil prices will remainhighenough to avoid a new economic crisis.

The GutiCrrez Administration, which took office in January 2003, has committed itself to
further economic, political, and governance reforms in the Program for Economic
Restructuring and Human Development (PERHD; Annex 1). Under its economic pillar,
the PERHD seeks to improve fiscal discipline, stimulate production and commerce,
improve basic infrastructure, strengthen financial markets, and create more flexible and
competitive labor markets. The social pillar pursues reforms in education, health, and
social assistance to fight poverty more effectively. Finally, the governance pillar aims at
combating corruption, improving public service delivery and transparency, and
increasing overall security. The reform agenda i s supported by a Stand-By Arrangement
(SBA)with the IMF.



' See the analysis in the background policy notes prepared as part o f the preparation of this project:
"Foundations for Institutional Reform in Ecuador," Washington, D.C., May 2004.


                                                                                                        6

Public sector reform and service improvement will be key to overcoming the challenges
highlighted in the PERHD. State capture, rent-seeking, weak accountability and
transparency have adversely affected growth and poverty outcomes. The government
loses an estimated one-third of its tax income through corruption, although recent reforms
indicate the situation is improving. Companies report having to pay an additional 15
percent of total contract cost to win public bids. Low transparency also works as a
regressivetax on the most poor andvulnerable which are often most seriously affected by
corruption and poor service delivery. Households report paying bribes to public officials
for selectedpublic services in41 percent of cases.2

A civil service markedby inefficiencies and a lack of transparency is not only a burden
for fiscal accounts, but also limits the capacity of government to improve the coverage
and quality of public services. Dollarization imposes new constraints as fiscal policy is
the only means for steering the economy, underscoring the need to balance revenue and
expenditures. IfEcuador wants to achieve economic growth, sustain dollarization, be
competitive inthe global economy, and reach the MDGs, it has to improve the efficiency
and transparency of public managementand the quality of service delivery.

The government has made progress inreformingservices ina few "islands of efficiency."
So far, these efforts have focused on the revenue side. A successful reform has been
implemented in the tax administration agency (SRI). The streamlining of procedures,
introduction of electronic transactions, and improved services for taxpayers have resulted
in heightened tax compliance (e.g. tax revenue in the first quarter of 2003 increasedby
7.5 percent compared to the first quarter of 2002). This reform constitutes an important
step forward for Ecuador, demonstrating very powerfully that institutional reform i s
possible. Basedon the PERHD, the Gutikrrez administration now seeks to extend public
sector reform to new areas, in particular Customs, procurement, civil service, and other
selectedpublic services and organizations (Figure 1).

Figure 1.The Government's Public Sector Reform Strategy to be supported by the IRP


    First-Phase Reform:                                      Intended Second-Phase
    2000 2003
         -                                                   Reform: 2004 onwards


                                       Customs Reform: CAE


                                       Procurement Reform: CONTRATANET                participation


    Authority (SRI)                    Civil Service Reform: SENRES


                                       Reform of selected public services, e.g.       Management
                                       Civil Registry, PETROECUADOR




  Seligson, Mitchell A.; Recanatini, Francesca: The Environment and Governance and Corruption, in:
Fretes-Cibils, Vicente; Giugale, Marcel0 M.; Lopez-Calix, Jose-Roberto (ed.): Ecuador. An Economic and
Social Agenda in the New Millennium,World Bank, Washington DC, p.411-443.

The reform of the Ecuadorian Customs Administration (CAE) has a central role in this
strategy. The CAE has designed a draft Modernization Plan that includes strengthening
the role of the SRIon the CAE board, greater access to crosscheck import bills and CAE
taxpayer information, stiffer penalties for the understatement of imports, and improved
border controls (see Annex 4). These combined efforts will ensure improved service-
delivery for Customs clients, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises that
lose resources due to delays in Customs clearance and the payment of bribes. Customs
reform will not only reduce fiscal losses `due to inefficiencies and corruption, but also
facilitate trade integration and competitiveness-a    pre-condition to conclude the Free
Trade Agreements (FTA) with the UnitedStates, MERCOSUR andthe EUin2005.

Another important area of service delivery improvement is to create a transparent and
efficient procurement system, where corruption now leads to a loss of public resources.
In 2003, an Executive Decree made the use of the electronic procurement system
CONTRATANET mandatory for all public agencies. Developed under the leadership of
the Anti-Corruption Commission (CCCC) - a constitutionally mandated organization
composed of civil society representatives - all public institutions now have to publish
electronically their procurement offers and the documents underlying the procurement
process. Once CONTRATANET is transformed into a transactional system, bidding
documents will be published, and bidders and their offers will be registered. The new
draft Procurement Law and the recently passedLaw on Access to Information will also
help eliminate exemptions andloopholes, and define clear standards andreferenceprices.
The state oil company Petroecuador, which accounts for 70 percent of government
purchases, has been selectedas a pilot entity to introduce the new transactional system.

Personnel management reform i s another key component of the reform agenda. In2003,
Congress approved a Civil Service and Salary Unification Law. The National Technical
Secretariat for Human Resources Development and Remuneration in the Public Sector
(SENRES) andthe HumanResourcesAdministrative Units (URHIs) ineach government
agency are responsible for implementing the new law. Management reforms will help the
government to regain control over the wage bill, and contribute to a more effective,
efficient, professional and accountablecivil service.

The government has also committed to reforming selected services that have a broad-
based impact on citizens, such as the civil registry, small business registration, the
authorizations provided by the national agency for food and drug administration
(Registro Suniturio) and selected social programs.        More efficient and transparent
service-delivery would not only reduce transaction costs, but also barriers to market
entry, particularly for small and medium-sized businesses, leading to greater competition.

While the benefits of state reform are evident, the government's strategy faces serious
challenges. Efficiency-enhancing reform threatens the interests of those who have a
stake in the status quo. Whereas the "losers" of the intended reforms often are a
concentrated group, the "winners" - such as general citizens and taxpayers - are
dispersed and therefore difficult to mobilize. State reform needs to produce some quick
and visible results to demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of reform. It requires



                                                                                        8

strategic decision-making, careful sequencing and a close engagement with stakeholders
through change management. It also demands political leadership, commitment and
ownership to design, implement, and sustain reform.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

Bank involvement i s tailored to respond closely both to government requests to support
key reforms and to the Bank's country assistance strategy expressed in the CAS. In
particular, three factors have generateda positive momentum for reform and the Bank's
involvement in Ecuador. First, following the SRI reforms, demand is growing to tackle
the expenditure and efficiency side of the public sector, particularly in procurement and
civil service management. Second, there is an important shift inthe incentive framework
facing policy makers. Trade, global competition and dollarization send signals to
authorities to reform the public sector and achieve transparency and efficiency, rather
than relying mainly on oil income. Finally, the Ministry of Economy and Finance -under
stronger and more stable leadership than inprevious governments -i s committed to state
reform, primarily for efficiency and fiscal reasons, helpingbuildstrong ownership.

The Bank i s seizing the momentum for reform and will support the government in its
reform efforts. The close policy dialogue across all major development areas has been
reflected in the CAS, the Ecuador Policy Notes and the expanding lending portfolio,
particularly the two Programmatic Loans related to this project. This gives the Bank not
only a strong role as a "knowledge bank" in Ecuador, but also the role of a catalyst for
further reforms, especially in politically sensitive and complex areas. The Bank can
leverage support from other donors, such as USAID, and will coordinate implementation
closely with other agencies such as the IADB (refer to Annex 2). The Bank can also
share knowledge and experiences from other countries and foster a debate on new and
innovative ways of designing and implementing institutionalreforms. Finally, the Bank's
previous involvement in institutional reforms in Ecuador includes important lessons
learned from an earlier institutional reformproject, MOSTA, carried out from 1996-2000.

3. Higher levelobjectivesto which the project contributes

The higher level objective of the operation is to contribute to greater transparency,
efficiency and accountability by helping to improve public revenue, expenditure
management capacity and service delivery. The proposed project supports the
Government in the implementation of the PERHD (Annex l),              which seeks to fight
corruption and improve public service delivery and transparency in Customs,
procurement, civil service, and selectedservices.

The proposed project also supports the objectives of the 2003 Ecuador CAS. It is
consistent with the thirdpillar of the CAS aimed at strengthening governance and helping
officials build an accountable and efficient government that provides services accessible
to all Ecuadorians. Likewise, it contributes to its first pillar, which aims at consolidating
the macroeconomic framework to lay the foundation for sustainable growth and poverty
reduction. In addition, it builds on the CFAA and CPAR recommendations, which have



                                                                                            9

shown that the lack of transparency and efficiency are key obstacles to achieving social
and economic development.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The proposed lendinginstrument for this operation is a Specific Investment Loan. This
instrument has been chosen because of the investment focus of the operation and the
flexibility it provides. Although a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) would help to build
institutional capacity, it would not allow for the strong investment focus of this operation
and structural reforms it supports.       The proposed investment loan will enable the
government to implement reforms to which it has committed itself under the fiscal and
social programmatic loans of the Bank. In particular, the proposed loan supports the set
of Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Loans, that aim at establishing
institutional sector policy changes, which include Customs, civil service, budget
transparency, and procurement reforms.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkeyindicators


Project Development           (i) Customs,procurement,civilservice,andselected
                                 The
Objective                     services are more efficient, effective, transparent, and
                              accountable.
                           0  (ii)Reformedareas constitute models of state modernization
                              to be expanded to other public sector areas.
Key Indicators             0  (i) andinternalevaluationsandusersurveysshow
                                 External
                              improved service delivery inkey areas.
                           0  (ii) accesstoinformation,transparencyandregular
                                  Greater
                              reporting regardingthe operation of reformedareas.
                           0  (iii)Competitive, meritocratic selection of human resourcesin
                              implementationagencies.
                           0  (iv) Civil society monitoring and evaluation mechanisms are
                              usedto improve service delivery.

The project will also monitor progress towards the Project Development Objective
through each of the components. For example, indicators employed are, inthe case of the
Customs Component, a reduction in Customs clearance time to 10percent of the baseline
as well as a reduction of 75 percent of the differential import gap within three years. In
the Procurement Component, progress indicators require publishing 100 percent of
government procurement processes in the second year, and that 100 percent of central
government agencies operate with the a new CONTRATANET transactional system in
the fourth year (refer to Annex 3 for details).




                                                                                           10

3. Project components

The project has five components: (1) Customs Reform; (2) Procurement Reform; (3)
Professional Civil Service; (4) Efficiency and Accountability in Selected Public
Agencies; and (5) Change Management (see Annex 4 for a detailed description of
components).

The first four components are the key investment pillars. The complementary fifth
component i s designedto ensure effective project implementation across components and
to help mitigate risks and to support project sustainability. It includes overall project
management, monitoring and evaluation, civil society participation and specific change
managementinstruments, includingconsensus-building andcommunication strategies.

a. Descriptionof Components

Component 1. CustomsReform


The objective is to enhance efficiency and transparency of Customs by improving
service-delivery for users and strengthening collection, inspection and compliance. In
particular, this component aims to: (a) strengthen control and internal auditing systems
and procedures, including greater control of merchandise and technological upgrades to
detect VAT evasion, contraband and fraud; (b) promote greater coordination with SRIon
joint auditing of large taxpayers; (c) improve human resource management systems, and
establish a "retirement plan" for the current inspection team inorder to bringin qualified
auditors; (d) enhance coordination between Customs and the Port Authority to improve
Customs oversight and establish port-security systems; (e) reduce valuations and
gradually eliminate the existing pre-shipment certificates; and (f) establish an oversight
commission on Customs reforms for civil society organizations to monitor reform
progress (ObsewatorioAduanero).

The target group focuses on officials of the Customs Authority and users of Customs
services. As a result (outcome), users will receive more effective and efficient services
and Customs will improve collection systems and taxpayer compliance. The inputs are
automation and technological upgrades, port security systems and technical assistancefor
organizational reforms, streamlining of procedures and the preparationof a draft Customs
restructuring law and the Customs modernization plan (Annex 4). The outputs will be
effective control, auditing andhuman resource systems, and a civil society observatory.

Component2. Procurement Reform

The objective i s to expand access and enhance transparency, efficiency and
competitiveness of public procurement.       This component will (a) provide technical
assistance to support the enactmentof key legislation, such as a revised Procurement Law
(reforms to Law No. 95) and an Electronic Public Transactions Law (including the
implementation of some of the measures of the 2000 reform package); (b) provide
training on project administration and electronic procurement, including the



                                                                                        11

establishment of a national knowledge-sharing expert network; (c) elaborate and help
implement an Ethics Code for procurement; (d) expand coverage of the
CONTRATANET (software built-in) by converting it from an informational to a
transactional procurement system, and fully implement the National Contractor Register
system by including all institutions with transactional public services; (e) establish
performance audits with a focus on pre-contractual stages; (f) provide training on new
forms of procurement; (8) improve the national system of accreditation on procurement,
including both the private and public sectors; (h) establish a procurement regulatory
agency, including strengthening coordination between various agencies involved in
procurement by creating a Consejo de Compras (with membership of CCCC,
Comptroller General's Office, Attorney General's Office, and MEF); (i)   audit the annual
and multi-annual procurement plans of public entities; and (i) audit payments and
crosscheck with bidsunder the systemof "licitaciones ".

Employees in charge of procurement in each public agency as well as the users of this
service constitute the main target group. The result (outcome) of this component will be
an improved ratio of cost/quality of goods and services purchased by government. The
inputs to the component are software development for a new transactional system,
training of staff in implementing agencies and of users in the use of the system, and
technical assistance for organizational reforms in procurement (including performance
audits, accreditation and the design of a new legal framework). Expected outputs include
a transactional procurement system (including greater coverage and access), a revised
legal framework, anda functioning public procurement regulatory agency.

Component3. Professional Civil ServiceManagement

The objective is to enhance efficiency and transparency in the management of the civil
service by developing the capacity of central government to monitor and manage the
number, skills, remuneration and professionalism of its employees. This component
seeks to: (a) develop a human resource management (HRM) database system linked to
select personnel procedures, to SIGEF, and to the electronic payroll system established
by the Central Bank; (b) strengthen professional human resource selection, evaluation
and oversight mechanisms, by implementing civil service reforms in four pilot
departments, inparticular through their URHIs; and (c) improve transparency and access
to information through dissemination of summary statistics through the SENRES
website.

The target group is the human resource agency SENRES and the officials in charge of
human resource management in each public agency. As a result (outcome), central
government officials will be able to access real time data on staff composition, estimate
future staffing needs, evaluate the fiscal impact of proposed salary changes, monitor
personnel selection and evaluation procedures, define capacity-building needs, and
manage staff allocations. The inputs to the component include software development, IT
hardware, and training in human resource management. The output will be a modern
human resources management (HRM) database and oversight of staff selection and
evaluationproceduresinpilot departmentsfor replicationthroughout central government.



                                                                                      12

The government has also signaled interest in funding severance payments for public
employees through this operation. The World Bank will coordinate with the government
and IADBto ensure that this requestis duly considered.

Component4. EfSiciency and Accountability in SelectedPublicAgencies

The objective of this component is to improve efficiency and to simplify service
provision and management in selected agencies. To select these agencies, particular
eligibility criteria, including fiscal, social, management and efficiency indicators, will be
specified in ad~ance.~Candidate agencies will develop a reform plan consistent with the
guidelines set forth in the Operational Manual. The component will support: (a)
simplification of administrative procedures; (b) institutional reengineering; (c) a change
of management style towards greater client-orientation; (d) human resource and
procurement reforms; and/or (e) citizen evaluation mechanisms, where applicable.

Public officials of these agencies and agency users will constitute the key target group.
As a result (outcome), selected entities will operate more efficiently and transparently
and provide improved service delivery. The inputs to the component are procedural
and/or organizational reforms, e-government, and training for enhanced institutional
capacity. Expected outputs are reduced transaction costs, more effective and efficient
service delivery, and management improvements resultingingreater fiscal savings.

Component 5. ChangeManagement

The objective is to create the conditions necessary for successful implementation and
sustainability of the project. The component supports (a) project management; (b)
monitoring and evaluation; (c) civil society participation; and (d) change management.
The target group includes public officials in charge of implementing the project, both at
the political as well as technical level (those delivering services), and other internal and
external stakeholders, including from both the private sector and civil society. The result
(outcome) will be that the project is managedand monitored effectively and that a greater
consensus for reform i s built andsustained.

The inputs include training, workshops, consultancies, M&E support and communication
strategies. The outputs include a project management unit that effectively manages the
project, a well-functioning M&E system, greater participation of civil society in project
design, implementation and monitoring, and effective change management strategies that
helpcreate, communicate andinstitutionalize greater support for reforms.




 Examples of requests for agencies to be reformed under this loan are the Civil Registry, the Sanitary
Registry, Office for BusinessLicenses, and the state enterprise PETROECUADOR.


                                                                                                   13

b. Selection of Components: Strategy

Table 2. Criteria or Selection of Compo ents
   Component       Incentive for Reform     Strategic Importance         Stakeholders of
                                                                              Reform
 1: Customs        Trade integration.     Reformimplies important     MEF.
Reform             Competitiveness.       victory over a captured     SRI.
                   Fiscal revenue.        agency. Success gives the   Small- and medium-
                   User demands for       government political        sized enterprises.
                   better and faster      credibility to enter other
                   services.              areas of state reform.
2: Procurement     Expenditure control.   Reform severs symbiotic     MEF.
Reform             Greater demands for    relationshipbetween         cccc.
                   quality improvements   government officials and    Small- and medium-
                   andmore competition    certain well-placed private sized enterprises.
                   inprivatesector with   enterprises.
                   improved access to
                   mblic contracts.
 3: Professional   Payroll control.       Reform implies              MEF.
~




 Civil Service     Needfor institutional  managementchanges           SENRES.
                   strengthening of key   within the state apparatus, Directors of public
                   institutions.          which help to improve       agencies.
                                          service delivery.
4: Efficiency      Needfor more           Reform promises             Management and
 and               efficient management,  government quick results    users of selected
 Accountability    simplified procedures, inhighly visible areas to be agencies.
 inSelected        greater transparency.  replicated elsewhere.       All citizens.
 Public Agencies   Users demandbetter     Can create broader support
                   service delivery.      from stakeholderskitLzens.

 The strategy of the proposed project i s to capitalize on the progress made in improving
 tax administration and fiscal management and to expand to other reform areas,
 particularly on the expenditure side. The SRI constitutes a key entry point, not only
 because of its links to Customs (overseen by the joint SRI-CAE board), but also by the
 progress demonstrated in human resource management and service-delivery in the
 previous reforms. On this basis, the following high impact areas have been selected: (i)
 Customs, where the government loses important fiscal revenue; (ii) resourcehuman
 management, the largest recurrent expenditure and a key area for improving service
 delivery; (iii)procurement, where government loses precious resources due to limited
 transparency and efficiency; and (iv) selected areas, where improved service-delivery
 will create positive fiscal and social impacts and will engender citizen support for
 reforms.

 Greater efficiency and transparency in public sector management will help not only to
 generate more revenue, but also to improve the quality of public expenditure and to
 promote higher growth and competitiveness. It also make the state more responsive and
 accountable to the needs of the citizens and improve service delivery, ultimately leading
 to greater poverty reduction.



                                                                                         14

The strategy of the project reflects the fact that state reform requires strong champions.
The idea is to create winners of reform - efficiency and transparency champions - that
have an interest in maintaining the changes promoted. The operation takes into account
the fact that the private sector (particularly small-and medium sized enterprises) and
specific public agencies such as the Anti-Corruption Commission (CCCC) and MEF are
key players with an interest in transparency and efficiency reforms.            Once these
stakeholders obey the new rules of the game, they will raise the cost for those players
who have incentives to break the new rules. The involvement of civil society i s intended
to create and expand pressure for reform implementation. B y creating civil society
oversight committees and monitoring tools (such as citizen scorecards in procurement
and selected service-delivery), and by promoting the use of participatory Public
Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS), users and citizens at large will have formal means
to increase their leverage over policymakers and hold them accountable for the results
produced.

State reform also requires sufficient capacity and demand for change. Civil service
reform will improve this capacity within the public administration. Both internal and
external change thus need to work in coordinated fashion to ensure that incentives are
mutually reinforcing. This requires a careful sequencing of reforms, based upon an
incremental strategy, starting in a few high impact reform areas and then expanding to
other areas on the basis of visible reform progress. The goal i s to create sustainable
reform and, through institutional strengthening and change management, help
government achieve the intended second-level of reform - one that not only focuses on
raising more revenue, but also on a more effective deployment of expenditures.

Given the expectedhigh level of vested interests and potential opposition, the operation is
applying innovative reform management tools to build greater consensus and buy-in for
the proposed reforms through a strong emphasis on change management (Component 5).
On the basis of a diagnostics of the status quo, obstacles and the creation of a sense of
urgency, this component will help engage key different stakeholders to develop a shared
vision of reforms. It will also buildgreater consensus and communicate the benefits and
progress of reforms to institutionalize reforms, ultimately helping create greater
sustainability of on-going and increasedemand for additional reforms.

c. Sector Issues

The operation tackles the principal problems of inefficient provision of services and the
loss of fiscal revenuedue to inefficiencies and corruption. InCustoms, procurement, and
select public services efficiency will be promoted through the streamlining of procedures
and organizational reengineering. This will create savings in service delivery and reduce
opportunities for corruption. This i s complemented by the use of electronic instruments
andprocedures (HRMdatabase, E-government, E-services) that reduce the possibilityfor
individuals to alter or evade the rules of the game, thus raisingthe cost of corruption.

At the same time, the reforms will create and enhance competition and thereby reduce
rent-seeking opportunities that originate in lack of transparency. By broadening access to
services, in particular with regards to procurement, small and medium-sized enterprises


                                                                                         15

will benefit from their participation indoing business with the state. Customs reform is
also intended to achieve more trade and competitiveness in the domestic arena. The
resultingcompetition will create incentives to adhere to clearly defined rules of the game.

The operation will also heighten taxpayer compliance by promotingstronger enforcement
andclosing loop-holes. Inthe Customs component, for instance,joint audits by SRIand
CAE will make tax evasion more difficult for companies. In procurement, bidders can
only qualify if they have paid all taxes that are due. The creation of social accountability
mechanisms such as civil society oversight committees, public expenditure tracking
surveys (PETS), management contracts and citizen scorecards will help give greater
voice to civil society and increasedemand for reforms.

4. Lessonslearned andreflectedinthe project design




                    Lessons learned                                    Applicationinprojectpreparation
In-depth analytical work is needed to ensure high quality Extensive policy notes have been prepared parallel to
andrelevanceof project design.                            I     project preparation.
 ~~

Broad-basedreforms are often too ambitious and need to The project focuses on key agencies instead of broader
be better targeted.                                             reform inthe executive andjudiciary.
                                                                                                            ~    ~~~

Institutional reforms, especially in an environment marked The operation is built on a sequencing strategy that i s
by strong state capture, need to be tackled incrementally.      basedon achieving andexpanding visible early results.

Improving the supply side of reforms through institutional The project has a highly participatory approach in eachof
strengthening in selected reform agencies should be its components and as part of project management,
supplementedby increasing demand for reforms through                       different M&E and oversight mechanismsand a
by engagingcivil society and other stakeholders.              ,, including
                                                                 targeted approachto private sector engagement.

In a high-risk environment, it is necessary to design and The project pioneers change management in Ecuador
implement a strong strategy to reduce risks and to build through a strategy of stakeholder engagement to reduce
project sustainability.                                          resistance, risks and enhance sustainability of reforms.


To optimize project design and draw on lessons learned, the team has invested in
extensive analytical work undertaken parallel to project preparation: background notes on
"Foundations for Institutional Reform in Ecuador." For each component - Customs,
Procurement, Civil Service - a detailed analysis was prepared by team members and
external experts, which highlight the opportunities and constraints of reform. This was
complemented by papers on the broader conditions of state reform, anti-corruption
strategies, the role of civil society, and the lessons of past state reforms in Ecuador
(including the MOSTA and SIGEFprojects).

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

In the course of preparing the project several alternative approaches were considered.
One alternative was a project with a strong anti-corruption focus. The team decided not
to opt for this alternative because of the limited opportunities for tangible results and the
expected resistance to implement reforms. A second alternative consisted of a broader


                                                                                                                         16

public sector reform, includingthe Comptroller General's Office, but impacts would have
been limited due to a lack of focus and the proposed incremental approach would have
significantly raised implementation challenges. A third alternative would have been a
project focusing exclusively on Customs or civil service reforms. However, such an
approach would have been too narrow to create necessary reform synergies and would
not have generatedthe same demandfor additional, broad-basedreforms.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

In preparation for this operation, the Bank has engaged in a close dialogue on
institutionalreforms with other donors and civil society, including the participants of the
"Mesa de Gobernabilidad". As a result of this donor coordination, specific partnership
arrangements will be created to support the proposed project. USAID will work in close
cooperation with the Bank and will support the Planfor Customs Cooperation. The Bank
andthe IADB will coordinate closely their work on civil servicereforms. The Bank will
also cooperate with COSUDE (which financed the first stage of the CONTRATANET) in
procurement reforms. Other partners include the CAF, GTZ and the EU. The close
cooperation with other donors will help to provide broad and strong support to key
reforms and will reinforce and the Bank's reform program through greater efficiencies
and synergies, as explicitly requestedby the MEFand CAE (see Annex 6).

The Bank also has been active in seeking involvement of civil society in project
preparation, and has carefully assessed the strengths and weaknesses of civil society in
Ecuador.     Project design has benefited from regular meetings with civil society
organizations andtwo major civil society consultations (see Annex 15).

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set up within the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF), under the leadership of the Subsecretary of Political Economy. Its
organization and functions will be detailed in an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank. The PCU will coordinate the activities of the implementing agencies, which will
sign an implementation agreementwith the MEF, satisfactory to the Bank.

A Steering Committee will be constituted to oversee project implementation. Under the
leadership of the Minister of Economy and Finance the Steering Committee will be
composed of the heads of the CAE, SENRES and CCCC and will provide strategic
leadership to guide project implementation. The Steering Committee will be supported
by a Technical Body, composedof coordinators in each implementing agency, to oversee
and direct project implementation in each component. Inaddition, an Advisory Board to
the Steering Committee will include national and international experts on the specific
components, including representativesfrom civil society, to provide technical advice and
support to the implementing agencies.




                                                                                         17

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomeshesults

Crucial for the goal of achieving strong results is a sharp focus on a sound monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system for the project. Responsibility for M&E is shared by the
PCU and implementing agencies. Monitoring instruments include progress reports with
process, progress, outcome, and results indicators; a combination of ex ante and ex post
monitoring; impact evaluations and user surveys. Internal and external independent
progressreviews will be complementedby participatory M&Ecarried out by civil society
organizations. Monitoring and evaluation results will feed back into the decision-making
analysis to improve project performance. The set-up of the M&E system will require
some institutionalstrengthening, for which the Bank will also collaborate with USAID.

4. Sustainability

Financial sustainability of the project is expected as project costs will be more than
compensated by improved managerial capacity generating fiscal savings and efficiency
gains, including increasedtaxpayer compliance, higher efficiency and transparencyin the
management of Customs and procurement, greater control over the wage bill, and
improved efficiency in selected agencies. Institutionalsustainability will be strengthened
through a focus on enhancedintra- and inter-institutional coordination, including through
the Steering Committee. Technical sustainability will be enhanced through technical
assistance for institutional strengthening, capacity-building, and implementation and
through the support of the Advisory Board (and incollaboration with other donors, where
applicable).      Social sustainability will be promoted through a highly participatory
approach with civil society and stakeholder engagement in all project stages, including
oversight bodies and participatory M&E instruments. Finally, the change management
strategyinitself is a powerful instrument to ensureproject sustainability in all its aspects.

5. Criticalrisksandpossible controversialaspects

The project i s a high risk project. The most significant risks to the project concern the
politicalenvironment and the vested interests of stakeholders. Component - specific risk
mitigation measures will be reinforced by a focus on change management as an overall
riskmitigationstrategy.



                      R i S k S                        RiskMitigationMeasures               RiskRating
                                                                                           with Mitigation

                                    To project developmentobjective                                       1
 Intendedreformsactivate latentstakeholder   Change management will provideelements to          H
 resistanceto block reform.                  anticipateandaddress stakeholderresistance.
                                             Close monitoring and supervisionwith
                                             progressindicatorswill signal viability for
                                             reform.

 Policymakerscannot convincethe officials    Civil society oversightwill create additional      H
 responsiblefor implementingreforms of the   demands and pressurefor reform from outside
 benefitof reforms.                          the state apparatus.

                                                       Publicationanddisseminationof reform
                                                       targets will help to holdofficials accountable
                                                       for progress.

 While the "losers" of reform(e.g. agency              The projectinvolveskey civil society              H
 directors, privatecompaniesthat often win             organizations(for instancechambers of
 procurementcontracts) are concentrated,the            commerce)that will helpovercomecollective
 "winners" of reform are dispersed(e.g.                actionproblems.
  taxpayers,citizens).The "winners" may be             Change management,particularlywidespread
 difficult to mobilize in support of the reform,       communication anddisseminationof reform
  thereby threatening sustainability.                  success in specific areas will help raise broad
                                                       awareness.
~~

 There are no short-termsuccessesto enhance the Component4 i s designedinaflexible way to
 credibility of the reformprogram.                     select those institutionswhere success is likely


  Civil society groups may lose interest and
 disengage during reform implementation.               during supervision will helpto ensure their
                                                       continuedinvolvement.

                                                  To :omponentresults

  The government cannottransfer Customs                The civil society oversightcommittee will         H
  administrationto civilian authorities                create external pressure for effectivereform.
  (Component 1).                                       Close supervision and monitoringof progress
                                                       will take place.

  Administrativeautonomygrantedto agencies             SteeringCommittee providesinstitutional             S
  with the objectiveto facilitateimplementationof frameworkfor mutualmonitoringand
  reformprovidesnew opportunitiesfor capture           supervision.
  (inparticularwith regardsto Component1).             Implementingagenciesdependon MEFfor
                                                       disbursementof funds.

  Civil servicereform (Component3) is not a            Publicationanddisseminationof targets of            S
  visible area andimpliesthat change is achieved       reformto civil society.
  only from within the state apparatus.
                                                     ~~                 ~


  The Bank is unableto signal to implementing          Bank supervision must signal to government        H
  agenciestheir responsibilityfor project              its responsibilityin carryingout reform.
  implementationandownership of reform.                Training inchange management will
                                                       contributeto creatingownershipof reform.

  OverallRiskRating: H

  Risk Rating: H(High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)


6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

           Conditions precedent to Effectiveness of the Loan are the following:
           (a)       the Operational Manual has been issued and adopted by the Borrower and
                     approved by the Bank; and
           (b)       the financial management system for the Project has been established and
                     adoptedby the Borrower, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                                                                              19

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic andfinancialanalyses

The proposed project is considered cost-effective. The economic impact will be realized
largely through effectiveness gains.     The project's financial impact is considered
sustainable, as the project costs should be more than compensated by improved
managerial capacity reflected in fiscal savings and efficiency gains. Quantitative
estimates of the fiscal savings, effectiveness and efficiency gains will be elaborated
duringappraisal. (See Annex 9)

2. Technical

The technical analysis i s based on prior in-depth analytical work, including notes on
different aspects of public sector reform (refer to Annex 12 for details). The selected
approach reflects international experience and best practices in public sector
management, including an analysis of risks and risk mitigation. International references
for the operation include: for Customs, Bolivia, Chile, Mexico, and Peru; for
procurement, Chile and Mexico; for civil service reform, Bolivia, and Brazil; and for
selected services, Argentina, Mexico and Peru. Experts from these countries who have
been involved in these reforms will advise implementing agencies regularly. Project
design will also benefit from technical assistance and institutional strengthening, change
managementmechanisms, and close monitoring and supervision.

3. Fiduciary

A Financial Management Assessment (FMA) of the Sub-secretaria de Politica
Econdmica and Sub-secretaria Administrativa of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF) was performed to evaluate the proposedfinancial management arrangements and
the Project Coordination Unit's capacity to provide the Bank with accurate, reliable and
timely information regarding resources and expenditures.           The joint assessment
(performed on site from March 29 to April 1, 2004) with the Procurement Capacity
Assessment was conducted in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for
Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank Financed Projects.
As a result of the assessment, a consolidated time-bound Financial Management (FM)
and ProcurementAction planhas beenproposed.

Procurement will be carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines and the
provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The proposed thresholds for prior review
are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the PCU and summarized in Table
B, Annex 8. The PCUwill be incharge of preparingall biddingdocuments, carrying out
bid openings, shopping procedures, and selecting and contracting consultant services for
all contracts above andbelow prior review threshold. The technical staff of the PCU will
be responsible for the quality of technical documents and products delivered by
consultants, or physical inputs financed under the project.




                                                                                        20

The Operational Manual for the project will specify the duties and responsibilities of all
the institutions involved in the implementation of the project. It will also include the
procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each
procurement method, and model contract for goods procured on the basis of three
quotations or shopping.

Disbursementswill be transaction based (Le., against Statements of expenditure (SOEs),
full documentation, direct payments or special commitments). Deposits into the Special
Account and replenishments up to the authorized allocation set out inthe legal agreement
will be made on the basis of applications for withdrawals prepared by the PCU in MEF
and accompanied by the supporting documentation in accordance with Bank
disbursementprocedures.

4. Social

The project will produce positive social impacts by generating greater efficiency in the
utilization of public resources. There is no direct negative social impact to be expected
from implementation of Component 4, Professional Civil Service. However, the HFW
database will enable the government to reduce the negative impact of an indiscriminate
personnelreduction, should government decide to reducepublic employment.

5. Environment

Given the project objective to strengthen the management capacity of the government and
to improve public service delivery in Customs, procurement, civil service and select
public services, the project will not affect the existing environmental framework. No
environmental study or analysis will be required and none of the environmental or social
safeguardpolicies will be triggered. The Project i s rated as Category "C".

6. Safeguard policies

Thisproject triggers none of the Bank's environmental or social safeguardpolicies.

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                       Yes                  No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)


* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determinationof theparties`
claims on thedisputedareas



                                                                                                             21

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
None.




                                      22

                Annex 1: CountryandSectoror ProgramBackground
                          ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

Inrecent years Ecuador has tried to remake itself, botheconomically and politically. The
country has changed - and i s still changing - but these changes have not been able to
reduce the key constraints on social and economic development posed by a weak state
and inefficient services. Although attempts at state reform are numerous, their outcome
and impact have beenfairly limited at best.

The reasons for this under-performance are embedded in the political, economic and
social structure of Ecuador. Since the early 1970sbuoyant revenue from oil has allowed
most governments to live with inefficiencies. Oil income impeded policy makers from
recognizing underlying economic andfiscal constraints. After 1979,this dilemma became
more complex: democratization provided groups access to arenas where policy was
debated and enacted - Congress, the Executive, Judiciary - and they seized this
opportunity to gain access to oil rents. With little incentive to tax, but with a strong need
to serve their clientele, all governments contributed to state growth by expanding public
employment andinvestment. Efficiency concerns were not given priority.

After 1990, some incentives to reform the state emerged. The percentage of oil in total
government revenue declined, heightening distributional pressures. More openness and
regional integration have createdmore competition and incentives for efficiency. In 1995,
the NationalModernization Council (CONAM) was founded and inthe following years it
launched several ambitious reform programs that focused mainly on privatization. But so
far, the outcomes of these reform programs are limited. Although there were some
incentives to improve services, those with a stake in maintaining inefficiencies have
outmaneuveredthose with a genuine interest inmakingthe public sector more effective.

The financial and economic crisis of 1999 represents a sharp break with this past. With
the international price of oil plummeting to 7 USD per barrel, the weather phenomenon
El NiAo devastating crops in coastal lowlands, and the collapse of private banks, there
was no other opportunity for government than to reform the state. The dollarization
regime adopted in January 2000 as a responseto this crisis provided a significant budget
constraint: fiscal policy remained as the only tool for economic policy. Whereas before
currency devaluations were a comfortable means to disguise inefficiencies, now revenue
neededto be raisedfrom voters and taxpayers. For the first time, policy makers had a real
incentive to tax. The Revenue Authority (SRI) was given the managerial autonomy to
simplify procedures, impose sanctions, and serve their clients. As a result, tax revenue
increased significantly when measured as a percentage of GDP. For first time in more
than 30 years, the share of tax revenue was higher than non-tax revenue (mainly oil)
(Figure 2). Citizens now have a powerful argument to hold politicians accountable for
their actions.This is akey entry point for statereform.




                                                                                           23

Figure2. Tax andNon-TaxRevenueof CentralGovernment(% GDP)and
ImportantTax ReformEfforts,1964-2002

         18

         16

         14

         12

         10

           8

           6

          4

          2

           0



                                                    Years
                            1-Tax       Revenue -Nan-Tax Revenue          1

Source: World Bank, basedon datafrom CentralBank of Ecuador (2002).

The years following dollarization in 2000 were tough, but government achieved progress
in important areas. Inflation fell to single digits and growth has been restored. Reported
unemployment decreased as well as urban poverty. As a result of this positive
development, the government has improved its fiscal position. The Bank has supported
the government in achieving this through the Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive
Growth Structural Adjustment Loan (FCCGL-I) (Table 4).


Table4. Progressinthe Government's Programsupportedby FCCGL-I in2003

    Policy Goal                   Main Quantitative Results between 2002 and 2003

 Improvedprice         End-year inflation rate fell from 9.4 to 6.1 percent and growth was 3 percentin
 stability and         2003.
 growth recovery       Unemployment fell from 10to 9.3 percent.
                       NFPS surplus doubledto 1.9 percentof GDP.
                       Current accountbalance improved from-4.9 percentto -1.9 percent, andexcess
                       reservesrose from US$396mlnto US$4SS mln.
                   0   Active interest rates fell by about 1.S percentagepoints in2003.
                   0   EMBI+ spread fell by about 1,000 basis points between December 2002 and
                       2003.

 Higher fiscal         Annual tax revenuecollected by IRS increasedby 7.8 percent.
 revenue

 Strengthen            Primary spendingfell from 21.7 to 20.8 percent of GDP.



                                                                                                     24

  spending           0    Primary fiscal surplus increasedfrom 4.5 to 4.9 percentof GDP.
  management

  Civil service           Annual increase in the wage bill reduced to 0.2 percent of GDP (from 1.3
  reform                  percentin 2002).
                          Congress approval of key Civil Service and Wage Unification Law. About 40
                          percent of public servants went under a unified salary scale, and the number of
                          redundant public personnel for 2004 was capped at 1 percent of the
                          economically active population.

  Increasedbudget         MEFinitiates publication ofregularconsolidatedreports onbudgetexecution

  transparency            An e-procurement system, CONTRATANET, was set up and became
                          functional.
                          A single public sector investmentdatabase was created.

  Enhanceddebt            Public debt ratio declinedfrom 58.3 to 53.4 percentof GDP.
  management              All 2002 external and domestic arrears were cleared.
                          FEIREP started functioning and cumulated US$107 million in 2003, of which
                          70 percenthavebeenallocatedto debt buyback.
                   I
  Trade reform            COMEXI unified import licenses, and eliminated about 8 percent of previously
                          existing ones, while setting-up a pilot electronic system to approve import
                          licenses.

  Power sector            Electricity tariffs reachedno less than 85 percentof averagecosts.
  reform

  Telecom reform          ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL hadoperational surpluses and awardeda third
                          mobile telephony license to Telecsa, while transferring its management to a
                          private administrator.

  Lower subsidies         Fuel prices for domestic consumption were increased and subsidy to
  inthe oil sector        Petroecuadorbudget was cut by about US$200 million.

  Labor market            Minimum salary adjustment for 2004 was in line with the projected floor
  reform                  inflationrate for 2004.



Despite important progress in the economic area and in some "islands of efficiency,"
more in-depth and rigorous state reform is needed to achieve broad-based development.
Infact, when analyzing governance indicators it appears that progress inpoliticalreform
i s diametrically opposed to the economic progress achieved in recent years. As Table 5
indicates, Ecuador's ability to govern i s weak and has deteriorated over the last 6 years
(Column I V presents changes in point estimates over 1996-2002 period; all indicators
show a decline in performance). Ecuador also ranks third (of 30) from the bottom of the
scale in Latin America and the Caribbean for "government effectiveness" (Figure 3). It
also ranks in the bottom third of the world distribution for "rule of law." Confidence in
government (37 out of scale of 100) i s among the lowest inLatin America and more than
75% of the Ecuadorian population believes that corruption i s very common to somewhat
common, according to the WBI survey^.^


    Seligson, Mitchell A.; Recanatini, Francesca: The Environment and Governance and Corruption, in:
Fretes-Cibils, Vicente; Giugale, Marcel0 M.; Lopez-Calix, Jose-Roberto (ed.): Ecuador. An Economic and
Social Agenda in the New Millennium, World Bank, Washington DC, p.411-443.


                                                                                                        25

Table 5. Governance Indicators for Ecuador (World Bank Institute, WBI)
                                        I                                                 Iv          I




Source: D. Kaufmann, A. Kraay, and M.Mastmzzi. 2003. GovemanceMatters III: Govemance Indicatorsfor I996-
2002.
Note: The six governance indicators are measured in units ranging from about -2.5 to 2.5, with higher
values corresponding to better governance outcomes. Point estimates for each governance measure are
constructed by aggregating several different related indicators. Governance estimates are normally
distributed with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one ineach period.



Figure 3. Government Effectiveness (LAC, 2000-2001)




The Gutierrez Administration, which took office in January 2003, is well aware o f the
challenges to state reform. It has recognizedthat efficient services are key to capitalize on
and sustain economic reform so as to reap the benefits achieved. The roadmap for
achieving this i s the Program for Economic Restructuring and Human Development
(PEHRD) which lays out a foundation to achieve an effective state at the service of its
citizens: anticorruption policies, modernization of the state, pro-transparency and citizen
participation programs are part o f this program (Box 1).




                                                                                                     26

        Box 1. The Program for Economic Restructuring and Human Development
                                                 (PEHRD)
    The new Administration announced the PEHRD upon takingoffice on 15 January 2003. I t
    originally had three main pillars: economic, redistributive, and institutional policies. I t
    recognized the precarious fiscal situation and the urgent need for short- and medium-term
    structural reforms to sustain economic recovery and reduce poverty. It targeted 11 social
    indicators for 2003-07.
         Short-term economic policies encompass (a) an austerity Presidential Decree, "Norms for
         Patriotic Savings," which restrains public expenditure to attack the immediate liquidity
        problem; a 2003 budget consistent with such austerity norms; and an increase in fuel prices;
         (b) a tax reform; (c) a restructuring of the corruption-prone Ecuadorian Customs
        Corporation; and (d) the setting up of FEIREP for debt reduction and countercyclical fiscal
        policy.
        Medium-term structural economic policies include (a) civil service reform; (b) completion
         of the financial sector reform; (c) creation of a Banking Liquidity Fund; (d) full liquidation
         of closed banks; and (e) new incentives to attract foreign investment, in particular in
         telecommunications, electricity, and the oil industry, starting with tariff adjustments.
         Social policies include (a) the raising of the Bono Solidario (cash subsidy) from US$11.5 to
         US$15 per month; (b) the increase of pensions of retirees by US$5 per month; (c) the
         approval of a minimumpension of US$15 per month for people over 68 years of age who
         were not receiving the Bono Solidario; and (d) actions in the social sectors and the social
         security system, especially benefiting indigenous and rural populations.
         Institutional reforms contain (a) anticorruption policies, (b) modernization of the state, and
         (c) pro-transparency and citizen participation programs. To do so, the GOE organized
         Mesas de Didlogo and also announced its intention to revise the decentralization framework,
         while engaging civil society in the design and monitoring o f the public budget.


Source: Initiating Memorandum for FCCGL-11.

One year later, the GOE has refined the PERHD with a clear view to implementing
lagging reforms on the economic (structural), social, and governance fronts. InJanuary
2004, President GutiCrrez reviewed the PERHD's first year. The primary achievements
included price stability, short-term fiscal consolidation, and redistributive policies.
However, there were clearly delays in attracting foreign investment, in completing the
financial sector reform agenda, in passing telecommunications and power state
companies to a private manager, infilling the structural social gap - especially education
-andinimplementing aneffective anticorruption agenda. The GOE addedtwo new
pillars (environment and security) to its poverty reduction agenda, while deepening its
previous efforts on economic, social, andgovernancepolicies.

Key state reform efforts are now pursued in four areas: Customs, civil service,
procurement and selected areas. Reform along these lines will allow the government to
achieve an important second step in raising revenue and improving the quality of
expenditures, which will help improve public sector management and service-delivery.
Success in these areas will showcase the possibilities of state reform and help create
greater demands for reforminother areas, thereby makingreversal of reformless likely.




                                                                                                        27

   Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                      ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

Table 6: RelatedWor IBank Projects
       Project              Donor         How relatedto        IPandDO Ratings
                                      Project Development
                                            Objective
Completed Public      World Bank      Project objectives      Project completed in
Sector Management                     were: improving         1993.
Project                               efficiency public
PO07001                               investment and
                                      strengthening the
                                      organizational and
                                      financial structuresof
                                      selectedpublic
                                      enterprises.
Completed: MOSTA      World Bank      Project pursued public  Project completedin
"Modernization of the                 sector reform,          2000: rated
State -Technical                      including financial     "satisfactory" inthe
Assistance"                           management.             ICR.
(PO07136)
Completed:            World Bank      Project contains        Project completed:
Programmatic Fiscal                   specific benchmarks     "S" inICR (February
Consolidationand                      and triggers related to 2004).
Equitative Growth                     Customs (Component
LoanI(P082739)                        l), Procurement
                                      (Component 2), and
                                      Civil Service Reform
                                      (Component 3).
SIGEF: Financial      World Bank      Project pursues         Ip:"S"
Management                            development and         DO: "S"
(P074218)                             introductionof
                                      financial management
                                      system, thereby
                                      contributing to
                                      transparency.
Programmatic Human    World Bank      Itis beingconsidered    IP:"S"
Development                           that Component 4        DO: "S"
(P0082395)                            (Improvement of
                                      Services in Key
                                      Areas) may touch
                                      upon specific social
                                      programs and make
                                      them more efficient
                                      (no decision hasbeen
                                      taken as of yet).
Health Modernization  World Bank      Project intends to
MODERSA (Project                      improve health
No.4342)                              reform. Possible
                                      coordination required


                                                                                  28

                                         inComponent 4
                                         (selectedservices) if
                                         social sector reform i s
                                         considered.




       Project              Donor           How relatedto Project Development
                                                          Objective
Program               German Technical    3TZprojectprovidestechnical assistance
"Modernization of the Cooperation (GTZ)   :oMinistry of Economy and Finance
State"                                    :MEF),among others, for responsible
                                          'iscal managementof central and local
                                          ;overnments; it entails transparency of
                                          Fiscalaccounts and dissemination of
                                          mdget data.
SALTO (Structural     USAID               Projectencompasses macro and micro
Adjustment and                            xonomic reforms.
Liberalization Task                       On the macro economic front, SALTO
Order)                                    supportspublic finance, by strengthening
                                          MEF, Customs, and IRS. Project also
                                          tackles Trade Agreements and support to
                                          the US-Ecuador Free Trade Negotiations.
                                          MEFisbeingrestructured internallyto
                                          meet the challenges imposedby its
                                          mandate; it will receive approximately 1.5
                                          million intechnical assistancefor fiscal
                                          policy implementation. Customs has
                                          receivedand will continue to receive
                                          fundingfor selectedpurposes, in
                                          coordinationwith World Bank, and IRS
                                          will continue to receive funding for the
                                          last 18 months inkey areas of tax
                                          administration.
                                          Project entering third year of operation.
Decentralization,     USAID               Project seeks to support governance by:
Democracy and                             (1) strengthening localgovernments and
Development (3D)                          their capacity to implement projects; (2)
                                          supporting fiscal decentralization tools
                                          and procedures at MEF; (3) promoting
                                          participation of civil society and
                                          constituents indefinition of public
                                          budgets and projects, thereby requesting
                                          accountability from public officers.
                                          Project enteringthirdyear of operation.
S i Se Puede          USAID               Project to support anti corruption through:
I                                         (1) Access of Information, (2) Support to
                                          Control entities andjournalists intheir



                                                                                      29

                                          investigativecapacity (3) Transparent
                                          Municipal Governments.
                                          Project in initial implementation phase,
                                          and components mightchange slightly in
                                          their scope after USAID's first revision.
 Programfor            IADB               The project aims to support administrative
 Decentralization                         decentralization (CONAM) and provide

                                         fi
                                          tools for fiscal decentralization (MEF).

 Trade Sector Facility  IADB              The project will create "Trade Capacity"
                                          infive public entities, includingMEF.
                                          MEFwill createa"Foreign Operations"
                                          Unit to formulate and monitor public
                                          policies intrade- related areas. It will also
                                          support the ForeignTrade Agreement
                                          negotiations.
                                          Project approved by IADBinApril 2004.
 Judicial Reform       IADB               Project i s at "definition" phase. It aims to
                                          reformthe judicial systemby: (1)
                                           strengthening key institutions injudicial
                                           administration (2) support the application
                                           of the Co'digode ProcedimientoPenal (3)
~




                                           finance civil society projects that aim at
                                           improving access to thejudicial system,
                                           legal education, and others.
                                          Project likely to be approved in
                                           November 2004.
                        European Union     Project works with three NGO's to
 Democracy                                 promote the rights of citizens inhuman
                                           rightsanddemocracy andfocuses on
                                           training and dissemination of information
                                           to some focal groups.
 Anticorruption'       BritishCooperation  Training for localjournalists in anti
 trainingforjournalists                    corruption with Fundacio'nEl Universo
                                           (public diplomacy challenge fund)
                                           Four Seminars
                                           Governance Seminars: accountability,
                                           access of information (inMexico and
                                           Peru).
 Governance            UNDP                Project to support local governments and
                                           local organizations in managing their
                                           budgets with transparency and
                                           accountability.
 Governance            CAF                 Project executed with GeorgeWashington
                                           University and two local Universities
                                           (Cato'licade Quito y de Guayaquil)
                                           whereby localauthorities are trained in
                                           governance issues.Three Modules. Two
                                           oromotions have m-aduatedthus far.




                                                                                        30

                           Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

                                             ResultsFramework

                                            OutcomeIndicators                         Use of Outcome
                                                                                        Information
 Customs, procurement, and                  Internal and external              YR 1:Determine improvement
 civil service and selected                 performance reviews and            Lnservice delivery, efficiency
   service-delivery areas are               user perceptions show              mdtransparency.
 more efficient, effective,                 improved service delivery          YR 2: Determine level of
 transparent, and accountable.              inkey areas.                       sccountability of government
 Reformed areas constitute                  Access to informationand           through improved
 models of state modernization              regular reporting regarding        managementsystems and
 to be expandedto other public              the operation of reformed          increasedcivil society
   sector areas.                            areas.                             oversight.

                                        0   Competitive selection of           YR 4: Determine demand of
                                            human resourcesin                  other reforms anddesign and
                                            implementingagencies.              implementation of such
                                            M&Emechanismsfor                   additional reforms.
                                            service-delivery by civil
                                            society are used and help
                                            improve project
                                            implementation.

                                                                               Use of ResultsMonitoring

I   ComponentOne:                       ComponentOne:                          ComponentOne:
   Customs service-delivery,             0  Reduction of Customs               YR 1-4: Determine ifusers
   collection systems and                  clearance time5: (i)     to 50%     receive a more efficient
   taxpayer compliance has                 of baseline within 6                service and improved
    improved.                              months; (ii) 25% of
                                                           to                  collection and compliance.
                                           baseline within 18 months;          After YR 2: Determine fiscal
                                           (iii) 10%within36
                                                 to                            impact of Customs reform.
                                           months.
                                            The differential import
                                           gap6identified inthe
                                           baseline has been reduced

I                                          by 25% within 12months;
                                           by 50% within 24 months;
                                           by 75% within 36 months.
                                            Inspectionfindings' with
                                           fiscal impact have
                                           increased from the current

   ~~



     Clearance time = from arrival o f goods to port o f entry until made available to importer.
     Differential import gap = difference between declared exports incountry of origin and registered
   merchandise at destination.
     Inspectionfinding = difference between declared and inspected merchandise.


                                                                                                            31

                                     1%to 3% of the total of
                                    inspectedgoods within 12
                                    months, to 5% of the total
                                    of inspectedgoods within

                                     months.
                                     18 months; to 8% within 36

                                     At least2 monthlyjoint
                                    audits with Revenue
                                    Authority (SRI) have been
                                    conducted within 12
                                    months; at least 3 monthly
                                    audits within 24 months; at
                                    least 4 monthly audits
                                    within 36 months.
                                     Operation of an
                                    Intelligenceand Audit Unit
                                     within the Customs agency
                                    after 12months and
                                     follow-up to cases.

ComponentTwo:                    ComponentTwo:                      ComponentTwo:
The ratio of costlquality of     1st yeadwithin 12 months:          YR 1-4: Determinereduction
goods and services purchased         Regulations to the new         o f opportunities for corruption
by government has improved           Procurement Law have           andsavings inprocurement
and clear responsibilities for       been approved, officially      due to greater transparency
procurement are inplace.             published and effectively
                                                 "                  andefficiency.
                                      implemented.
                                     Fulldisclosure and
                                     dissemination of
                                     procurement processes8
                                     and results by at least 50%
                                      of central government
                                      agenciesgthrough
                                     CONTRATANET.
                                      Designof transactional
                                      systemfor
                                     CONTRATANET.

                                 2"dyeadwithin 24 months:
                                     At least 3 agencies have
                                      adopted the new
                                     CONTRATANET
                                     transactional system on a
                                     pilot basis.
                                      100%of government
                                     procurement processes


 Procurement process= includesall steps of purchasingprocess (excludesdirect purchase).
 Centralgovernmentagencies = sector ministries and autonomousagencies.
loAssuming that CCCC has transferredCONTRATANETto the implementing agency.


                                                                                                  32

                                   have been published.
                                   The procurementprocess
                                   has been (i) by an
                                                audited
                                   international, independent
                                   firmand (ii)  monitoredby
                                   civil society organizations
                                   including CCCC''. The
                                   results have been disclosed
                                   and disseminated.

                               3rdyeadwithin 36 months:
                                   30% of number of
                                   biddings work under the
                                   new CONTRATANET
                                   transactional system.
                                   30% of total value of
                                   central government
                                   purchaseshave been
                                   realized with the new
                                   CONTRATANET
                                   transactional system.
                                   50% of central
                                   government entities
                                   operate with the new
                                   CONTRATANET
                                   transactional system.
                                   A permanent auditing
                                   system, based on
                                   international standards, i s
                                   inoperation. Itis
                                   monitored by the private
                                   sector and civil society
                                   including CCCC. Its
                                   results have been
                                   presentedto the public,
                                   discussedand
                                   disseminated.

                               4Ihyeadwithin 48 months:
                                0  100%of central
                                   government agencies
                                   operate with the new
                                   CONTRATANET
                                   transactional system.

Component Three:               Component Three:                 Component Three:
Central government officials      Within24 months HRM           YR 1: Ensurethat system
access real time data on staff    personnel data module         design i s suitable for stated
composition, estimate future      installed in at least 95% of  SIGRH-SENRES functions.
staffingneeds, monitor            central government            YR 2: Tracks gradual



                                                                                              33

personnel selection and         agenciescovered by the      jevelopment of SIGRH-
evaluation procedures,          Civil Service and Wage      3ENRES and flags
evaluate the fiscal impact of   Unification Law.            mplementation bottlenecks.
proposed salary changes,        Within 24 months            4fter YR 2: Ensure that
define capacity building        personnel information for   selection and evaluation
needs, and manage staff         at least 95% of central     nodels support
allocations.                    government personnel        xofessionalization of civil
                                covered by the Civil        service.
                                Service andWage
                                Unification Law included
                                in personnel database.
                                Within24 months
                                employees of at least 50%
                                of HRunitscovered by the
                                Civil Service and Wage
                                Unification Law trained in
                                use of the HRMpersonnel
                                data module. These
                                modules operational in
                                these agencies, as
                                monitored by SENRES.
                                Within 36 months select
                                employees of at least 95%
                                of HR unitscovered by the
                                Civil Service and Wage
                                Unification Law trained in
                                use of the HRMpersonnel
                                data module. These
                                modules operational in
                                these agencies, as
                                monitoredby SENRES.
                                Within 36 months HRM
                                modules for personnel
                                selection and evaluation
                                installed in4 pilot
                                departments, andHRunit
                                staff trained intheir use.
                                These modules operational
                                inthese departments, as
                                monitoredby SENRES.
                                 Within24 months the
                                SENRES website will
                                present summary data
                                coveringpublic
                                administrationemployment
                                and pay.

ComponentFour:                ComponentFour:                ComponentFour:
Selectedpublic entities have    Reengineered processes      YR 1-4: Determine ifreform
streamlined Drocessesand/or     and/or organizational       has reduced opportunities for

structuresfor more effective   1 restructuring have been    I corruption, led to more
service delivery.                implemented in selected      efficiency, and improved
                                 agencies.                    services.
                                  Simplified administrative   YR 2: Show if services are
                                 procedures(trdmites) in      operational inall its extent.
                                 selectedagenciesresult in    YR 4: Determine if reformed
                                 cost/time/qualit y           processes andor structures
                                 improvements in the          have not beenreversed or
                                 delivery of services and     altered.
                                 higher user satisfaction.




                                                                                           35


         (r




   h

   4



        d




I


c

4



      0
      d


3
30




0




0

In
n




           3
           d



VI
n




3
VI    3




3     3




3


                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                             ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

Component1.CustomsReform-US$1.6 million

       SRI, CAE and MEF, supported by the World Bank and USAID developed a Customs
Modernization Plan in early 2004. Its main objectives are to (i)    increase tax collection and
supervision, and to avoid underrate fraud and contraband; and (ii) the costs for users in
                                                                   reduce
processes related to Customs, especially in the process of merchandising imports. To comply
with the goals of the Modernization Plan, the following areas are being supported as part of this
operation.

(a)InternalAudit. The objective is to strengtheninternal audit andcontrolof corruption.

    0  Re-design the Audit and Internal Affairs Units and create a new unit responsible for
       investigation, audit procedures and preventive audit.
    0  Establish an agreement between CAE and CCCC to exchange information on cases and
       practices of Customs corruption.
    0  Design a control system to manage cases of corruption and monitor the ordinary justice
       of the cases.
    0  Diagnose and preparean action planfor IT security systems.
    0  Design of a model of internal audit account.
    0  Designof annualpublic account of audit and transparency.
    0  Develop an ethics code.


(b) Coordinationof Customs Agency (CAE)and RevenueAuthority (SRI). The objective is
to improve coordination between CAE and SRIinorder to superviseforeign trade activities.

    0  Form a team of supervisors made up of auditors of CAE and SRI for joint auditing of
       large tax contributors, to be coordinated by SRI. The target is to perform three monthly
       audits and, after six months, perform at least ninejoint monthly audits.
    0  Expand the use of the foreign trade base in SRI on a pilot stage. Allow joint auditors to
       access this information base and cross-check information so as to establish a risk profile
       of tax contributors. The goal is to reach a tax compliance rate in 80 percent, of the
       selectedcases, as determinedby the data base.
    0  Create a mandatory registration of importers for any import of merchandise. The
       condition i s that the importer must be recorded in the tax contributor data base of SRI.
       The goal of the SRIi s to audit 100percent of companies that are registered for first time
       inthis tax contributor database.


(c) Exit of InspectionEnterprises. The objective is to gradually eliminate the participation of
inspecting enterprises, so that in 18 months, they stop performing operations of certification of
pre-shipment.




                                                43

           Establish a valuation base within 4 months that contains those items covering 90 percent
           of the total value of the imports".
       0   Establish cross-information channels with international agencies and information and
           software supplying enterprises to obtain prices and values of sensitive merchandise.

(d) Institutional Reform. The objective is to transfer Customs administration from the military
to civilians. A human resources program should be implemented, aiming at the
professionalization of staff.
Design and implementation of a human resource managementsystem, with complete registry of
the CAE's officials' information.
       0   Design of training program andits curriculum.
      0    Develop a permanentevaluation systemand description of postsfor CAE.
      0    Develop and apply a permanent systemof official performanceevaluation.
      e    Select systemof improvement.
      0    Develop a retirement plan of Customs officials, which includes financing of
           compensations.

(e) Coordinationof Port Authoritiesand CAE. The objective i s to establish a greater degree of
coordination among the Port Authorities and the CAE.

       0   Form a joint commission for Customs-port supervision among Port Authority and CAE
           (by presidential decree).
       0   Conduct a study onjoint legal faculties for CAE and Port Authorities so as to delegate or
           complement powers amongbothentities.
       0   Develop a plan for joint supervision.
       0   Develop a planfor port security and its execution.
       0   Re-design manifests control system and perform cross-checks with the statements of
           importation.
           Evaluate financing mechanisms of CAE and develop a new model.


(f)Valuation of foreigntrade merchandise.The objective is to achievegreater effectiveness of
control as well as smaller costs related to import and export activities. This entails a reduction of
valuations and gradual elimination of pre-shipment certificates.

       0   Establish "risk profiles" for the selection of valuations and eliminate those performed by
           inspecting enterprises. The goal i s to reduce valuations from the present 70 percent of
           operations to 40 percent within six months, and to 20 percent within twelve months. The
           effectiveness of the valuations of 1percent should be increasedto 5 percent within twelve
           months.
      0    Reducetotal Customs clearancetime from an average of 27 days to 15 days within six
           months andno more than six days inthe following twelve months.l2


  I t is estimated that a list of 100tariff items covers more than 90 percent of the total o f the value.
  At present the average time in which merchandise is held by Customs and inspecting enterprises i s 13 days. The
remaining 14 days of the total of 27 of Customs clearance time is due do the involvement of other control agencies,
including agricultural control and control of narcotics.


                                                            44

(8) CivilSociety Oversight. The objective is to create an "Observatory of Customs Reform", led
by the Civil Anti-Corruption Commission (CCCC), which will be linked to the management of
CAE and its decisions. The Observatory will be integrated by independent civil society
organizations such as CLD, the Fiscal Observatory, the Guayaquil University and the
Universidad Politknica.
    0  Define monitoring indicators and set abaseline.
    0  Define and implementparticipatory monitoring mechanisms.
    0  Determine and adopt performance standardsbasedon international experience.
    0  Track progress of the reform and issue regular progress reports. Disseminate to national
       authorities and to the public and encourage that recommendations from progress reports
       are beingusedfor project improvement.
Component 2. Procurement Reform US$1.9 million
                                        -
The reform of the procurement system takes a central role inthe government's state reformplan.
The central activity to be supported by the operation i s to transform the electronic procurement
systemCONTRATANET into afull-fledged transactional system.

(a) Technical Assistance for Legal Reforms. Provide technical assistance to the enactment of
key legislation, such as a revised Procurement Law (reforms to Law No. 95) and an electronic
public transactions law. This also entails implementation of some of the adopted measuresin the
packageof reforms approved in2000.

(b)Training. Provide training on project administration and on electronic procurement, including
the establishment of a national network of experts for sharing of best practices provide training
on new forms of procurement, concessions, and privatization options.

(c) Ethics. Elaborate an Ethics Code for procurement on behalf of CCCC.

(d) Coverage. Expand coverage of the CONTRATANET (software build-in) by converting it
from an informational to a transactional procurement system and include all institutions in
transactional public services to fully implement the NationalRegister of Contractor system.

(e) Auditing. Establish performance audits with emphasis on pre-contractual stages; audit the
public entities annual and multi-annual procurement plan; audit payments and crosscheck with
bidsunderthe systemof "licitaciones".

(0 Accreditation. Improve the national system of accreditation on procurement, including the
private and the public sector.

(g) Institutional framework. Establish a public procurement regulator (establish the
administration of the Consejo de Compras). This entails strengthening coordination between
various agencies involved inprocurement by creating a Consejo de Comprus (which will include
CCCC, Comptroller General's Office, Attorney General's Office, andMEF).

Particular emphasis will be put on civil society oversight of procurement. To this end, this
component will also support a permanent and independent monitoring committee led by the



                                                45

CCCC as the supervisory body of the procurement processes and integrated by civil society
institutions with expertise on the subject. To enhance efficiency and effectiveness of the system,
the committee will conduct an ongoing process of evaluation of CONTRATANET, which will
consist o f
    0    User-evaluation of overall-performance of CONTRATANET (quality, efficiency, user-
         friendliness, perceived levelof integrity), through users' report-cards.
    0    An analysis of the data gathered through the user-enquiries and the inclusion of the
         results into a broad evaluation, which will also comprise issues like connectivity and
         access to CONTRATANET, business opportunities opened to small-size and local
         providers, and the effective commitment of public agencies to subscribe to
         CONTRATANET and use it for 100percent of their procurement processes.
    0    Systematic meetings with heads of involved public agencies to discuss and evaluate
         findings, and the dissemination of these findings through the media.

Component 3. Professional Civil Service US$6.3 million
                                             -
With the Civil Service and Administrative Career and Wage Unification and Harmonization of
Public Sector Remunerations Law approved inOctober 2003 (and amended inJanuary 2004) the
GOE took a crucial step to regain control of the wage bill and to promote a more meritocratic
public administration.

The Organic Law establishes a new autonomous body within the Presidency (SENRES) with
responsibility for issuing all civil service regulations and determining any salary increases
(within wage bill parameters set by MEF). However, the data and management tools required to
effectively performthese roles -includingdata on all public employees, their pay, training, posts
and performance evaluations - are not presently available with SENRES or any other central
government agency. The Organic Law assignedto SENRES the responsibility for establishing a
human resource management (HRM) database. However, SENRES does not have the budget or
technical expertise to carry out this task.

This loan component would assist SENRES to develop a National Information System of
Institutional Development, Human Resources and Public Sector Remunerations (SIGRH-
SENRES), infulfillmentof its mandate.

While the SIGRH-SENRES HRM database may later be expanded to cover all government
institutions, inits initial form the HRMsystem will cover approximately 506 central government
ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs). This excludes schools (1,957) and local
governments (983), but covers more than 90 percent of all central government personnel and
expenditures.

Activities to be carried out will include:
    0    Develop software and system design: A design and implementation plan will be devised
         by an inter-ministerial working group composed of policy and IT specialists from
         SENRES, MEF, SIGEF, Ministry of Labor, and the Central Bank, to ensure that SIGRH-
         SENRESrespondsto the needs of these various public sector bodies. Datavalidation will
         be carried out by staff of the HumanResourcesUnits.



                                                  46

    0   Implement informationtechnology indesignatedMDAs.
    0   LinkSENRESto central government agencies(MDAs).
    0   Train staff of human resource units for the operation of SIGRH-SENRES. The staff
        across all 506 MDAs will receive training in the core personnel module of the SIGRH-
        SENRES. In addition, staff of 4 pilot departments will also receive training in the staff
        selection and staff evaluation modules.

Component 4. Efficiency and Accountability inSelected Public Agencies- US$8.2million

This component is aimed at improving efficiency and accountability in selectedpublic agencies.
The selection processwill bedemand-driven and will considerthe following eligibility criteria:
    0   Public Agencies with high fiscal (efficiency) impact (e.g. Petroecuador) or broad-public
        coverage ( e g selectedsocial programs).
    0   Public Agencies seeking broad-based organizational, and/or functional reforms that
        require support in the design and implementation phases, and have resources to partly
        implement the reform so as not to exceed the funding capacity of the IRP and make the
        reforms more sustainable.
    0   Products/processeswhere different agencies interact: business and import permits office;
        motor vehicle registry, sanitary registry are some of the examples where processes are
        heavily bureaucratic and many institutions interact to provide this service to the final
        customer. In these cases, the project can help define the optimal supply and value
        creation chain; redefine and streamline processes; negotiate scope of work of each
        institution involved; and help implement the new processes and structures. The CCCC
        has gained experience in this type of reform, and on the basis of complementary
        international experiencecanbe instrumentalinthe selection and implementation process.

Organizational reforms are aimed at: (i)  organizational restructuring and strengthening, including
process reengineering for greater client orientation and transparency, and simplification of
administrative procedures; (ii)  human resource professionalization, includingjob descriptions of
all positions, strengtheningreporting responsibilities; and (iii) management.
                                                                  change

The processwould follow the sequence detailed below:

a) Diagnostic reviews of the vision, mission, structures, and functions of the selected
agency. Based on the main weaknesses detected, suggest the area(s) to be tackled with a view
toward:
      0   Develop a sharedvision andmission.
      0   Createa sense of urgency for reforms.
      0   Help streamline processesand structures.
      0   Identify and minimizeduplication andfragmentation.
      0   Reduceopportunities for corruption due to cumbersome processeswithin the agency or
          related to other institutions that participate in the flow for the production of a selected
          outcome.




                                                  47

b) Action Plan and Sequencing of institutional reforms. This Plan should frame the reform
process in the context of the objectives and results to be achieved, and should detail the scope
and the sequencing. Among others, the following couldbe addressed:
    0   Carry out a functional and organizational review.
    0   Introduce andor improve information systems, where necessary and adapt them to the
        new mandate, structuresandprocesses.
    0   Achieve a matchbetween personnelprofile and new processrequirements.
    e   Perform personnel profile analysis.
    0   Carry out strategic communication within the entity and outside.
    0   Designprocess implementation and sequence.
    0   Establish benchmarks for institutional and staff performance.

c) Monitoring. The feasibility of proposed reforms and their progress will be analyzed and
approvedby the Steering Committee of the Project; the Civic Control of Corruption Commission
(CCCC), and the Bank.
    e   Implementation will require evidence of commitment and ownership of the selected
        agencies.
    0   The project would provide incentives to pilot agencies meeting the targets of the
        operational plan. When necessary, the project could fund technical assistance and
        training.

This sub-component also includes and active participation of civil society organizations, in the
design and oversight of reforms. As a performance monitoring mechanism the project will
support Citizens' Report Cards to measure user satisfaction for a set of selected agencies
(agencies such as the civil registry and national Food and Drug Administration Registro
Suniturio, as well as-if    selected-key     social services inthe areas of health, education and social
programs meeting the conditions for the use of this methodology).                     Inparticular, this sub-
component will support:


    0   The implementation of national surveys conducted by an independent and qualifiedNGO
        every six months for the duration of the project. The surveys will measure the level of
        users' satisfaction regarding a set of attributes of the selected services, including
        transparency. Stakeholders through focus groups previously prioritize these M&E
        criteria.
    0   The delivery of report cards for each of the services basedon the information gatheredby
        the surveys. The report cards evaluatethe quality of each of the services and its attributes
        at the national and, if applicable, subnational levels, and compare level of satisfaction
        across provinces and across services.
    0   Discussions led by the CCCC and the implementing NGO with managers of the selected
        services and other national authorities to take stock of lessons from the results of the
        Report Cards, evaluate their respective progress report, and identify actions to improve
        the performance of each of the servi~es'~.


l3By systematically gathering and disseminating public feedback, they serve as a "surrogate for competition" for
state-owned monopolies that sometimes lack the incentive to be as responsive as private enterprises to their client's
needs.


                                                      48

     0   The dissemination of the Report Cards to the public and the organization of workshops
         (piloting Community Scorecards in selected municipalities). The fora and workshops
         discuss and validate results, and recommend actions to improve accessibility and quality
         of the servicesuponevaluation.

In addition, and depending on the services identified for reform, this component could support
Participatory Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS), in coordination with the set of
Human Development Programmatic Loans. PETS would gather information on public
expenditure chains, outputs (services delivered) and coverage in those services, as well as their
level of transparency and efficiency. Findings of PETS would then be made available to CCCC,
local governments, communities and civil society organizations as an input to local monitoring
initiatives. Production of baseline information and data flows to track progress of reforms based
on reiterated applications of the Report Cards and PETS would also be supported.

Component 5. Change Management US$5 million
                                         -
The objective is to create the conditions necessary for successful implementation of the project.
To this end, this component is comprised of four sub-components:

a) Project management.
     0   Develop an operational manualto be usedinthe Project Coordination Unit.
     0   Set up the Project Coordination Unit and train officers, where necessary.
     0   Design instruments for effective project management, including financial management
         andprocurement.
     0   Create adequateproject oversight through Steering Committee.

b) Monitoringand evaluation.
     0   Design and implement a M&E system for project monitoring, including an integrated
         financial monitoringsystem.
     0   Determine a baseline for each component and detailed progress indicators, including
         clear monitoringresponsibilities.
     0   Carry out impact evaluations.
     0   Ensure dissemination of M&E results and their continuous integration into project
         implementation.
     0   Promote the use of participatory M&E, such as through user surveys and scorecards.

c) Civil SocietyInvolvement.
     0   Promote civil society participation in all components and major stages of project
         implementation.
     0   Establish civil society observatories for specific components (such as Obsewatorio
         Fiscal).
     0   Strengthenjoint capacity-building of government and civil society in relevant project
         activities.
     0   Foster an active dialogue between civil society and other sectors, and promote civil
         society monitoringcapacity.



                                                49

d) Changemanagement.
   0  Create a sense of urgency for reform based on in-depth diagnostic and leadership.
   0 Develop shared vision and integrated change management strategy.
   0  Engage stakeholders and elaborate and carry out communication strategies to disseminate
      the benefits and first results of reforms and address specific resistance to reform.
   0  Create first visible and high-impact results to generate stronger support of reforms.
   0  Expand support and consensus on reforms in broader circles to consolidate and
      institutionalize reforms.
   0  Monitor change management results andcreate continuous change management culture.




                                                50

                                        Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                                ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

Note: Detailed costing for the project is currently beingprepared. The figures presentedbelow
are estimates.


Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                    Local       Foreign            Total
                                                         U S $million U S $million U S $million
Component 1:Customs Reform                                     0.8          0.8                  1.6
Component 2: Procurement Reform                                1.o          0.9                  1.9
Component 3: Professional Civil Service                        3.8          2.5                  6.3
Component 4: Efficiency andAccountability in                   4.2          4.0                  8.2
SelectedPublic Agencies
Component 5: Change Management                                 3.7          1.3                  5.0
Total Baseline Cost                                           13.5          9.5                 23.0
 Physical Contingencies (5%)                                   0.5          0.3                  0.8
 Price Contingencies (5%)                                      0            0                      0
                                   TotalProjectCosts'         14.0         10.0                 24.0
                             Interest during construction
                                           Front-end Fee       0            0.2                  0.2
                             TotalFinancingRequired           14.00        10.00       24


'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$2million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$22
million. Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes i s 91.66%.


                                      FinancingPlanby Financier



                                                        The
                                 The                   World
                            Government                 Bank              Total

                               us $000
                               Amount                 Amount           Amount
                                               %     US$OOO       %    us $000         %

        I.Foreign1/                     0.0 0.00%        10.00 41.67%       10.00     41.67%
        11. Local
        (Excl. Taxes)                  2.00 8.33%        10.00 41.67%       12.00     50.00%

        111.Taxes                      2.00 8.33%              -      -      2.00      8.33%

                                       4.00 16.66%       20.00 83.34%       24.00 100.00%

11 Includesfront-endfee in the amountof US$200,000.



                                                   51

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                             ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

Intable 13, implementingagencies for individualcomponentsare shown. Counterpart will bethe
Ministry of Finance. The project structure is shown intable 14. Counterpart will be the Ministry
of Finance. A Project Coordination Unit will be set up under the leadership of the Subsecretary
for Economic Policy. A SteeringCommittee will be created, composedof an executive, technical
andadvisory level.


          Component                     Institution                  ExecutingAgency
1:Customs Reform               Customs Agency (CAE)            Customs Agency (CAE)
2: Procurement Reform          Ministry of Economy and         Sub-secretary of Economic
                               Finance (to be confirmed)      Policy (to beconfirmed)
3: Professional Civil Service  Civil Service Agency            Civil Service Units in public
                               (SENRES)                        institutions (URHI's)
4: Efficiency and              SelectedAgencies                Selectedagencies (candidates:
Accountability in Selected                                     Petroecuador, Civil Registry,
Public Agencies                                                Sanitary Registry, among
                                                               others)
5: ChangeManagement            Ministry of Economy and         Technical Coordinating Unit
                               Finance


Table 9. Project Structure

                                                                  Executive
                                                       I   I      Technical
                      !I                                   I    AdvisorvBoard      !I
                                      I                    I                       I




                                 PROJECT
                              COORDINATION
                                UNIT(MEF)




                Technical                             Financeand
                Coordinator                          Administration




                                                52

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                             ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

A Financial Management Assessment (FMA) of the Sub-secretaria de Politica Econo'micaand
Sub-secretaria Administrativa within the Ministry of Economy andFinances (MEF) inEcuador
was performed in order to evaluate the proposed financial management arrangements and the
Implementing Entity's capacity to provide the Bank with accurate, reliable and timely
information regarding resourcesand expenditures. Thejoint assessment (performed on site from
March 29 to April 1, 2004 with the Procurement Capacity Assessment) was conducted in
accordance with OPBP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of Financial Management
Arrangements inWorld Bank Financed Projects.

Field work included discussions with government officials and financial staff, and encompassed
a review of the proposed organizational structure and staffing of both units, flow of funds
arrangements, accounting policies and procedures, budgeting, information systems, internal
controls, financial reporting and monitoring, auditing systems and the impact of procurement
arrangements.

OverallSummaryand Conclusion:

Subsequentto the assessment visit the project has continued working to define the basic features
of the arrangements, and the terms of reference and professional profiles of key positions have
been submitted to the Bank for review.

The key capacity constraints which increase the project risk profile include 1) the lack of an
integrated financial and monitoring system, which would adequately support monitoring and
control during implementation, and 2) very limited experience in managing Bank- financed
investment projects.

Financial Management staff will continue to work with the project to provide necessary guidance
inorder to ensure that the necessarycorrective actions are taken to ensure adequatearrangements
prior to effectiveness.

CountryFinancialManagementCapacity:

A challenging political environment, conflicting interests and strong regional divisiveness have
precluded successive governments from any significant commitment of reform that could permit
this resource-rich nation to achieve its potential growth and reducepoverty.

Ecuador is slowly but progressively making advances in financial management reform and
transparency. Legislative reforms began as early as the `70s and the LOAFYC, the financial
administration legislation, was considered a pioneer. However, since the `80s there has been a
rapid proliferation of laws and norms, which has caused "normative chaos"- the framework i s
fragmented and incomplete.




                                                 53

CFAA preliminary results indicate:

        Budgetin% Overall the rules that govern the budget process are not clearly defined and
        this has resulted in unrealistic budgets, which fail to reconcile policy objectives and
        available resources.
        Accounting and Financial Reporting;: The GOE does not have access to timely, complete
        and accurate accounting information which reflects the financial health of the
        government and which can be used as an indispensable tool for decision making and
        management control. This leads to problems in assessing impact of expenditures and
        targeting future expenditureson poverty reduction.
        Internal Control and External Audit: Audit functions are not directed towards efficiency
        gains but rather towards ex-ante and ex-post compliance. No external audits of the
        National Consolidate Accounts have ever been performed by the CGE or other private
        firm.
        Independent Oversight of Public Financial Administration: There is insufficient pressure
        for improvement of the quality of public expenditure and an increased risk of
        mismanagement and fraud.

Reliance of Country Systems:

Integrated System of Financial Management (SIGEF). Since the early 1990's successive
Governments have viewed the modernization of public financial management as crucial to
aligning expenditure more closely with policy priorities. Through the Bank-financed MOSTA
project which closed in March 2001 and the WB SAL referred to above, SIGEF was designed, a
debt management system was implemented (SIGADE), national budgets are being constructed
with inputs from spending ministries and the Ministry of Finance has established an office to
coordinate the financial managementsysteminthe public sector.

The implementation of the SIGEF has advanced, and has expanded to over 60 entities including
line ministries and their provincial offices, autonomous entities, sub-national governments and
affiliated entities. An information consolidation program has been completed and this module
has been usedto prepareconsolidated financial accounts as well as the last two national budgets.

InFebruary of 2002, the World Bank Ecuador Public Sector Financial Management operation
(US$ 13.3 MM) was approved to support the consolidation of reforms in financial management
and control. This operation became effective in September 2003 and the main objectives are to
(1) expand the coverage of the SIGEF (2) upgrade the technological base (3) develop the CGE's
audit capacity and (4) establish organizational functional support to ensure sustainability of the
reform. In order to progressively move towards reliance on country systems, the PCU will
implement the SIGEF loan module and work to identify existing capacity constraints of this
module, which canbe modifiedinfuture versions of the system.

Mitigation of Capacity Constraints:

As a result of the assessment and the various interviews conducted, a time-bound Financial
Management (FM) action plan has been proposed inorder to addressthe capacity constraints and



                                                54

mitigate the risks identified. Such considerations led us to define the project risk (inherent and
control) profile as high and recommend a close supervision and monitoring, at least during the
appraisal mission and leading up to effectiveness, so as to ensure that the necessary actions are
taken. Notwithstanding, successful completion of the FM Action Plan prior to effectiveness
would result in an upgrade of the project risk profile to moderate. The following action items
are therefore consideredcritical:

    a   Prior to effectiveness: 1)hnplementation of Financial Management System;
                    .
            o 2) Finalization of the OperationsManual; and
            o 3) Satisfactory implementation of the other FMAction Planitems including
                    ..   a) Fine tuning of the institutional arrangements and mechanisms for
                        coordination between the agencies involvedinimplementation;
                        b) Submission of terms of referencefor the financial audit; and
                        c) capacity to generate Financial MonitoringReports.

SupervisionDuringImplementation.The project should be monitored on a semi- annual basis
inthe first two years of implementation andthereafter through at least one supervision visit each
year. Furthermore, the audit reports will be relied uponand the Annual Audit Report Review will
highlight the adequacy of internal controls, integrity of financial reporting and efficiency in the
use of projects funds. Desk reviews will also be performed on the semi-annual FMRs, prepared
inform and substance acceptableto the Bank, which would be submittednot later than 45 days
after the end of each six-month period.

Audit Arrangements. The annual audit reports, covering the project financial statements shall
be prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and would be
furnishedto the Bank not later than six months after the end of eachyear. The terms of reference
shall be prepared in accordance with current regional guidelines. The process of selection and
contracting shall be overseen by the Controller General, who will coordinate to ensure selection
of eligible audit firms, delivery of acceptable reports within the time frames set out in the legal
agreement and adequate quality control.

DisbursementArrangements. Disbursementswill be transaction based(i.e. against Statements
of expenditure (SOEs), full documentation, direct payments or special commitments).            The
project will have access to funds advancedby the Bank to an Special Account (SA) which will
be maintained and operated by the project PCU in MEF at the Central Bank in United States
dollars (called TE Account within the Central Bank) for processing disbursements to
beneficiaries for those eligible expenditures under the project activities. Nonetheless, given that,
at present, the Republic of Ecuador has a pending refund to the Bank for SA advances made
under another closed loan, the project will need to receive a notification from the Bank
authorizing the opening of such SA to proceed requesting Bank's funds. At such time, the Bank
may deposit, upon borrower's request, an amount of $2,000,000 as authorized allocation. This
amount should be limited to the amount of $1,000,000 until the disbursements from the loan
account exceed $5,000,000.

Deposits into the SA, and payments made from the SA should be made in accordance with the
provisions set out in the Legal Agreement. In the case of replenishments of the SA authorized



                                                  55

allocation, the project should submit monthly withdrawal applications, or at a minimum on a
quarterly basis at beginning of implementation.

To facilitate payments, which could not be made directly from the SA using the automatic
paymentkransfer banking system, the borrower may open other account in a commercial bank to
which transfers from the SA could be made for immediate payments to consultants or suppliers
of goods and services.

The project PCU in MEF will prepare and consolidate eligible expenditures in withdrawal
applications accompanied by the supporting documentation in accordance with Bank
disbursementprocedures, which will be submittedto the Bank on a regular basis.

Upon request from the Borrower, and subject to the Bank's approval, withdrawal applications,
for amounts above 20 percent of the deposit inthe SA, for direct payments could be requestedto
the Bank for payments to consultants andsuppliersof goods and services of project activities.

Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Withdrawal from the loan account could be made
on the basis of SOEs for the following expenditures: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding
$250,000 equivalent; (b) consulting services from individuals and firms under contracts not
exceeding $50,000 and $100,000 equivalent respectively; and (c) all training activities.

All supporting documents for which withdrawal applications from the loan account are made on
the basis of SOEs, the borrower will retain full documentation (including contracts, purchase
orders, invoices, receipts andany other documents evidencing such expenditures) andmake them
available for review and examination by Bank staff in supervision missions and to the external
auditors when performingthe audit of the project accounts.

                             Table A: Allocation of Loan Proceeds


     ExpenditureCategory                         Amount inUS$         Financing
                                                 million              Percentage
     1.Goods                                            4.0                  90%
     2. Consultant Services                            12.5                  85%
     3. Training                                        2.5                  85%
     4. Unallocated                                     0.8

     Total Project Costs with Bank Financing           19.8
     Front-end fee                                      0.2
     Total                                              20




                                               56

                             Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                             ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

A. General

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with txle Woi 1Barlk's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under lBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description of various
items under different expenditure category i s describedbelow. For each contract to be financed
by the Loadcredit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need
for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The ProcurementPlan
will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procuredunder this project would include: computer equipment,
purchase of software and licenses and related services and data connections. The procurement
will be done usingBank's SBD for all ICB and NationalSBD agreedwith (or satisfactory to) the
Bank.

Procurement of non-consulting services: The Project will procure services for implementation
of a communication strategy, including the dissemination and publication of reform outcomes in
order to address resistance to such reforms. Logistics services for organization and conducting
of dissemination workshops, conferences, seminars and staff training will be procured following
price comparison (shopping) procedures of at least three quotations from qualified local
providers, and using project standard documents acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for
procurement of non-consulting services are not expected to be greater than $100,000 equivalent
per contract.

Selection of Consultants and Training: The project will hire consulting firms and individuals
for the implementation of specific project components such as Custom Reforms, Civil Service
Reforms and Procurement Reforms.          Consulting services will be procured for the design,
development of customized software (which will be intellectual property of the government) and
implementation of information management systems at different public entities; provision of
technical assistance and preparation of technical studies for specific sector reforms; training of
public staff to be engaged in the implementation of custom reforms and civil service reforms
(SENRES), and management and operation of the E-Government procurement system
(CONTRATANET). Other consulting services for the carryingput of user surveys, focus groups
and the performance of annual project financial and procurement audits will be procured out of
selection of consultant processes for employment of firms and individual consultants. Training
will include also technical visits to several countries inthe Region with successfulexperiences at
the implementation of E-Government procurement systems and control systems for their likely
adoption, including the performance of specific feasibility studies prior to selection and such
adoption. Consulting services for employment of firms will be procured with the use of QCBS




                                                 57

methods, while services for hiring of individual consultants through the Individual Consultant
methodfollowing the procedures set forth inparagraphs5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Short lists of consultants for services estimatedto cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract
may be composed entirely of national consultants inaccordancewith the provisions of paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Operational Costs: Operational Costs will include costs incurred by the project executing
agencies and the PCU for expenses regarding systems maintenance and equipment insurance.
The professional staff assigned to the PCU to carry out technical and administrative tasks and
services of a continued nature in support of project management and coordination will be mostly
financed by the government as counterpart funding for project coordination and administration.
The government will hire project staff only with prior approval of IBRD. The loan will not
finance other operational costs. These would be covered with counterpart Funds.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).The
agency will be staffed by a Project Coordinator, two Procurement Officers, three Financial
Management Officers and a Legal Specialist. The Project Implementation Manual will include,
in addition to methods andprocurement procedures, andprior-review requirements, the SBDs to
be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for goods procured and will
include specific provisions on fraud and corruption on project procurement documents.

An update of assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurement
actions for the project was carried out by Keisgner D. Alfaro, Sr. Procurement Specialist, on
March 29-31, 2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the
project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for procurement Officer and
the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration andfinance.

Most of the issues/risks concerning the procurement component for implementation of the
project have been identified and include: i)limited prior experience of the PCU and project
beneficiary agencies inthe implementation of Bank-financed projects and insufficientknowledge
of Bank procurement guidelines and procedures; ii)limited skilled and experienced staff to
manageBank-financed procurement; iii)some degree of uncertainty on both the PCU's capacity
and beneficiary agencies' to manage efficiently procurement processes, as provided in the Bank
Guidelines; and iv) unavailability of an integrated project management information system to
carry out monitoring, control and reporting tasks for efficient project coordination and decision
making. Corrective measureshave beenagreed and are described inaProcurement Improvement
Action Plan attached as Annex 1 to the Agency Capacity Assessment Report. This plan was
updatedduringthe appraisal mission with targets set for negotiations and effectiveness.

The overall project risk for procurement is HIGH.




                                                 58

C. Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation, which
provided the basis for contract estimated prices, the procurement thresholds and prior-review
thresholds. This plan has been agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team on May 14,
2004 and i s available at the World Bank Headquarters, IBuilding, Room 8-122. It will also be
available in the Project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The ProcurementPlan will
be updatedin agreement with the Project Team on an annual basis and/or, as required, to reflect
the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

D.Prior Review Thresholds

Thresholds for Bank prior review are indicated in Table B below. They correspond to those
assigned to high risk agencies, consistent with thresholds issued by the RPA Office for LAC
Countries.




                                               59

                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review'

                        Contract Value                          Contracts Subject to
Expenditure Category    Threshold            Procurement Method Prior Review
                        (US$ thousands)                         (US$ thousands)
Works (not financed)    --                   --                 _-
2.Goods and Services
                        Contract = > 500     ICB                All contracts.

                        100< Contract <500   NCB                Each contract estimated
                                                                to cost $250 equivalent
                                                                or more; and first two
                                                                contracts.
                                                                Post review: random
                                                                sample of contracts and
                                                                review of procurement
                                                                plan.

                        Contract <= 100      Shopping S (N)     Firsttwo contracts, and
                                                                annual review of
                                                                procurementplan.
                                                                Post Review: random
                                                                sample of contracts.

3. Consultant Services
and Training

Firms                   Contract = > 100     QCBS               All TOR, RFP, short
                                                                 lists o f firms, full review
                                                                of evaluation reports,
                                                                 and draft contract for
                                                                contracts with estimated
                                                                value o f $100equivalent
                                                                 or more.

                                                                 Only TORS
                        Contract < 100       QCBS                Post review: random
                                                                 sample o f contracts, and
                                                                 review o f selection plan.


                                                                 All TOR, CVs and form
Individuals             Contract = > 50      I C                 o f agreement for
                                                                 contracts estimated to
                                                                 cost $50 equivalent or
                                                                 more.

                        Contract < 50        I C                 Only TOR.

                                                                 Post Review: random
                                                                 sample o f contracts and
                                                                 review o f selection plan.




                                               60

'Thresholds generally differ by countryand project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of ProcurementDocumentation"
andcontact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.

                    Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$14 million


E. FrequencyofProcurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended one supervision mission every six
months to visit the field and to carry out post reviews andannualaudits of procurement actions.

Attachment 1

Details of the Procurement Arrangement involvinginternationalcompetition.

    1. Goods andnon-consulting services.

        (a) List of contract Packages, which will be procured following ICB andDirect
       contracting:

   1             2                 3              4          5          h          7         8              9

  Ref.       Contract         Estimated    Procurement      P-Q     Domestic    Review    Expected      Comment
  No.      (Description)         cost         Method                Preference     by       Bid -
                                                                     (@no)        Bank     Opening
                                                                                (Prior I    Date
                                                                                  Post)
 2.1.8   Equipmentand            600,000        ICB                               Prior    YEAR 3
         software (Local
         server, personal
         computers,
         printers and
         software,
         including
         licences,
         communications
         and mirror
         systems).
 3.3.1   Computer               1,627,000       ICB          NO       YES        PRIOR     YEAR 3    Acquisitionof
         servers and                                                                                 equipment and
         re1ated                                                                                     materials.
         equipment,
         including
         personal
         computers,
         materials to
         installroom
         appropriatefor
         SIGRH-
         SENRES
         equipment.



                                                      61

(b)NCB Contracts estimatedto cost above 250,000 percontract; the two first contracts awarded
under NCB procedures; the two first contracts awardedunderPrice Comparison (Shopping); and
all Direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

2.      ConsultingServices.

    (a) List of Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms.

                               3            4                      6          7

         Assignment            Estimated     Selection  Review     Expected    Comments
~

                               cost          Method     by Bank    Proposals
                                                        (Prior I   Submission
                                                        Post)      Date
       Diagnostic and action       230,OOC    QCBS       PRIOR      YEAR 1    Study and preparation of
I      /\"`em.
       plan for Customs IT                                                    m action plan for IT
                                                                              system, includes the
                                                                              selection of consulting
                                                                              firm.
                                    90,00(    QCBS       PRIOR      YEAR 1    The consulting firm has
       development of security                                                to design the procedures
       measuresand training.                                                  that will be applied.
                                    60,00(    QCBS                  YEAR 1    The PCU will contract a
       implementation of                                                      consultant firm. The task
       system for judicial                                                    includes design or
                                                                              modification of existing
                                                                              software, and its
                                                                              implementation. Ifthe
                                                                              task is to modify an
                                                                              existing software, the
                                                                              proposal could include
                                                                              the software cost. The
                                                                              consultant firm must haw
                                                                              knowledge of thejudicial
                                                                              procedures of Ecuador as
                                                                              well as of legal and
                                                                              regulatory aspectsrelated
                                                                              to Customs services.
                                    40,00(    QCBS                   YEAR 2

                                    30,00(    QCBS                   YEAR 2   The plan includes: (i) cos
       plan.                                                                  for retirement for
                                                                              personnel, (ii) number of
                                                                              personnel to be included
                                                                              `inthe retirement plan,
                                                                              l(iii) aspects,(iv)
                                                                                   legal
                                                                              `strategies.It could be
                                                                              lassignedto an individual

                                   500.00(    QCBS       PRIOR       YEAR 1   The task includes the
        and training of                                                        software design and
        Information                                                            implementation, the




                                                   62

I-                                 3          1           5

Ref.    Descriptionof              Estimated   Selection Review    Sxpected   Comments
No.     Assignment                 cost        Method    by Bank   'roposals
                                                          [PriorI  iubmission
                                                         Post)     )ate
           ecurity systems and                                               designof administrative
           ontingency plan.                                                  procedures.It will be
                                                                             assignedto a consulting
                                                                             firm.
1.5.4                                  240,OOC  QCBS       PRIOR     YEAR 3
           ~~
        inalysis and
        nplementation of
        :ustoms processesand
           rocedures.

1.5.5      Ither studies.              200.00c  QCBS       PRIOR     YEAR 1



2.1.7.3    'raining for Customs         20,ooc  QCBS                 YEAR 2   Training for the
           lfficials.                                                         employeesor
                                                                              professionalswho will bc
                                                                              assignedto the institutiot
                                                                              The task includesall
                                                                             Itraining costs.
2.2.2      Iesignand development       350,00(  QCBS       PRIOR     YEAR 3  lThe PCUwill contract a

           Ifsoftware(registry of                                             consulting firm
           aoviders, security, up-                                            specializedindesignand
           ;radingof statistics).                                             implementation of an
                                                                              IntegratedSolution. This
                                                                              includes: (i) software
                                                                                           the
                                                                              and its applications; (ii)
                                                                              the strategyfor its
                                                                              implementation, based o
                                                                              the relevant studiesto be
                                                                              prepared; (iii)
                                                                              recommendationsfor the
                                                                              acquisition of the
                                                                              necessary hardware, as
                                                                              well as its quality and
                                                                              quantity, and (iv) trainin
                                                                              for subsequent
                                                                              implementation in other
                                                                              entities.
2.3.1      ?ethnical audits for        200,00(  QCBS       PRIOR    YEAR 1-4  One contract, beginning
           :ONTRATANET                                                        in year 2 and ending at
            ystem operation.                                                  year 5. Technical
                                                                              assistance for the CNC.
                                                                              The task would include
                                                                              the following activities:
                                                                              - evaluation of the
                                                                              implementation and
                                                                              operational aspects;
                                                                              - recommendationsfor
                                                                              the improvement of
                                                                              operational aspectsbase



                                                     63

1       2                        3           4         J
                                                       L         6         17
                                                                           I

Ref.    Description of           Estimated   Selection Review    Expected    Comments
No.     Assignment               cost        Method    by Bank   Proposals
                                                       (Prior I  Submission
                                                       Post)     Date
                                                                            on statisticsandreports;
                                                                            - technical assistanceto
                                                                            the CNC for
                                                                            improvement of its
-Designof                                                                   operational performance.
.1.1              SIGRH-             300,OOC  QCBS      PRIOR     YEAR 1-4 This step involves the
       SENRESdatabase                                                       contract of a specialized
       nodules, including                                                   consulting firm.The task
        ntegration with major                                               includes the designof
       government ITsystems;                                                database modulesand
       support in                                                           proceduresfor the
        mplementation phase.                                                integrationof IT Systems
                                                                            in other government
                                                                            agencies.
`L2.1  Licenses, software,         2,500,OOC  QCBS      PRIOR     YEAR 2-4  The PCUwill contract a
       :ethnicalsupport,
       installation,testing,
       aanuals, software
       :raining for SENRES
       and HR staff (an integral
       solution will be
       :ontracted).




-rraining                                                                   necessary.
1.2.2            in software and    1,ooo,ooc QCBS      PRIOR     YEAR 1-3 ]Trainingfor SENRES
       systems.                                                             and HR-personnel
                                                                             (approx. 2,000 people).
-rechnical
i.5.1             assistance for     660,OOC  QCBS      PRIOR     YEAR 2-4   Technical Assistance and
        SENRES and URHIs.                                                    training for SENRES and
                                                                             URHIs, including
                                                                             database specialistsand
                                                                             support for
                                                                             implementation of Law
                                                                             NO.2003-17 (R.O. NO.
-
'.1.1.1 3perational diagnostics      300,OOC  QCBS      PRIOR
        md reformdesign for
        Petroecuador
        xocurement system.
'.1.1.2 [mplementationof             600,OOC  QCBS      PRIOR
        ieforms.




                                                  64

1         2                                                      I -
                                                                 I          I '
                                                                            I
Ref.      Description of          Estimated   Selection Review    Expected   Comments
No.       Assignment              cost        Method    by Bank   Proposals
                                                        (Prior /  Submission

I.1.2.1 Designanddevelopment        3,000,000  QCBS
         of software and training
        for Petroecuador
        enterprise resource
        planning.
1. 1.3.1 Operational diagnostics      200,000  QCBS      PRIOR
         and reform design.
1.1.3.2 Implementationof              400,000  QCBS      PRIOR
        reforms.
1.2.1.1 Businessprocess                30,000  QCBS
         reengineeringfor civil
         registryreorganization
         and service delivery
         modernization.
1.2.1.2 Implementation.                30,000  QCBS

1.2.3.1 Businessprocess                30,000  QCBS
         reengineeringfor
         PensionPaymentsin
         IESS.
1.2.3.2 Implementation.                30,000  QCBS

1.2.4.1 Businessprocess
        I                              30,000  QCBS
         reengineeringfor land

                                       30,000  QCBS

1.2.4.1 ]Businessprocess              960,000  QCBS                          Various contracts for
                                                                             about 21processes.
                                      960,000  QCBS                          Various contracts for
                                                                             about 21processes.
1.2.4.3 Training.                     320,000  QCBS                          Various contracts for
                                                                             about 21processes.
                                     1,000,000 QCBS                          This sub-component
         implementationof a                                                  includes different
         results-basedmonitoring                                             contracts and audit
         system(including                                                    contracts, basedon the
         performanceaudits).                                                 results of the previous

        I                                                                    studies.
i.3.2 /Scorecards(Citizen             300,000  QCBS      PRIOR               The consultant will
                                                                             preparethe score card.
                                                                             Surveysindifferent cities
                                                                             and institutionsinvolved
                                                                             in the program. The
                                                                             programwill involve
                                                                             approximately 20 small-
                                                                             scale contracts within
                                                                             four years (this includes
                                                                             surveys, focus groups and
                                                                             other methodologies).



                                                   65

 Ref.    Description of                                 Review       Expected    Comments
 No.     Assignment                          Method     by Bank      Proposals
                                                        (Prior I     Submission
                                                        Post')       Date
i.3.4   Designand                                        PRIOR                 The numberof contracts
        implementation of civil                                                depends on the results of
        society monitoring                                                     the application of other
        instruments.                                                            instrumentsand

i.4.1   Diagnostics, integrated
        change management
        plan, stakeholder
        engagement,
        communication
        strategies, M&E,
        Iconso%dation.                                              I          I
i.4.2.1 /Publications to                                                       [Publications (designs).
        disseminateproject
         activities and impacts.

(b) Services provided by individual consultants and estimated to cost above US$ 50,000 per
contract, and sole source selection will be subject to Bank prior review. Services for
employment of consultants firms estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, and single
source selection of consultants (firms) will be subject to Bank prior review.

(c) Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract may be composedentirely of national consultants in accordancewith the provisions of
paragraph2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                 66

                              Annex 9. EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                               INSTITUTIONALREFORMPROJECT



                                  PresentValue of Flows14           Fiscal Impact
                                  Economic          Financial       Taxes            Subsidies
                                  Analvsis          Analvsis
                                       4
Project Costs: US$20.0           NA                 NA              NA               NA
million


Summaryof benefitsandcosts:

The proposed operation will focus on institutional strengthening and it is therefore difficult to
quantify the project's outputs and benefits. In the same vein, its cost effectiveness is associated
with improvements in public management through greater efficiency and transparency, as
measuredthrough fiscal savings, effectiveness and efficiency gains. However, these are difficult
to quantify.       Direct fiscal savings only materialize significantly in the medium term;
effectiveness gains are the result of a combination of reforms, not a single action; andefficiency
gains can only be approximated using broad estimates of the reduction of administrative costs
per unit of output.

The most noteworthy economic impact is effectiveness gains. These will result from (i)             Customs
reform that will permit a more effective revenue management and more effective monitoring,
control and auditing of financial flows; (ii)      procurement reform, which will reduce transaction
costs, leakages and other inefficiencies in the use of public resources and lead to a higher cost-
quality ratio inprocurement through the establishmentof atransactional procurement system(iii)
a civil service management system to avoid misallocations and leakages in the wage bill; (iv)
organizational reforms of selected public agencies to enhance their efficiency, transparency and
service-delivery capacity, leading to a more effective resource allocation and saving; and (v)
closer scrutiny of public performance from civil society groups resulting in a more transparent
andresults-oriented management of public resources.

The financial impact can be measured through a mix of fiscal savings and efficiency gains.
Efficiency gains are reduced administrative costs incurred for obtaining a given unit of output.
Most of these are also related to the Customs, procurement and civil service reforms and the
extension of selected reforms to key public agencies. The financial impact i s discussed in the
following table, which also includes the social gains of the project per component.




14.The difference between the present value of financial and economic flows cannot be estimated, and much less
explained by taxes and subsidies.


                                                      67

                 FinancialImpactofthe InstitutionalReformProject

Components           FiscalImnact            EfficiencvGains          SocialGains
1.Customs     Increased revenue, trade, and Improvedcontrol and Zustoms observatory
Reform        competitiveness due to        auditing and          will monitor reforms
              heightened taxpayer           streamlining of       2nd can increase
              compliance, lower inventory   processeswill result  support for reforms;
              requirements due to reduced   inenhanced            more effective and
              time of imports inCustoms,    performance through   sfficient Customs
              lower costs of imports and    decreased             will benefit the
              exports and reduced           administrative costs  population as a
              corruption.                   per unit of output.   whole, including the
              At presentthe import gap                            poor.
              amounts to roughly US$
              1500milliondollars, which
              could generate 90 million
              dollars induties (6% average
              duty) and US$ 180million
              dollars in VAT (import gap
              measuredby MEF).Current
              daily revenue inCustoms is
              approximately US 5 million
              dollars per day. A 10%
              percent increase in revenues
              due to reformefforts would
              represent 500,000 dollars per
              day.
2.Procurement Increased savings from        Improved              Reduced transaction
Reform        efficient, transparent and    performance and       costs and more
              competitive selection of      effectiveness of      competitive
              bidders, due to the           procurement system    procurement allows
              elimination of unproductive   through clearer       access to
              investment and wasted         responsibilitiesand   procurement to
              resourcesfrom corruption      transformationinto    earlier disadvantaged
              and transaction costs.        electronic            bidders; reductionof
                                            transactional system; corruption frees
              According to MEF, central     decreased operational resources for social
              government procurement will costs per unit of       investment;
              be approximately US$ 110      output.               transparent
              million dollars in 2004                             procurement makes
              (excluding Petroecuador and                         state more
              other autonomous entities).                         accountable to
              Along these lines, savings of                       citizens.
              20% due to efficient and
              transparent selection of
              bidders could result in 22
              million dollars in savings,
              aside from other benefits.
              According to WTO, 10to
              15% of GDP i s spent



                                            68

                 regularly inpublic sector
                 procurement, excluding
                 defense exDenditures.
                 Increased savings from an      Enhanced              hcreased
                 enhancedcapacity to manage     productivity gains    iccountability and
                 human resources through an     from the adoption of  support of civil
                 HRh4database.                  a modern              jervice reforms.
                 Current government             management
                 expenditure in public sector   technology tool and
                 payroll amounts to roughly     timely access to
                 US$2 billion, almost 30% of    decision-making
                 total government               information;
                 expenditures. A US$20          streamlined
                 dollar increase inthe teacher  proceduresensure
                 payroll had a cost of US$      greater
                  173 millionto the budget      administrative
                 (according to the Fiscal       efficiency.
                 Observatory). This i s only
                 one example where payroll
                 costs could be reduced if
                 govemment possessed a
                 trustworthy database.
4. ESJiciencyand Savings due to organization    Reducedoperational    Greater user
Accountability inreengineering for leaner       andadministrative     satisfaction with
Selected Public  structures and streamlined     costs inservice       service delivery and
Agencies         processes result inreduced     delivery, greater     greater support of
                 administrative costs, greater  effectiveness and     reformddemandfor
                 managementefficiency and       efficiency of service additional reforms.
                 improved service delivery      delivery through
                 and reduced transaction costs  organizational
                 for users. InPetroecuador      reforms.
                 alone, according to some
                 experts, the institution did
                 not materialize gains of the
                 order of US$2100 million
                 dollars due to poor decisions
                  inthe allocation of resources.
                 Savings due to productive,     Greater performance   Increased civil
Management       cost-effective and sustainable and enhanced          society engagement,
                 investments in four            managementof four     access to information
                  substantial project            substantial          indecision-making
                 components.                    components through    processes, consensus
                                                M&E,change            and ownership over
                                                 managementand        the reformagenda.
                                                civil society
                                                participation.




                                                 69

                                      Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                                   ECUADOR: ECInstitutional Reform

This projecttriggers none of the Bank's environmentalor safeguardpolicies.

    Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                         Yes                   No
    EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                            [I                     [XI
    NaturalHabitats(OP/BP 4.04)                                                        [I                     [XI
    PestManagement(OP4.09)                                                             [I                     [XI
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP4.11)                               11                     [XI
    Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                               E l                    [XI
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                 [I                     [XI
    Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                11                     [XI
    Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                        [I                     [XI
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                           [I                     [XI
    Projectson InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP7.50)                                   [I                     [XI




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputedareas


                                                            70

                       Annex 11:ProjectPreparationandSupervision
                          ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform


                                                 Planned                     Actual
PCNreview                                                                 11March2004
Initial PID to PIC                                                        10March2004
InitialISDS to PIC                                                        10March2004
Appraisal                                     22 April 2004               27 April 2004
Negotiations                                  29 April 2004              17-20May 2004
Board/RVPapproval                             22 June 2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                December2004
Planneddate of mid-termreview               December2006
Plannedclosingdate                          December2008

Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the project: Sub-secretaryof EconomicPolicy in
the Ministry of Economyand Finance (MEF).


Bankfunds expendedto date on projectpreparation:
    1. Bankresources:USD 180,000
    2. Trust funds: USD0
    3. Total: USD 180,000

EstimatedApprovaland Supervisioncosts:
    1. Remainingcoststo approval: (USD-20,000)
    2. Estimatedannualsupervisioncost: USD 120,000




                                              71

                           Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                            ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform



A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Customs Modernization Plan (CAE, 2004)
Human ResourcesModernization Plan (SENRES, 2004)
ProcurementPlan
B. BankStaffAssessments
MOSTA Completion Report (ICR)
Country Financial and Fiduciary Analysis (CFAA)
Country ProcurementAssessmentReport (CPAR)
Poverty Assessment Report (2004)
InitiatingMemorandum for Fiscal Consolidation andCompetitive Growth Structural Adjustment
Loan (FCCGL-11)
Publication "Foundations for Institutional Reform inEcuador":
        Civil Service & Human ResourceManagement (Jeffrey Rinne)
    0   Anti-Corruption inCustoms Agency (EnriqueFanta)
    0   Public Procurement (EnriqueFanta)
    0   The Costs of Corruption (Nancy Brune)
        A Note on the PoliticalBackground to Public-Sector ReforminEcuador (Geoffrey
        Shepherd)
    0   Civil Society Organizations (Jorge Salazar)


C. Other
Civil Service Law
ProcurementLaw




                                               72

                                         Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                             ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

                                                                                                                         Differencebetween
                                                                                                                         expectedandactual
                                                                Original Amount in US$Millions                             disbursements

Project ID    FY   Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO63644      2002  EC Power&Comm.Sect Modemiz.&Rural           23.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     20.08     14.61        0.00
                   Services
PO72527      2002  EC-Power&Comm.Sctrs Modmiz.&Rural            0.00      0.00      0.00     2.84     0.00     2.75        1.52       0.00
                   Services
PO74218      2002  EC Public SectorFinancialManagement         13.86      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     12.18       8.40       0.00
PO39437      2002  EC RURALPOVERTY (PROLOCAL)                  25.20      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     21.90      -3.30       0.00
PO49924      2001  EC Rural Water Supply & Sanitation          32.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     21.52     18.66        0.00
PO64045      2000  EC FinSectorTA Ln                           10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      8.18       7.85       0.00
PO39084      1998  EC- HEALTHSERVICES                         45.00       0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     25.90     25.90       24.30
                   MODERNIZATIONPROJ.
PO07135      1998  EC AGRIC CENSUS & INFO                      20.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.04      1.10      -3.66       0.00
PO07131      1997  EC AG RESEARCH                              21.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     1.20      4.84       6.04       4.84
                                                     Total:  190.06       0.00      0.00     2.84     1.24    118.45     76.02       29.14




                                                               ECUADOR
                                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillionsof US Dollars


                                                                Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                        IFC

        FY Approval   Company                      Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.
         1998/03      FavoritaFruit                15.00        0.00       0.00        0.00     10.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
        1999          LaUniversal                  8.20         0.00       5.00        0.00      8.20      0.00       5.00       0.00
        2004          SFB                          2.00         0.00       0.00        0.00      2.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
         1997         Agrocapital                  3.50         0.00       0.00        0.00      3.50      0.00       0.00       0.00
         1998         Concessionaria               11.50        0.97       0.00       15.00      2.93      0.00       0.00       3.82
         1999         FV Ecuacobre                 3.13         0.00       4.00        0.00      3.13      0.00       4.00       0.00

                                  Total portfilio:  43.33       0.97       9.00       15.00     29.76      0.00       9.00       3.82




                                                                              ApprovalsPendingCommitment

                       FY Approval    Company                             Loan        Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                           Total pendingcommittment:      0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                     73

                                                  Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                                           ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform
                                                                 Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
                                                       Ecuador & Carib.  income       levelopment diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                             t3l     527      2,411              Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlasmethod, US$)                           $450    3,280     1,390
GNI(Atlas method, US$billions)                             19.0   1,727     3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population ph)                                              19       15        1.0
Laborforce ph)                                             3.0      2.2        12     ;NI                              Gross
                                                                                      er
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available,                                       apita                         nrollment
Poverty(%ofpopu
Urbanpopulation   r                      vertyline)
                                                            64       76        49
Lifeexpectancyat bi                                         70        71       69
Infant mortality (per~OOOlivebirths)                                 27        30
Childmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                                9         11        Access to improvedwater source
Access to animproved water source fiofpopulatlon)                    86        81
Illiteracy(%ofpopulationage is+)                             8        n        13
Gross pnmaryenrollment (%of school-age population)          115     t30        in      -Ecuador
   Male                                                     115      t31       in            Lowr-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                   115     P8         la    1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                 1982     1992    2001     2002
                                                                                     Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             P,305.5    213.1    210       24.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                      252     212     25.7
Eports of goods andservicesiGDP                    211     315     26.7                              Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                                 25.0    20.9
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                          778     18.6    20.4
Current account baiance/GDP                        00      -0.1     -2.4      -5.0   Domestic
Interestpayments/GDP                               00      0.2       3.3      2.7    savings                       Investment
Total debtlGDP                                      01     5.8     662                                                       I
Total debt service/exports                         85      26.1    216
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                      .    690
Presentvalue of debt/exports                                      202.6                           Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992-02       2001   2002 2002-06
(averageannualgrouth)
GDP                                      5.2        18      5.1      3.0      52        -Ecuador


-
GDP.percapita "                          27        -02     3 2       12       3.4             Lower-middle-incomegroup
           .

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                 1982     1992    2001     2002      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                        P.1     P.7       9.0
Industry                                           40.3    39.3    29.4
  Manufacturing                                    17.8    22.0      11.7
Services                                           47.6    48.0     616

Private consumption                                63.1    67.7    68.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       14.0     7.2      13.1
Importsof goods andservices                        23.3    27.7     31.4            I         -GDI          -GDP             I

                                             1982-92 1992-02      2001     2002      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                        i
Agriculture                                        4.9      4.3      0.7             20

Industry                                            4.1    0.6       5.1
  Manufacturing                                    22       19       2.9             0

Services                                           5.9      2.1      6.0                                                   2
                                                                                    -20
Privateconsumption                                 4.7      I 9      5.4
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        1.8    0.0       0.5            -40
Gross domestic investment                          4.7     -16     36.8
Importsof goods andservices                        5.6      1.8     7.2




                                                                      74

                                                                                                                    Ecuador
                                                    ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982         1992     2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                                Inflation  ( O h )                                 i
("Achange)                                                                    150

Consumerprices                             -6.3         54.3   37.7    8.5    100
ImplicitGDP deflator                       -1.3        -40.4   25.5    8.4
                                                                               50
Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                                 0

Current revenue                                         24.6   24.7    25.9   -50
Currentbudget balance                                    5.9     6.2     7.4  I
Overallsurplus/deficit                                   -11   -0.5      1.0           ---GDPdeflator           -CPI              1

TRADE
                                        1982          1992    2001   2002
(US5 millions)                                                                 Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                      2,x)8         3,x)2  4,678   5,000   7.500T
  Oil                                     1,257        1260   1,900   1,839
  Bananas                                   193         683    865      981
  Manufactures                                          374    1247    1,291
Total imports (cif)                       1,981        2,431  5,383   6,431
  Food
  Fuelandenergy                             83           x)1   297     284
  Capitalgoods                              7 8          977   1681   2,022

Exportpriceindex(B95=WO)                    159          x38     114     115         96      97    98     99    00

Import priceindex(B95=WO)                    111         86       81     83                Exports           Imports
Termsof trade (B95=WO)                      144          8 6     140     0 8

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982         1992    2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                                  Current account balance to GDP              ( O h )


Exportsof goods andServices              2,489         3,7m   5,697   8,081
Importsof goods andservices              2,704         3,016   6,130  7,264
Resourcebalance                            -215         702    -403   -183

Net income                                -783         -944   -1,772  -1,622
Net current transfers                        m           P O   1,665   1,590

Current account balance                    -981         -P2    -5x)   -1,215

Financingitems (net)                       642           146    404    1,038
Changes innet reserves                     339           -24     136     777

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)       429         1,034   1,074   1,008
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS5)         1.20E-3      6.14E-2     t O     1.0


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982         1992    2001   2002
 (US5 millions)                                                                 :omposition of 2001debt (US$ mill.:
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed      7,705        8,271   t3,913
  IBRD                                      774         783     889
  IDA                                       36            30     20                         G:1.500             B:20

Total debt service                        2,144          981   1,550
  IBRD                                      32           0 7     0 9
  IDA                                         1            1       1

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                             14           83     73
  Officialcreditors                        -155           72      31
   Privatecreditors                          41         -203     10
   Foreigndirect investment                 40           l78   1,330
   Portfolio equity                           0            0       1

World Bank program
  Commitments                               96            89     32                                                 E- Bilatwai
  Disbursements                              41           63     e 4            \ IBRD
                                                                                3--IDA      D Other nnltilaterzd
                                                                                               -                    F. Private
   Principalrepayments                       B            75     76             :-IMF                               G Short-tai
                                                                                                                     -




                                                                   75

                                Annex 15: MultistakeholderConsultations
                                   ECUADOR: ECInstitutionalReform

On March 9 to 10, 2004, formal consultations were held in the two major cities of the country,
the capital Quito and the coastal city of Guayaquil. The consultations were held around the
Ecuador IRP and the closely linked Fiscal Adjustment and Competitiveness Growth Loan
(FCCGL-II). The consultation process built on a stakeholder dialogue initiated under the
concurrent FCCGL-I" and expanded the dialogue initiated in preparation of the FCCGL-I1and
IRP16to a broader array of stakeholders and sectors, comprising 160 participants from civil
society (representatives of NGOs, indigenous and afro-descendant organizations, small-farmers'
associations, trade unions, religious leaders, and private sector associations), universities and
governmental institutions. The geographical reach of the consultations was also expanded by
holdingmeetingsintwo cities and by invitingrepresentativesfrom surrounding regions.

A total of 300 stakeholders from 112 institutions were invited to the consultations, of which 53
percent (160) attended the events. 47 percent of participants were from civil society, 27 percent
from government institutions, 10 percent from universities and think tanks, 8 percent from the
private sector, 4 percent from the media, 4 percent from bilateral and multilateral institutions,
and 1 percent from churches / religious leaders. The attendance was high in both cities (85
participants in Quito and 75 in Guayaquil). Civil society participation was significantly higher in
Guayaquil (53%) than in Quito (35%), whereas Government and private sector representation
was roughly equal in both cities, although national institutions were more represented in Quito
thaninGuayaquil, which understandablyhadahigher attendanceof municipalrepresentatives.

The consultations allowed for an open dialogue on the main elements of the proposed reforms
between key stakeholders, the Government and the Bank. Through a combination of plenary
sessions and working groups, the consultations provided the opportunity for the Government to
present the proposed reforms, for the Bank to convey the rationale and objectives of the
operations, and for the participating stakeholders to question, obtain more information, and
provide comments, concerns and recommendations. The working groups were divided into the
three main areas of the reforms supportedby the two loans (Budget, Public Expenditures, Fiscal
and Tax Policy and Fiscal Transparency (FCCGL-11) Policies for Economic Growth: Trade
Policy, Competitiveness and Labor Policy (FCCGL-11); Customs Reform, Procurement Reform,
Professional Civil Service and Efficiency and Accountability in Selected Public Agencies
(Institutional Reform Project). The working group sessions aimed at fostering a multi-
stakeholder dialogue on the main elements of the reforms and operations, and at encouraging
feedback and recommendations from the stakeholders on the content of these. These
recommendations were then reported out to the plenary and discussed among all participants.
The discussions in the working groups generated a number of general and specific
recommendationsthat will be describedbelow.



l5The consultations for SAL I,in which civil society representatives were invited to discuss the main thrust o f the
reforms supported by the loan, were held in March 2003 inQuito.
  The consultation process for SAL I1and IRP included a series of preliminary dialogues and meetings with the
Government and with civil society organizations in the initial preparation stage, which helped to identify key
stakeholders to be invited to the subsequent consultations.


                                                         76

Inthe discussion around Customs reforms, all participants inQuito and Guayaquil agreedon the
fact that the inefficiency and corruption that have affected Customs in Ecuador significantly
increase transactions costs of trading goods. This situation adversely affects the competitiveness
of Ecuadorian economy and has a direct impact on consumers through a higher cost of imported
goods, and on public revenuesthrough the evasion of Customs taxes. There was a consensus that
reforms of the current Customs management are necessary. However, there was disagreement
among participants on whether these reforms require international loans or should be undertaken
with Ecuadorian resources based on exchange of experiences with other Latin American
countries. Stakeholders recommendedthe project should: (i)    strengthenthe new organic Customs
law and its regulations, including stronger mechanisms for control and sanctions, (ii)    improve
transparency of Customs management through control and oversight, as well as ongoing
participatory monitoring and evaluation (M&E), carried out by an independent observatory
including civil society organizations (CSOs), (iii)   develop, based on results of M&E, user
manuals defining norms on internal processes which become bindingfor personnel and Customs
officials, (iv) concession and privatize Customs management and create a sound institutional
framework deciding which part of the revenue goes to the concessionariesand which part goes to
the state, (iv) enhance the professionalism as well as the autonomy of Customs management
from political favors through training measures, adequateremuneration based on merit principle
and transparency in posting job vacancies, (v) transfer new technologies to detect tax evasion,
contraband and fraud.

Inthe area of public procurement, all stakeholdersidentifiedas main deficiencies of the recently
initiatede-procurement system CONTRATANET, missingpolitical support and deficient access.
As a requirement for enhanced effectiveness and efficiency of public procurement, participants
recommended the effective commitment of public agencies to subscribe to CONTRATANET.
Specific recommendationsincluded: (i)    the definition of a law and an institution which manages
public procurement processes; (ii)   a campaign for information dissemination, awareness and
capacity building around the CONTRATANET; (iii)         improved access to CONTRATANET for
small and mediumenterprises by reducing the minimumbidding amount required, buildingtheir
capacity to use CONTRATANET, and by improving connectivity of the country; and (iv)
independent and ongoing monitoring and evaluation of quality, efficiency, user-friendliness,
perceived level of integrity and commitment of public agencies to use the CONTRATANET for
 100%of their procurement processes.

In the discussion concerning human resources and institutional reforms, stakeholders agreed on
the fact that reforms are necessary especially in key social areas like education and health.
Another area of concern pointed at strengthening institutions and policies to support food
security and production. Furthermore, all participants perceived the need for law enforcement
and increased transparency on all levels of government as crucial. Consequently, participants
recommended the development of a comprehensive reform program to address governance,
public sector reform, as well as economic and social reform issues, and include the strengthening
of local institutions like juntas parroquiales, municipalities, and sectional governments which
directly respond to citizens demands. It was recommended that the project help: (i)    to improve
professionalism of public administration employees through ongoing training measures; (ii)      to
enhance transparency of the human resource agency SENRES, through strengthening of
oversight and control mechanisms; (iii)  civil society participation in monitoring and evaluating



                                                77

quality of and access to information of SENRES; (iv) to improve public and social service
delivery through participatory monitoring and evaluation of performance of key public agencies;
and(v) civil society participation inbudgeting andpublic expenditure monitoring.




                                               78


MAP SECTION


