Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6876
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND IDBI/SFC'S PROJECT
(LOAN 1260-IN)
June 29, 1987
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APSFC         -  Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation
AFC           -  Assam Financial Corporation
BSFC          -  Bihar State 4Financial Corporation
DFC           -  Delhi Financial Corporation
DGTD          -  Directorate General of Technical Development
GNP           -  Gross National Product
GOI           -  Government of India
GSFC          -  Gujarat State Financial Corporation
HFC           -  Haryana Financial Corporation
HPFC          -  Himachal Pradesh Financial Corporation
ICICI         -  Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDB-          -  Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI          -  Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IFD           -  Industrial Finance Department (of RBI)
JKSFC         -  Jammu and Kashmir State Financial Corporation
KFC           -  Kerala Financial Corporation
KSFC          -  Karnataka State Financial Corporation
MPFC          -  Madhya Pradesh Financial Corporation
MSFC          -  Maharashtra State Financial Corporation
OSFC          -  Orissa State Financial Corporation
PFC           -  Punjab Financial Corporation
RBI           -  Reserve Bank of India
RFC           -  Rajasthan Financial Corporation
SBI           -  State Bank of India
SFC           -  State Financial Corporation
SIDF          -  Small Industries Development Fund
SISI          -  Small Industries Service Institute
SSI           -  Small Scale Industries
SSIC          -  Small Scale Industries Corporation
SSIDC         -  Small Scale Industries Development Corporation
SSIDO         -  Small Scale Industries Development Organization
STC           -  State Trading Corporation
TCO           -  Technical Consultancy Organization
TIIC          -  Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation
UPFC          -  Uttar Pradesh Financial Corporation
WBFC          -  West Bengal Financial Corporation
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(annual averages)
Rs per US$1.00        US$ per Rs 1.00
Rs 8.0               US$0.125
Since September 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against a "basket" of
currencies. As these currencies are floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have been made at US$1
to Rs 8.00, which was the short-term average rate prevailing at the time of
the project appraisal.
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government of India   : April 1 - March 31
SFCs                   : April 1   March 31
RBI, IDBI              : July 1 - June 30



THE WORLD BANK                    OFFICIAL USE OfLY
Washington, DC 20433
USA
01Qfge of 0si.cuwCai
Opw ft Ev^aitegn
June 29, 1987
M,EMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India - Second IDBI/SFCs Project
(Loan 1260-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India - Second IDBI/SFCs Project (Loan 1260-IN)" prepared
by the South Asia Projects Department. Under the modified system for project
performance auditing further evaluation of this project by the Operations
Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discled without Wofid Barlk authorization.



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT
(LOAN 1260-IN)
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE *...00-00aos.aaa..osoa*aoa- a.oaooo.aaaaaas*aaaaaa               i
BASIC DATA SHEET .... a a@o*0a@aaa@00, a a ..............o...e....0 ii
HIGHLIGHTS ,*-a-.a0aaa0aaa*a00a0000**a@0aaa,a00ae**aaa*a4               iv
I.  INTRODUCTION  I......aaaaaaaoaaoaoaaaaaaaoea.aaoaaoaaaa    1
II.  ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT ..................................           1
Economic Performance *a.a.ao...a.a.a,aao.aaaaaaaaaao              1
Recent Policy Changes..................        . .               2
Small and Medium Industries............................          3
Investment Tren3s ...........               ......... a          3
III.  PROJECT.                       ......                             4
Project Objectives ............         ..    4
Project Design. a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a...a.a...a..a.a.... .aaa  5
Institutional Arrangements. .a a aa a.................ee a .*eo a  6
IV.  PERFORMANCE OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES ...................    6
SFCs Operations....      .... .... a                             6
SPCs Institutional Achievement ........................    . 9
IDBI's Performance .....       . a a 00a a a a a a.             11
V. SUBPROJECT PERFORMANCE ...................000 aa 0 s 0asoaose,esse    14
Outcome of Loan 1260-IN Subproject.......................       14
Sumary  .....a o. a.o....            ao. aa....      ao..a    16
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED.0*00*...........0*..0*..  16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance
of their offcil duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disctosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1:  SFC's Sanctions and Disbursementst FY81-86 ......................   19
2:  Summary of SFC's Operations ................... ........... .......   20
3:  SFC's Net Sanctions and Disbursements, Distribution by Subsector   21
4:  Assistance (Disbursements) to Small Industries, FY81-86 ..........        22
5:  SFC's Loan Assistance to Backward and Other Areas, 1981-86 ......   23
6:  Trends in Arrears of SFCs, FY82-86 ......* .......0*.... .    ...s..    24
7:  Debt Service Coverage Ratio of SFCs (DSCR), FY82-86 .............        25
8a:  Collection as Percentage of Amounts Falling Due.............-..    26
8b:  Collection Performance of SFCs9 ..................,..............   27
9:  Summary of Financial Statistics$ All SFCs .......................   28
10:  Consolidated Balance Sheet of SFCs. FY82-86.......,......,,..    29
11:  Summary of SFCs' Staffing Pattern, 1981/82 - 1984/85 .......4...   30
12:  SFCs Sanctions and Disbursements under Loan 1260-IN .............   31
13:  Size Distribution of Subprojects and Subloans ...................   32
14:  Financing of Subprojects under Loan 1260-IN .....................   33
15:  Type of Assistance Sanctioned by SFCs ...........................   34
16:  Subproject Implementation Performance ....................... ....   35
17:  Economic Indicators of Subprojects Financed ....................   36
18:  Financial Performance of Projects ...............................   37
19:  Actual Investment Costs per Job by Subsector,.........,.,,,,,..    38
20:  Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) of Selected Subprojects ...........   39
21:  Estimated and Actual Disbursements under Loan 1260-IN  ..........  40
ATTACHMENT
I -  Comments Received from the Borrower ..........................,.   41



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT
(LOAN 1260-IN)
PREFACE
This report reviews the *.mplementation of the second IDBI/SFCs
Project (Loan 1260-IN) in India. It assesses the performance of the main
project implementing agencies, namely, the eighteen State Financial
Corporations (SFCs) which provide medium and long term finance to small and
medium scale industries (SMI). It also reviews the impact of the project on
India's credit delivery system for SMI and the economic impact of the SMI
subprojects financed. The US$40 million loan was approved on May 16, 1976
and was declared effective on August 10, 1976. By March 1983, the entire
amount of the Loan was disbursed. This Project Completion Report was
prepared by the Industrial Development and Finance Division of the Projects
Department, South Asia Regional Office, based on the findings of a project
completion mission to India in October 1986 and data prepared by Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI), the apex agency for the Project.
Comments received from the Borrower have been taken into account as
appropriate in finalizing the report and are reproduced as an Attachment.
This projoect has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



^ it -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT
(WAN 1260-IN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts it US$14)
Loan Status                                              As of April 30L 1987
Original   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid   Outstanding
Loan 1260-IN          40.0        40,0                    21.4        18.6
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
FY76   FY77   FY78    FY79      PY80    PY81    FY82    FY83
(i)   Planned     1.6    12.6   28.30   37.30    40.00   40.00   40.00   40.00
(ii) Actual        -       2.0    7.10   14.64    22.92   31.22   35.78   40.00
(iii) (ii) as %    -      15.90  25.00   39.30    57.30   78.05   89.45  100.00
of (i)
Other Project Data                                     Actual
Board Approval                                         May 18, 1976
Loan Agreement                                         June 10, 1976
Effectiveness                                          August 10, 1976
Loan Closing
Org.ginal                                            December 31, 1978
Actual                                               March 31, 1983
Borrower                                               Government of India
Executive Agency                                       IDBI



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT
(LOAN 1260-IN)
MISSION DATA
Month/    Number of        Number of        Staff      Date of
Year       Weeks           Persons         Weeks      Report
Appraisal      05/75         6                4              24        10/75
Supervision    12/77         5                4              20        03/77
Supervision    01/78         3                2               6        03/78
Supervision    02/79         4                3              12        04/79
Supervision    03/80         2                2              4         04/80
Supervision    02/81         2                3               6        04/81
Supervision    05/82         3                3               9        07/82
Completion     10/86         2                1               4        03/87



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT
(LOAN 1260-IN)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.      Loan 1260-IN, which financed the second IDBI/SFCs Project in India,
was designed to support the objectives of the first Project. The two major
objectives were: (i) to provide financial assistance to high-priority
industrial enterprises in the SMI sector; and (ii) to upgrade 18 State
Financial Corporations (SFC) through specific institution-building programs,
in order to help improve India's credit delivery system to SKI. In the face
of the large number of SFCs iavolved, their deep-seated problems and the
extensive assistance requirements, the scope of the first Project was very
ambitious; and the Project was only partially successful in realizing its
institution-building objectives. The majority of SFCs still needed assis-
tance to improve their organizational structures, the quality of appraisals
and supervision and collection procedures. Under the second Project,
therefore, the institutional upgrading program focussed on improving the
quality of management and staff, stieamlining procedures and strengthening
appraisal capacity (para. 4.08).
2.      The project partly achieved its objectives.  There was rapid growth
in the SFCs' lending operations during the first half of the 1980s. More
resources were allocated for industrial enterprises in less developed areas.
The eighteen SFCs tully disbursed the Loan of US$40 million to 604 sub-
projects by March 1983. SFCs and Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
disbursed a total of Rs 628.66 million (equivalent of US$78.6 million) and
refinancing of Rs 529.73 million (equivalent of US$66.2 million),
respectively, for these subprojects. The Loan contributed 65% of IDBI's
total refinances, as agreed with the Bank under the Loan. The sectoral and
size distribution of the subprojects supported by the Loan was satisfactory.
Subloans were concentrated in light engineering, chemicals, and electronics.
Seventy percent of subloans were "B" projects (under Rs 2 million cr
US$250,000), indicating that adequate attention was given to smaller units
(pdra. 5.01).
3.      On the whole, the subprojects financed under the Loan indicate some
improvement in the overall performance relative to those under the first
Project. Based on the IDBI's ex-post review of the results of 69
subprojects, about 5,044 jobs, wbich representad 91% of the projected level,
were generated; average investment cost per job was US$9,795; and annual
export earnings estimated at Rs 59.2 million (US$7.5 million). Under this
Loan, there was a considerable improvement in economic and financial perfor-
mance of subprojects, compared to those under the first Project. Apart from
direct benefits, such as incremental investment and employment generation,
the Project also contributed significantly to the diffusion of modern tech-
nology to small and medium industries. However, the delays in implementation
and resultant cost overruns experienced in the first Project continued in



_ lr -
this Project. Although some factors that caused time and cost overruns were
beyond the control of the lending institutions, nevertheless SFCs could have
dealt with these problems to a significant extent, if they had properly
strengthened their appraisal capability to review more carefully technical
designs, to assess project costs more realistically, to allow for adequate
price escalations and physical contingencies and to develop more realistic
financing plans and implementation schedules (paras. 5.04-5.08).
4.      On the objective of institution-building, the project had a positive
impact. Lessons learned and experience gained through the first Project
enabled IDBI and SFCs to achieve some tangible results. IDBI,,as the apex
development bank in India, substantially enhanced its interactions with SFCs
and actively assisted tOem to implement the institutional upgrading programs
during the project period. While IDBI devised effective communication chan-
nels with SPCs, IDBI itself underwent changes in organizational structure in
order to achieve higher efficiency. Most SFCs have extended the term of
Managing Directors to two years or more, in order to retain the continuity
essential for institutional upgrading. The management quality of SFCs has
also improved to a significant extent. Clearly, there is room for further
development in the area, and hence many SPCs are strengthening management and
staff capability by various training programs offered by the Management
Development Institute, Bankers Training College, RBI and IDBI. Several SFCs
recently created separate appraisal and recovery departments which are to
help refine the quality and effectiveness of loan processing and supervision;
and others have adopted Management Information Systems which helped
strengthen the personnel functions and streamline the procedures (paras. 4.09
and 4.18).
5.      While an indigenous instLtutional capacity for term financing of SMI
is developing, the serious problem of collections and arrears has persisted.
The drive to accelerate project approvals without comparable results from
improved collections led to an increased level of arrears. The high level
of arrears tied up a large amount of resources, and led SFCs to increased
dependence on external sources for financing their new loans, as well as
their debt service obligations (paras. 4.02 and 4.04). In the past fiscal
year, 1985/86, several SFCs initiated various sbhemes to increase collection
including: (i) an incentive to subborrowers for timely repayment (funds for
modernization and T.A.); (ii) exercise of 8FCs' right (empowered by the SFC
Act, Section 32G of 1985) to recover the certified amount in the same marxer
as arrears of land revenue; (iii) an incentive bonus scheme applied to the
staff for successful collectinn; and (iv) strengthening project supervision
and loan recovery activities. Ic is premature to assess the full impact of
these measures on the arrears problem. Nevertheless, SFCs will have to make
much greater efforts to resolve this long-standing problem in order to
achieve the objective of becoming a sound credit delivery system serving the
SKI sector (para. 4.03).
6.      The implementation of Credit 356-IN and Loan 1260-IN provides an
important lesson. The experience of lending through an apex agency subject
to a system requiring interaction with central and state governments by means
of institutional processes outside of its direct control may require some
dilution of good banking practice. For example, the record of low collec-
tions and mounting arrears suggests that there needs to be a common under-
standing among all parties concerned of the objectives of financial institu-
tions concerned. The SFCs were clearly unable to sustain internal account-



- vi -
ability for loan quality and IDBI was unable to effectively discipline these
institutions, given the political priority accorded to rapid expansion in
lending. It would help if IDBI were given some legal instruments to enforce
financial disc'pline on the SFCs. Firm commitments by financial inter-
mediaries and consistent support by state governments to institutional
development is extremely important, if financial and institutional objectives
are to be achieved. In particulars stability and quality of top management
needs to be retained for the effectiveness of leadership and organizations.
Moreover, commitment to the longer term financial viability must rank in
importance with lending targets, and all concerned agencies must encourage
the SFCs to make the firm decisions which will be necessary to improve col-
lection performance. IDBI's continued support to SFCs should be. linked to
collection performance as measured by specific targets (Attachment, page 4).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT
(LOAN 1260-IN)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    IDA Credit 356-IN of US$25.0 million, to the Government of India
(GOI) in January 1973, was the first World Bank project for small scale
industry in India, and the Bank's first involvement with the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI) and India's State Financial Corporations
(SFCs). The second IDBI/SFCs Project (Loan 1260-IN) of US$40 million was
approved in 1976 for the same purpose. In each project, IDBI was selected as
the executing agency and the apex institution, because it was already provid-
ing local refinancing for the lending operations of the SFCs. Also, IDBI was
considered to be in a good position, on the basis of its equity shares in the
SFCs to exert financial discipline on these state-level financial institu-
tions and to provide technical assistance to them through an institutional
upgrading program which the Bank Group supported.
1.02    The PCR and PPAR for the first IDBI/SFCs project were issued in 1982
and 1984 respectively. These reports assessed the institutional development
of IDBI and SPCs as of the respective dates, and reviewed subproject perfor-
mance of small and medium industries based on statistical data available up
to 1980/81. Therefore, this PCR for Loan 1260-IN covers the remaining
project implementation period, 1981-83 and thereafter up to 1985/86 with
respect to SFCs' institutional development and subproject performance.
II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Economic Performance
2.01    India's economy has grown more rapidly in the past ten years than in
any previous decade since the early 1950s, and came through the difficult
period after the first oil shock in 1973 without major economic disruptions.
India adjusted to the first oil price increase mainly through additional
export earnings supported by appropriate exchange rate and domestic policies,
and hence industry and overall economic performance improved. In 1979, while
India responded to the second major oil price increase with successful import
substitution in foodgrains and petroleum, the real exchange rate appreciated
and export, industrial and overall growth declined. Industry's contribution
to GDP stagnated as annual growth of output barely kept up with GDP growth.
The initially high growth of the inadustrial sector gradually declined from 8%
in the late fifties to middle sixties to less than 6% during the decade of
the seventies, and to 2% in the first years of the current decade.
Underlying these trends were declining factor productivity, implying a steady
deterioration in efficiency of resource use. Positive factor productivity in
relatively few industries was offset by negative or zero growth in others.
The long-term objectives of industrialization -- accelerated growth and
productivity improvement -- therefore remain as priority objectives.



-2-
2.02    The pattern of industrial activity during the implementation period
of the second IDBI/SFCs Project (1976-83) is generally characterized by the
major setback to India's industry. Manufacturing stagnated and capacity
utilization slipped to the low level of the early seventies. The second oil
shock of 1979 was severely compounded by wide-spread failure of the monsoon,
resulting in a sharp decline in agricultural production. Consequent decline
in inputs for important agro-industries depressed demand in rural areas for
major consumer goods. The drought also influenced production through crip-
pling infrastructural bottlenecks in power and transportation. Fortunatelyp
external reserves were initially ample because of large inflows of workers'
remittances and continuation of foreign aid disbursements. In addition, GOI
negotiated a three-year program with the IMF using the Extended Fund Facility
to stem the decline in reserves. Domestic constraints thus coincided WiLth
ample foreign currency resource availability at the beginning of the period.
As import liberalization began to spread wider in subsequent years, competi-
tive pressures on Indian industry began to develop, which increasingly
revealed the need for modernization through technology-upgrading,
rationalization and foreign collaboration arrangements to improve capacity
utilization, efficiency and product quality.
Recent Policy Changes
2.03    Since 1983, concern with India's industrial performance has led GOI
to reassess its industrial strategy and related system of controls. During
the past few years, a more pragmatic approach to industrial development has
been manifested. Important modifications were introduced in the industrial,
fiscal and capital market policy framework. The principal objective of the
industrial policy initiatives have been those of deregulating the economy
with a view to accelerate the growth and to achieve more efficient use of
resources, especially of capital, thereby improving the competitiveness of
Indian industry. In March 1985, a significant beginning towards deregulation
was made, exempting companies other than MRTP and FERA companies from the
purviews of licensing requirement. Initially, 25 broad groups of industries
were delicensed, followed by 82 bulk drugs and related formulations in
June 1985. To alleviate the problems arising out of capacity fragmentation,
the Government announced, in May 1986, that letters of intent will be issued
regarding the minimum capacity sizes for 65 major industries. Another change
made in the licensing policy, i.e., "broad-banding" of licenses, aims optimum
utilization of industrial capacity in keeping with the evolving market condi-
tions of supply and demand.
2.04    The Long-Term Fiscal Policy (LTFP) was presented to Parliament in
December 1985. Its objectives is to impart a greater degree of predict-
ability and stability to the Government fiscal policy over the Seventh Plan
period. The thrust of the FY86/87 Budget is directed towards rationalization
and simplification of both direct and indirect taz arrangements as con-
templated in LTFP. In direct taxation, the Government announced several
measures to affect corporate taxation, and in indirect taxation introduced
the Modified Value Added Tax (MODVAT) for rationalizing the excise duty
structure and doing away with the cascading effects of indirect taxes. In
order to encourage healthy growth of the capital market, Government hias
liberalized restrictions on capital markets; and both the equity and deben-
ture markets have grown rapidly.



-3-
Small and Medium Industries
2.05    In the 1970s, India was making special efforts to develop small- and
medium-scale industries (SMI) at both the federal and the state levels. This
sector was considered important for actual and potential contribution to
output, employment and income distribution. The development of small, labor-
intensive industries was expected to function as an especially convenient
vehicle for economic growth and export expansion in less developed areas. In
1972, small industries contributed about 502 of value added and 80X of
employment in the entire manufacturing sector. At that time, GOI defined a
small-scale manufacturing unit as one with investment of less than Rs 750,000
in plant and equipment (currently the official definition specifies the
investment size of SSI unit less than Rs 3.5 million). Important policy
instruments affecting the SKI sector in the 1970s were (i) industrial and
import licensing and (ii) targets set by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for
commercial bank lending to priority sectors, such as SSI. The Government
initiated an array of fiscal and financial incentives 1/ to stimulate the
development of SSIs and reserved many product groups for exclusive production
by the small-scale sector. In 1979, GOI extended the reservation to 807
items and in October 1986 to 863 items.
2.06    National and State institutions were established to provide technical
assistance and infrastructural facilities to small industries. Commercial
banks and State Financial Corporations (SFCs), the latter being specialized
institutions providing term finance to small and medium size enterprises,
have been the principal sources of SKI finance. IDBI, an apex term-lending
institution, has played a major indirect role in financing SMI projects by
refinancing SFC loans. Commercial banks have provided the bulk of financing,
mainly working capital, to SMI enterprises. In the latter part of the 1970s,
term lending also became an important activity for these banks. In the areas
of promotion, technical assistance and extension services, IDBI sponsored the
creation of eight Technical Consultancy Organizations (TCOs) which operate as
non-profit, state-level agencies. In May 1986, GOI announced the estab-
lishment of a separate fund called Small Industries Development Fund (SIDF)
in IDBI. This Fund is exclusively for the development, expansion,
modernization, diversification and rehabilitation of the small sector, cover-
ing a wide spectrum of small-scale, tiny, village and cottage sectors.
Besides ensuring increased flow of financial and non-financial assistance to
the SSI sector, the SIDP is intended to serve as a focal point for effective
coordination of the promotional activities by various organizations,
Investment Trends
2.07    The contribution of SFC loans to total investments (gross domestic
investment) in the manufacturing sector during FY81-85 is shown below:
1/ Incentives included credit at concessionary terms, hire-purchase
schemes, special deductions on income taxes for priority industries,
simplified licensing procedures, and a Credit Guarantee Scheme (CCS)
administered by RBI. In addition, each state provided wide-range tax
concessions for location in"backward districts" where many small-scale
units are concentrated.



-4-
Table 1: SFCs DISBURSEMENT PATTERN
(Rs billion)                           SFC Dis-
SFCs Dis-     bursements
GDI /a          Total /b          SFCs         bursements    as % of total
Ret. Manuf.   Disbursements  Disbursements   as % of GDI   Disbursements
FY81      60.48            17.29          2.48            4.10           14.34
FY82      71.98            20,64          3.18            4.42           15.41
FY83      73.06            23.58          4.04            5.53           17.13
FY84      79.61            28.93          4.35            5.46           15.04
FY85      91.27            34.08          4.99            5.47           14.64
Total    376.40           124.52          19.04           5.06           15.29
/a Gross Domestic Investment.
/b Includes disbursements of All-India Financial Institutions (IDBI, IFCI,
ICICI, IRCI9 LIC, UTI) SFCs and SIDC.
Source: Work Bank Report No. 6090-IN Economic Situation and Development
Projects of India, May 9, 1986, Table 2.6; IDBI's Operational
Statistics.
The total disbursements of All-India Financial Institutions, SFCs and SIDCs
have increased to about 35% of GDI in registered manufacturing in FY85 from a
25% level maintained during the second half of 1970s, of which 5.5% has been
from SFCs. Of the total disbursements, all SFCs have maintained 0 15Z level
over the past five years, FY81-85. Registered manufacturing increased from
15% of CDI in FY77 to 18% in FY85; unregistered manufacturing is estimated
at about 6% of total GDI; the share of manufacturing in total GDI was about
23% at the end of FY85.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01    Until 1973, Bank Group financing of industrial investment had con-
sisted of medium and large scale units either through direct financing or
through the financing of the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India (ICICI). IDA Credit 356-IN (US$25 million) was the first Bank Group
project to focus on the small scale industrial sector. The Credit was chan-
neled through the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) to



-5-
18 SFCs 1/ for relending to small- and medium-scale industry with two basic
objectives: (i) to finance the import component of high-priority i.tdustrial
enterprises in the SMI sector, and (ii) to assist in upgrading the operations
and procedures of the SFCs through the review and refinance operations of
IDBI.
3.02    In 1976 the Bank undertook the Second IDBI/SFCs Project (Loan
1260-IN; US$40 million). The objectives of this Loan were (i) to expand
financial assistance to the small and medium scale industrial sector; and
(ii) to contribute to the on-going institutional upgrading of the SFCs. At
the time of the first Credit, the SFCs suffered from a number of weaknesses,
including shortcomings in the quality of management and staff, inadequate
procedures and appraisal standards, high arrears and insufficient provisions
for possible losses. To assist SFCs in alleviating these shortcomings, IDBI
and Industrial Finance Department (IFD of RBI) developed specific institu-
tional upgrading programs, which IDA agreed to include in the first Project.
In the initial two years, considerable progress was made, particularly in
management, general operational procedures, and appraisal standards.
However, in subsequent years, the upgrading programs themselves were found to
be insufficiently detailed and not broad enough in scope. Accordingly,
IDBI/IFD prepared revised upgrading programs 2/ based on IDA's recommenda-
tions in March/April 1975. Implementation of these revised programs formed
one of the major objectives of the second Project.
Project Design
3.03    As in the previous Credit (356-IN), the Project involved a loan to
IDBI, an apex institution, for on-lending to SMI through 18 SFCs, which
covered the entire country. The Project did not include promotional or
technical assistance components for SMI, because these were deemed to be
already available and because the Bank expected to have greater impact by
strengthening the credit delivery system. In view of the objectives to
upgrade SFC standards and to support SMI enterprises, the lehding scheme
required special arrangements to ensure effectiveness and efficient
administration of the Loan.
3.04    Subloan Criteria.  The eligibility criteria for subloans clearly
placed the project in the small and medium scale sector. IDBI established
basic financial and economic selection criteria for subloans, and these were
approved by the Bank. Under the SFC Act, SFC subloans were limited to a
maximum size of Rs 3 million. 3/ Eligible enterprises had to have a total
equity (paid-up share capital and free reserves) of no more than Rs 10
1/ SFCs are responsible for providing medium and long term finance, under-
writing facilities and guaranties to small and medium scale industrial
units, and had total outstanding of Rs 2.8 billion as of March 31, 1975.
(Appraisal Report No. 1158-IN)
2/ The programs included detailed recommendations on management, organiza-
tion and staffing, policies and procedures, appraisal standards.
3/ It has been raised to Rs 6 million; and the SSr definition has been
altered to enhance the limit of investment in plant and machinery from
Rs 2 million to Rs 3.5 million (Attachment, page 5).



-6-
million. The Bank Loan financed imports, mainly of capital equipment but
also raw materials that constituted permanent working capital in a project.
The Bank fixed its disbursement proportion at 65Z of TDBI's refinance to
SFCs.
3.05    Terms and Conditions.  The proceeds of the Loan were on-lent by IDBI
to SFCs at an interest rate of 82 per annum in the case of SFCs re-lending to
small-scale units covered under the Credit Guarantee Schemep technician-
entrepreneurs and units in specified backward districts. SFC re-lent to
these subborrowers at 11.5. In case of all other lending, the corresponding
on-lending and re-lending rates were 8.752 and not less than 12,OZ. GOI
on-lent the Bank loan to IDBI at an interest rate of 7.752 (excluding 0.25X
rebate for prompt payment). These rates provided the SFCs with a spread of
3.52, which was larger than the 2.52 spread under the Credit 356-IN. This
was mainly due to an increase in the re-lending rate to subborrowers. The
foreign exchange risk was borne by GOI. Only those SFCs that adopted and
continued to meet the requirement of the upgrading program were eligible to
participate under the Loan. The free limit was raised from Rs 1 million
under the first loan to Rs 2.5 million under this loan.
Institutional Arrangements
3.06    IDBI was selected as the apex agency for the Project because it
already had a refinance role in India's financial system, and through its SFC
shareholdings (50% of capital) and its monitoring and review
responsibilities, IDBI was considered a capable institution to exert finan-
cial discipline over the SFCs and to upgrade their operations. In an effort
to improve SFC*s operations, IDBI and RBI jointly,developed individual
upgrading programs which IDA agreed to form a part of the first Credit. In
the context of the first Project, deficiencies in these programs were
identified, such as insufficient detail and limited scope (para. 4.08). The
programs were therefore revised to tailor them to the specific needs of each
SFC with detailed recommendations on mgnagement, organization and staffing,
policies and procedures, appraisal standards, portfolio quality and financial
management and planning. Along with the debt service coverage limitations,
an agreement between IDBI and each SFC on these revised upgrading programs
became the basis of each SFC's eligibility for participation under the Loan
(1260-IN).
IV. PERFORKANCE OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
SFCs Operations
4.01    Investments.  Net sanctions for all SFC9 increased by about two and
half times between FY81 and FY86, rising from Rs 3.7 billion to Rs 9.1
billion, a rate of nearly 202 per annum. Of these sanctions, 902 in value
terms were new projects, 76% for 8SI and 512 for units located in backward
areas. Public sector units were assisted only through joint financing with
the State Industrial Development Corporation (SIDC); and the private sector
continued to receive the bulk of SFC assistance. Five subsectors accounted
for almost 502 of total sanctions, i.e. chemical and chemical products
(142), food processing (112), metal products (92), textiles (82) and
machinery (52). Additional data on subsector distribution of loans are shown
in Annex 3. The average size of SPC loans decreased from Rs 210,000 in FY77



-7-
to Re 166,000 in PY84, but has risen since that time to Rs 310,000 in FY86.
Annex 4 shows the increase in lending to SSI and Annex 5 the lending to
backward areas. The high growth figures recorded in these annexes, taken
together with the arrears problem discussed below, illustrate the problem
endemic to all the SFCs: a heavy emphasis on loan approvals which outweights
the attention to supervision, collection and arrears. The main factor caus-
ing the rapid growth in approvals was that the SFCs' managements were judged
by the state governments on their ability to approve an increasing number of
projects. In addition, both central and state governments have emphasized
the development of SSI and backward regione; and SFCs have accorded high
priority to these twin tasks.
4.02    Arrears.  The problem of collections and arrears remains.  While SFCs
have been seriously pursuing the upgrading programs (para. 4.09), their
recovery position, as judged by the proportion of recoveries to outstandings,
has not improved. A breakdown of arrears by SFC for FY82-86 is shown in
Annex 6. In FY81, the SFCs' total arrears were Re 2.6 billion, which repre-
sented about 271 of the SFCs' combined portfolios at that time, ranging from
10% (Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir) to 561 (Assam). In the two fol-
lowing years (FY82 and FY83), the proportion decreased to around 251, but
increased thereafter reaching 31% of their combined portfolios by FY86.
During the past 5 years, in only four States have the arrears position
improved-Karnataka (261), M4adhya Pradesh (141), West Bengal (171) and Delhi
(19Z); in all other states there was further deterioration. The causes are
well identified in PPAR (Credit 356-IN). Although the growth of arrears are
due in part to the rapid growth of the portfolio, a disquieting feature is
their chronic nature, with a good part overdue for two years or more.
Perhaps more disturbing is the existence of wilful defaulters, arising ini-
tially from the soft attitude taken by the SFCs in handling their cases and
the resulting impunity of borrowers to penalties for delinquency; and the
weak recovery machinery of the SFCs, including insufficient iniormation on
individual subborrowers (Attachment, page 4).
4.03    Recently, many SFCs have taken steps to reduce arrears, including:
strengthening project supervision and loan recovery activities, reducing the
differential between short- and long-term rates through a rebate scheme for
prompt repayment and penal isates for delayed payments, and using recourse to
Section 29 of SFCs Act for take-over of management, outright sale, and
revenue recovery proceedings (Attachment, page 4). Also, Default Review
Committees in SFCs monitor the arrears and review the defaulting accounits
case-by-case. Each SFC has now assigned senior level officials to be in
charge of collection activity. In addition, during FY86 three specific
measures have been implemented. First, as an incentive to subborrowers to
repay on time, 8FC provides additional funds to them for modernization and
other technical assistance. The fund comprises contributions from SFCs
(401), IDBI (40%) and the subborrower (201). The scheme has already covered
twenty-five units. Second, newly added Section 32G to the SFC Act (1985
Amendment) empowers SFCs to make an application to a state government for
recovery of the amount due to the SFC, and enables the Collector to process
recovery of the certified amount (by the State Government) in the same manner
as arrears of land revenue. Third, to stimulate collection activity, some
SFCs have devised an incentive bonus scheme, which provides a bonus up to 251
of annual salary for successful collection, compared to a normal maximum
bonus rate of 8 1/31 for all staff members of SFCs. It is too soon to assess
the impact of these measures on the overall collection performance.



-8-
Nevertheless, it is evident that IDBI and SFCs have been emphasizir.g means to
resolve long-standing problems of arrears and defaults in SFC operations.
4.04    Collections.  The details of the SFCs' collection performance for
FY82-85 is shown in Annexes 8(a) and 8(b), and are summarized below:
Table 2: SFCs' COLLECTION PERFORMANCE FY82-86
FY82       FY83       FY84        FY85      FY86
Collection (Rs million)  1,866.5    2,261.8    2,886.3    3,473.9   4,316.0
Collection Ratios /a
A.                38%         37%        36Z         34%       35%
B.                79%         73%        69%        67%        70%
/a A = Collections as percent of total accumulated dues excluding suit-filed
amounts.
B = Collections as percent of amounts falling due.
The overall collection as a proportion of total dues remained at highly
unsatisfactory rate of 35% in FY86; ten SFCs had ratios below 352 in this
year. Three SFCs show continuous improvement in the recovery performance:
in FY86, Delhi (67%), Karnataka (45%) and West Bengal '42%); while four SFCs,
on the contrary, exhibit significant deterioration between FY82 and FY86 from
83% to 34% (Jammu and Kashmir), 44% to 31% (Rajasthan), 41% to 29%
(Maharashtra) and 40% to 27% (Gujarat). Collection ratio B in Table 2 (i.e.
collection as percent of current dues) indicates that during the period
FY82-86 the SFCs. as a whole, collected about 67-79% of amounts falling due
each year, which shows some improvement as compared with 63-71% during
FY77-81. The six largest SFCs had collection performances ranging from a low
51% for Rajasthan to 71% for Maharashtra in FY86.
4.05    In order to motivate SFCs to intensify their efforts and to evolve
new strategies to improve their recovery performance, since April 1, 1982,
IDBI has linked refinance availability to SFr's recovery performance.
However, the PPAR (Credit 356-IN) suggested the way in which IDB1's refinance
limits are determined enable SFCs to avoid facing squarely their arrears
problem, and also suggested that IDBI, with greater discrimination in such
unilateral initiatives, could induce SFCs to introduce financial discipline,
to enforce collections and to bring about long overdue institutional changes.



-9-
4.06    Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR). 1/ Annex 7 shows the DSCR (on
a cash basis) for each SFC' from FY82 to FY86. The Bank recommended in April
1980 the measure of the DSCR on a cash basis which was more realistic test of
credit-worthiness than the accrual basis. Except for FY82, when 12 SFCs had
DSCRs above 1.0, the DSCR position of a majority of SFCs deteriorated in the
following two years. But, in FY86 the position slightly recovered with 9
SFCs having DSCRs above 1.0. The higher ratios were 1.59 (Delhi), 1.29
(Haryana) and 1.23 (Kerala). In the same year, 9 SFCs had DSCRs below 1.0,
as compared to 15 SFCs in FY80 with a DSCR below 1.0.
4.07    Operations.  Annex 9 provides a summary of financial statistics of
SFCs for FY82-86 and Annex 10 shows the consolidated balance sheet for all
SFCs during FY82-86. Cumulative disbursements were nearly 71% of
commitments, as compared with only 62% during the period of FY72-81 (PCR for
Credit 356-IN, para. 3.07). Under the Business Plan and Resources Forecast
(BPRF) exercised by IDBI, targets of loan approvals are set, taking into
account the organizational and resource mobilization effort of each SFC. As
a result, gaps between loan sanctions and disbursements by SFCs has gradually
narrowed over the past several years. During the period FY82-86, SFC's total
assets/liabilities grew from Rs 13.3 billion to Rs 27.4 billion and their
combined share capital grew from Rs 1.6 billion to Rs 3.8 billion. The
combined debt!equity ratio of all SFCs was 4.1 in recent years. Profit
margins decreased largely due to increased administrative costs; for example,
on a combined basis the SFCs' return on equity declined from 7.8% in FY82,
4.7% in FY86.
SFCs Institutional Achievement
4.08    Upgrading Programs.  Under this Project, the upgrading programs
initiated under the first IDBI/SFCs Project, were revised incorporating
proposals to:
(a)  increase the role of the Boards of Directors and the sanctioning
authority of the Executive Committee;
(b)  provide the continuity and smooth turnover of top management and the
strengthening of the second layer of management; and
(c)  restructure IDBI/SFCs interest rate structures (para. 3.04).
These revised upgrading programs, along with the debt service coverage
limitation, formed the basis for an agreement between IDBI and each SFC to
enable the latter to be eligible for withdrawal under the Loan. The program
for each SFC envisaged improvements in management, organization, staffing,
policies and procedures, appraisal standards, improvements in portfolio
1/ Upon IDBI's request, Bank made informally a few modifications to the
covenant (Credit 356): - (i) In November 1976 the Bank aliowed a temporary
relaxation of the DSCR from 1.25 to 1.0, provided that satisfactory
recovery and follow-up action programs were adopted by the SFCs; (ii) In
March 1977 the Bank agreed to modify the DSCR definition to include addi-
tional share capital, if paid-in within nine months after the end of the
fiscal year.



-10-
quality and financial management and planning. (Appraisal Report No.
1158-IN).
4.09    Over the last five years, many SFCs notably, those in Karnataka,
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Punjab,
H.P. and J&K, have restructured their organization and streamlined
policies/procedures concerning loan sanctions. SFCs' achievements have been
greatly facilitated by IDBI's influence and development measures taken under
the institutional upgrading programs. IDBI monitors the overall operations
of SFCs through its annual evaluation and through Business Plan and Resources
Forecast (BPRF). The latter serves also as an instrument to evaluate the
administrative structure, management and staffing of each SFC, to assess the
operational policies and procedures, and to establish standards of appraisal
and supervision.
4.10    Management.  SFC Managing Directors are appointed by the state
government in consultation with IDBI. Rapid turnover of Managing Directors
has undermined the management continuity needed for institutional upgrading.
In 1980, IDBI issued to all state governments a comprehensive set of
guidelines in respect to appointment, tenure, change of Managing Directors of
SFCs. Since then, state governments have increasingly been aware of the need
for providing a reasonably long tenure to the top management. Currently, as
many as 15 SFCs extend the term of Managing Directors for two to five years,
while several States have set a minimum tenure of three years (Attachment,
page 6). Overall, SPC management quality has improved to a significant
exteat, while several SFCs have already adopted a proposed minimum three-year
term. Also, the second layer of management has been considerably
strengthened through the recruitment of qualified professionals from a
variety of disciplines.
4.11    Staff.  As a part of the upgrading program in the second IDBI/SFCs
Project, the Bank emphasized the need to recruit additional professional
staff, particularly to strengthen follow-up work, and to provide more techni-
cal and legal expertise. Annex 11 shows the growth pattern of professional
and other staff from PY82 to PY85 for each SFC. Total recruitment of profes-
sionals in SFCs increased from 1,729 in end-FY82 to 2,168 in end-FY85, at the
growth rate of 7.8% p.a., even though total employment of Bihar and Delhi
SFCs slightly decreased over the period. The pay scales, which are linked to
State Government levels, had seriously constrained the recruitment of vir-
tually all SFCs. IDBI reported that a recent revision of the pay scales has
made them more competitive and may allow SFCs to attract more competent
staff.
4.12    Training.  For the past three years, considerable effort has been
devoted to the training of professional staff. More than 900 professionals
underwent training in project appraisal and supervision courses offered by
the Management Development Institute, Bankers Training College, Reserve Bank
of India and IDBI. This training has improved the quality of staff in SFCs.
Prior to 1982, the SFCs generally suffered from deficiencies in appraisal
standards, assessment of working capital requirements, evaluation of
managerial competence of the entrepreneurs, cost estimates, implementation
schedules and financial projections. SFCs' project appraisal performance has
been gradually improving since then. Further, SFCs have been continuously
improving their competence in financial appraisal including ratio analysis,
evaluation of technical, organizational and managerial aspects. IDBI reports
that all SFCs have expressed willingness to improve further their staff



-11-
skill3 in project appraisal through the training opportunities provided by
IDBI.
4.13    Project Appraisal.  Sanctioning authority has been decentralized to
delegate the authority to SFC regional/branch offices in charge. It has
greatly accelerated the appraisal process, especially in the case of small
scale enterprises whose financial requirements are relatively small. Some
SFCs have opened 'Guidance Cells" to assist and guide entrepreneurs in com-
pleting applications and furnishing the required information. The loan
application formats are standardized; and SFCs now maintain better liaison
with other state-level financial inititutions azd banks. Also, SFCs have
introduced the concept of economic cost/benefit analysis to project
appraisal.
4.14    Institutional Coordination.  The success of SFCs' effort to develop
industries depends considerably on the extent to which SFCs are able to bring
about coordination among other state-level institutions and banks.
Especially, such coordination is of particular help in providing
entrepreneurs with assured flow of term loans and working capital finance
during project implementation. Over the review period (PY82-86), the
institutional coordination between SFCs, commercial banks and state-level
agencies noticeably improved.  Continuous periuasion was effective in getting
commercial bank approvals of working capital finance to the projects which
SFCs assisted. In the case of coniortium financing, several SFCs (Karnataka,
Kerala and West Bengal) adopted the system of exchanging appraisal memoranda
with SIDCs and commercial banks. IDBI is also promoting close coordination
among various state-level institutions to enable SFCs to act on the improve-
ment of the credit delivery system.
4.15    Summary.  Overall, SFCs devoted considerable attention to the
improvement of organizational structure during the secod IDBI/SFCs Project.
Some SFCs created separate appraisal and recovery departments in order to
refine the quality and effectiveness of loan processinO and supervision, and
adopted Management Information Systems (MIS), which helps strengthen the
personnel functions and streamline procedures. However, while the second
Project had some positive effect on the SFCs' management and other institu-
tional upgrading aspects, it did not result in the improvement of collections
and arrears position. The major increases in SFC activity were in loan
sanctions. The drive to accelerate project approvals successively increased
arrears without comparable results from improved collections. The recovery
record has in fact deteriorated since FY82. Persistent high levels of
arrears has tied up a large amount of resources, and has led to SFCs'
increasing dependence on external sources to finance their new loans and to
meet their debt service obligations. It is expected that the new incentives
for the collection drive would bring positive results.
IDBI's Performance
4.16    Under the Project, IDBI was assigned the pivotal role for monitoring,
guiding and improving the performance of the SFCs. IDBI owns 502 of each SFC
and the IDBI-SFCs telationship comprises board membership, guidance in
policies, financial, managerial and technical advice and more importantly
provision of capital and financial resources to s8Cs.
4.17    IDBI for SFCs' Institutional Development Program.  Under the Loan
(1260-IN), the eligibility for IDBI's refinancing facility waS tied to SPCs



-12-
effort to implement the revised upgrading programs. RBI and IDBI had jointly
formulated the original institutional upgrading programs for the SFCs, which
the Bank agreed in 1972 as part of the first Credit (356-IN). Subsequently
in 1975, IDBI and RBI developed detailed institutional upgrading programs for
each SFC covering the eight areas listed in para. 4.08. Under the second
Project IDBI/RBI presented to the SFCs specific programs to:
(a)  Expedite review of loan applications;
(b) Improve appraisal standards, including preparation of industry
profiles;
(c) Expedite disbursement and introduce systematic reviews of slow dis-
bursing projects;
(d) Improve pre- and post-implementation procedures and strengthen
follow-up and project supervision, including coverage and frequency
of supervision reports to be prepared to SFC managers;
(e) Pursue legal and other remedies to resolve overdue accounts; and
(f) Expand recruitment and training of professional staff (PCR, Credit
356-IN para. 3.15).
However, as identified by the PCR (for Cr. 356-IN), the absence of specific
-'time-bound" implementation of those programs was serious deficiency. For
this reason, IDBI, through the annual evaluation report on the SFCs
operation, recently introduced sections summarizing the progress and a
timetable for implementing the institutional upgrading programs. Initially,
IDBI's evaluation reports tended to be, merely descriptive with insufficient
analysis of specific problems facing the SFCs. Over the past few years,
however, the quality of reports and discussions between IDBI and the SFCs has
improved, while the reports have also served as a vehicle to convey manage-
ment iLnformation.
4.18    IDBI/SFCs Interaction.  In the 1980s, IDBI actively assisted SFCs in
institutional upgrading, especially with arrears/defaults, collections,
continuity in management, 'nd identification of industrial problems specific
to certain subsectors. To exchange views on problems of mutual interest,
IDBI convened periodic conferences attended by the Chief Executives of SFCs,
RBI, IDBI and Government representatives. The most recent conference was
held in April 1986. These conferences have served as useful forum for
SFCs/IDBI interaction, and also provided insight into various operational
problems that SFCs were facing. For IDBI, such conferences have provided an
opportunity to assess the progress in SFCs' implementation of upgrading
programs as well as achievement in the key areas viz. recovery of dues,
follow-up and monitoring projects, appraisal standards, manpower development
and management capacity. Upon Bank's recommendation in 1980, IDBI has also
assisted the SFCs in developing annual business plans and resource forecasts
(BPRF). The annual exercise clearly provides a framework to establish objec-
tives and to assess progress each year.
4.19    Some of the measures agreed upon at such conferences have had great
impact on the SFCs performance when implemented. For example, in pursuance
of the decision taken at 22nd Conference in December 1983, IDBI appointed the
Dave Committee, comprising representatives of SFCs, RBI, IDBI under the



-13-
chairmanship of IDBI's Executive Director# to examine the financial structure
and operation of SFCs in all aspects and make appropriate recommendations.
The Committee submitted its report in June 1984 with a pet of specific recom-
mentdations for containing the volume of arrears and developing balanced
portfolios by diversifying into short/medium financing. Similarly, the 23rd
Conference in April 1985 formed a Committee to examine computerization of
Accounts and Systems Development of SFCs and establishment of a standard
package for computer hardware as well as sqftware. IDBI accepted the
Committee Report in January 1986 and forwarded it to the SPCs for their
adoption. In fact, the PCR mission in October 1986 was informed that three
SFCs (AP, Karnataka and Kerala) have already installed computers, while
others are actively pursuing the recommendations of the Committee.
4.20    Organizational Changes.  llnder the first Project (Credit 356-IN),
IDBI agreed to create three divisions within its Refinance Department --
Appraisal, Operations, and Follow-up; and in 1976 IDBI decentralized most of
the SFC evaluation and insp.ction functions to its regional offices in Delhi,
Madrast Calcutta and Ahmedabad. This change has resulted in more effective
monitoring and supervision of SFCs in recent years. In addition, IDBI set up
two new departments during FY86, i.e. the Market Research Department and the
Technology Department, each headed by a General Manager. The former conducts
research on demand potential, undertakes studies of marketing arrangements in
various industries and monitors market developments. The latter assists in
creating a technology data base, disseminating information on changing
industrial technology, and providing advice on technology transfer
arrangements. The two departments have been assisting project appraisals of
financial institutions with particular respect to technology, market research
and international competitiveness. To cater exclusively to the needs of
Non-Resident Indian (NRI) entrepreneurs, IDBI created a special "NRI Cell" in
the Head Office (Bombay). The primary objective is to work for greater
interaction between NRIs and financial institutions.
4.21    Arrears and Recovery Measures.  IDBI has continuously stressed co all
SFCs the need to improve their recovery rates. As a result, the SFCs have
adopted a two-pronged program of (i) sharpening appraisal tools to prevent
time and cost overruns and to ensure a sound financing pattern for assisted
projects and (ii) intensifying monitoring and recovery efforts by streamlin-
ing procedures. In respect to default accounts, all institutions have held
meetings of the Regional Executives (REMs) every two months in each region,
reviewing and initiating remedial actions in close coordination with commer-
cial banks. Also, most of SFCs have constitgted Default Review
Committees/Recovery Cells (Attachment, page 3). Throuth the Special Recovery
Cell, IDBI monitors the recovery performance and stressts the credit records
at the time of new project appraisal.
4.22    Summery.  IDBI, as the apex development bank in India, has substan-
tially enhanced its interaction with SFCs. Particularly, IDBI has actively
assisted SFCs to implement the revised institutional upgrading programs under
the Project (Loan 1260-IN). Some of the tangible outcomes were: (i) annual
planning exercises by .the SFCs which enable them to assess progress each year
against expected achievement; (ii) ovetall upgrading of the skills of SFCs
personnel; and (iii) enchanced interaction (e.g. conferences) between IDBI
and SFCs to review SFC's financial/operational constraints. IDBI has now
embarked on assisting SFCs in building up computer-based management informa-
tion systems. However, despite substantial and systematic effort on the part
of IDBI.'s management and staff in institutional upgrading, the impact on the



-14-
improvements in SFC's operational/financial performance has been generally
limited. The state governments' power over the SFCs, has severely undermined
IDBr's ability to fulfill its functions. State governmepts have constantly
been involved in SPC matters -- for example, appointment of managing direc-
tors and their premature transfer, emphasis on new loan approvals rather than
strengthening existing firms, restrictions on staff recruitment to fill
vacancies -- reflecting different perceptions, priorities and expediencies
regarding the role of the SPCs. Nevertheles,s, some improvements were noted
in recent years. IDBI has been continuously working on the establishment of
a closer relationship with State governments on the SFC matters and, at the
same time, on creating effeqtive vehicles to communicate with SFCs and advise
on their performance.
V. SUBPROJECT PERFORMANCE
Outcome of Loan 1260-IX Subprojects
5.01    Sanctions and Disbursements.  The Bank authorized 763 subprojects
under Loan 1260-IN; 159 were cancelled subsequently, leaving 604 net of
cancellations. The original closing date was December 31, 1978, which was
subsequently extended twice to June 30, 1981 and to March 31, 1983.
Extensions were requested by IDBI, largely because of slow proceeding of
commitments and disbursements and partly because of a 21 interest premium of
Bank funds over other funds available for designated backward areas. As of
March 31, 1983, the actual closing date of this Loan, the entire amount of
the Loan of US$40 million (equivalent of Rs 360 million) was sanctioned.
8FCs authorized a total of Rs 669.19 million, and IDBI authorized refinancing
of Rs 545.35 million (Annex 12). As against the above authorizations, SFCs
and IDBI disbursed Rs 628.66 million and Rs 527.73 million, respectively.
The Loan contribution represented 651 of total IDBI refinannes (disbursed) in
accordance with the agreement reached with the Bank under the Loan.
5.02    The Sample.  To evaluate the impact of subprojects financed, IDBI
reviewed a random sample of 123 subprojects, i.e. a 201 sample, consisting
of 47 "A" subprojects and 76 "B" subprojects. 1/ The detailed evaluation of
these subproject's performance is sumarized below in respect to geographical
distribution, size, profiles of projects, subsector distribution, cost and
financial and economic performanee.
5.03    Geographical Distribution.  As shown 1i Annex 12, five states -- Mad-
hya Pradesh, Tamil Nadut Maharashtra, Gujarat -- accounted for 691 of sub-
projects by number (415 out of 604) and 631 by amount (US$25.22 million out
of US$40 million disbursements) (Annex 12). This distribution is due partly
to these States being more industrialized and having aggressive $FCs. The
SFC in Madhya Pradesh in particular has made a great progress in increasing
the number of subprojects and disbursements during the project period
(Loan 1260). The "first-come-first serve" policy enabled the more aggressive
SFCs to take a large share of the loan uwder the second Project.
1/ "A" subprojects were those above the free limit
"B" below the free limit (para. 3.04).



-15-
5.04    Size of Subloans and Subprojects.  Most "A" subprojects were in the
range between Rs 5 million and Rs 10 million. As regards "B" subprojects,
the majority fell in the range of Rs 2 million and under. The average costs
of "A" and "B" subprojects were Rs 11.71 million and Rs 2.13 million (equiv-
alent of US$1.46 million and US$266,000), respectively. The average costs of
subloans was Rs 1.64 million (equivalent of US$200,000). "A" and "B" sub-
loans financed 14X and 23% of respective subproject costs. Although only
three subprojects in the "A" sample belongtd to the smaxll scale sector, i.e.
fixed investment of less than Rs 2.5 million, about 702 of the "B" sub-
projects fell within the SSI defirition. The site distribution suggests that
sufficient attention was paid for the development of small industries, in
accordance with the project objectives.
5.05    Profile of Sub-Projects.  Annex 14 shows the financing pattern of 88
subprojects. The foreign exchange content was Rs 72.43 million, equivalent
to 482 of the total amount of IDBI's refinance of the SFCs' loans. IDBI's
refinance (foreign exchange and rupee loans) constituted about 45Z of the
SFCs' loans overall. The bulk of financing came from local funds, including
sponsors' equity. Of 107 subprojects, 72 were new, 27 involved expansion and
8 modernization (Annex 15). The general pattern of SFCs financial assistance
clearly indicates a strong bias towards new project approvals, rather than
strengthening and modernizing the existing industrial enterprises. This is
consistent with the first Project.
5.06    Project Cost Estimates and Completion.  Of the 86 subprojects in the
sample (net of cancellations), 47 subprojects, or 55S, were completed within
the cost estimated in the subproject appraisals. The remaining 39 overran
estimates by an average of 212 (Annex 16). Only 17 subprojects in the sample
were completed on time; and the remaining 69 were delayed by 14.8 months on
average. Causes for delay varied. Most delays were due to late arrival of
imported machinery, delay in acquiring technical know-how, and changes in
project designs. In some cases, arranging adequate bank support for working
capital caused delays. In other cases, various government clearances through
relatively cumbersome procedures resulted in a significant delay.
5.07    Financial Performance.  The financial parameters indicate that actual
performance of subprojects fell short of the SFCs' appraisal estimates
(Annex 18). In the first two years, actual sales, in respect of 76
subprojects, were 751 and 81X respectively of expected sales; as against the
estimated profits of Rs 37.7 million (year 1) and Rs 53.8 million (year 2),
subprojects as a whole recorded large losses Tf Rs 30.4 million and Rs 19.4
million, respectively; average capacity utilization was less than 59% and
fell short of the estimated target of about 75Z. Among 62 subprojects which
reported their implementation performance, 40 projects (or 65%) made profits
while 22 firms (or 35%) recorded losses during the second year (Annex 16).
The reasons cited by IDBI for this unsatisfactory financial performance were,
most of all, the increased costs due to time and cost overruns, infrastruc-
tural problems, changes in market conditions, and implementation delays on
average 15 months which resulted in large cost overruns. These factors
demonstrate that loan approval was premature in many instances which reflects
SFCs' drive to increase project approvals without simultaneous effort to
maintain or improve appraisal standards. In India, many of the small
industries are family-operations with a long tradition in the subsector.
While they may know production aspects of the business, their management
skills are outdated and decision-making tends to be ad-hoc. Under the
circumstances, SFCs' appraisal capability could have not only contributed to



-16-
their profitability, but also supported small industries generally by provid-
ing the required training for management and technology advancements.
5.08    Economic Performance.  Data on economic indicators for 69 subprojects
(Annex 17) shows that export earnings increased from Rs 30 million in the
first year to Rs 59.2 million in the second year, or more than 96% increase
over the previous year. This impressive growth was largely attributable to
Tamil Nadu SFC projects -- i.e. the actual export earnings exceeded the
projected export value of Rs 25.0 million. These subprojects generated 5,044
jobs, and the average investment cost per job 1/ was US$9,795 (Annex 19).
The most capital intensive subsectors were chemicals (US$22,156/job), elec-
tronics (US$13,294/job), and paper (US$11,428/job). Printing (US$2,099/job)
and services (US$2,565) were the most labor intensive. The largest
subsector, light engineering, had an investment cost of US$8,279 per job.
Actual value added was about 67% of the estimated figures. Domestic resource
cost (DRC) calculations for 10 selected subprojects (Annex 20) show that 8 of
these had DRCs less than the prevailing exchange rate, indicating economic
efficiency and justification for these subprojects.
5.09    Summary.  The overall implementation performance of the subprojects
under the Bank Loan 1260-IN indicates that many of those incurred financial
losses during the initial two years, largely due to delays in implementation
and the resultant cost overruns. The number of subprojects implemented
witbii. initial estiLhates were about 55% of the projects reviewed, an increase
from 35% under the first Project (Cr. 356-IN); cost overruns as percentage of
estimated costs decreased from 26.2% to 20.7Z; and the number of projects
making profits rose to 65% from about 45% while the projects incurring losses
declined to around 35% from 55% (Annex 16). IDBI views that a major factor
causing time and cost overruns was the entrepreneurs' unwarranted optimism,
as well as failure to perceive factors over which they had little control.
Though the data base is limited on the economic performance of the
subprojects, it can be observed that this Project (Loan 1260-IN) provided
direct benefits such as additional investments and employment generation; and
in addition, contributed significantly to the diffusion of modern technology
into a number of small and medium enterprises. Consequently, many of them
today produce quality goods for domestic and export markets.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
6.01    Loan 1260-IN was the second IDBI/SFCs ?roject for India.  Continuing
the objectives of the first Project, Credit 356-IN, the Loan provided foreign
exchange resources to the SFCs for their financing of SMI projects; assisted
IDBI and 18 SFCs in institutional development and in augmenting operational
efficiency; supported GOI in monitoring the performance of key financial
agencies; and allowed the Bank to participate in the development of small
industries and also to broaden the knowledge regarding state level financial
institutions.
6.02    During the decade when the two projects were implemented, IDBI and
SFCs continuously pursued the project objectives of financing high priority
1/ Investment cost per job excludes land from fixed assets, and includes
buildings, machinery, equipment and permanent working capital.



-17-
SMIs and institutional development of the eighteen SFCs. The PCR (1982) and
the PPAR (1984) for the first Project both concluded that the institutional
upgrading program had not been implement d satisfactorily; collections and
financial performance of the SFCs had deteriorated, and a serious levrel of
arrears had developed. The PCR further pointed out that many subprojects
incurred delays and cost overruns, which reduced their financial and economic
returns. During the second Project, the implementation of the institutional
upgrading program improved, although much remans to be done. Many SFCs have
restructured their organization and streamlined procedures, while IDBI has
increasingly assisted the SFCs with various measures to enhance their opera-
tional and financial capability. However, considering the long time period
and sizable financial resources involved, what SFCs as a whole had
accomplished by the completion of this project was far less than the expected
outcome, i.e. a sound credit delivery system to SMI.
6.03    There remain several outstanding issues.  First, the problem of
collections and arrears has persisted, threatening the financial viability
and creditworthiness of many SFCs. Only in the most recent year (PY86) have
SFCs implemented incentive measures to reduce arrears and to increase
collections. Their impact has yet to be assessed. Second, close coordina-
tion between the SFCs and the commercial banks needs to be encouraged. The
viability of small undertakings depends critically on access to working
capital. The 1984 PPAR stressed that the timely provision of working capital
to SMI was a pressing issue deserved RBI's full attention, study and
intervention. IDBI reported that since FY82, the individual SFCs have worked
out some coordination arrangements with other state-level agencies and com-
mercial banks: some were successful in getting the commercial banks'
favorable response to the demand for timely sanctions of working capital for
the SFCs' subprojects; and in the case of consortium financing, other SFCs
(Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal) have adopted a system of exchanging
appraisal memoranda with SIDCs and commercial banks. All SFCs need further
encouragement to establish a firm link and effective coordination between
term lending by SF.Cs and working capital availability from the commercial
banks. However, until the SFCs can achieve collections that indicate sound
banking practice, the commercial banks will be justified in their skepticism
toward SFCs operations. Consideration should be given to linking continua-
tion of commercial bank lending to repayment of SFC loans. Third, the
implementation of subprojects was marred by time and cost overruns. Most
delays and cost escalation were due to late arrivals of imported machinery,
delay in acquiring technical know-how, and lack of bank support for working
capital. These major problems should be overcome mostly by streamlining
import procedures, providing access to new technology, and an effective
coordination between SFCs, state-level agencies, and commercial banks.
6.04    During the second Project period, IDBI's efforts to help SFCs
institutional development were much more effective than during the first
Project period, With experience gained and its refinancing capability
strengthened, IDBI, as the apex lending institution, has been making progress
in monitoring, supervising and advising on the SFCs operations. IDBI has
also been successful in refining monitoring devices, including annual evalua-
tion reports, Business Plans and Resource Forecasts (BPRFs), operational
guidelines and procedures to provide adequate support to the SFCs in
implementing the upgrading programs. But the problem remains with the SFCs'
deficient collection performance and mounting arrears. IDBI will have to
take a much more assertive stance in resolving this long-standing problem as
a shareholder, creditor and overseer of the SFCs.



-18-
6.05    The Bank's involvement, though it attained less than expected
results, helped identify deficiencies in the SFCs' organizational and
institutional set-up and operations, led to the development of the realistic
upgrading programs, and supported IDBI's efforts to help SFCs introduce
institutional reforms. The 1984 PPAR recognized that as a result of the
project, an indigenous institutional capacity for term financing was
developing, albeit very slowly, catering to the needs of the SMI.
6.06    The implementation of Credit 356-IN and Loan 1260-IN provides an
important lesson. The experience of lending through an apex agency subject
to a system requiring interaetion with central and state governments by means
of institutional processes outside of its direct control may require some
dilution of good banking practice. For example, the record of low collec-
tions and mounting arrears suggests that there needs to be a common under-
standing among all parties concerned of the objectives of financial institu-
tions concerned. The SFCs were clearly unable to sustain internal account-
ability for loan quality and IDBI was unable to effectively discipline these
institutions, given the political priority accorded to rapid expansion in
lending. It wou4d help if IDBI were given some legal instruments to enforce
financial discipline on the SFCs. Firm commitments by financial inter-
mediaries and consistent support by state governments to institutional
development is extremely important, if financial and institutional objectives
are to be achieved. In particular, stability and quality of top management
needs to be retained for the effectiveness of leadership and organizations.
Moreover, commitment to the longer term financial viability must rank in
importance with lending targets, and all concerned agencies must encourage
the SFCs to make the firm decisions which will be necessary to improve col-
lection performance. IDBI's continued support to SPCs should be linked to
collection performance as measured by specific targets (Attachment, page 4).
April 1987
Revised: June 1987



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCa FROJECT (Loan 1260-1N)
SFC's Sanctin- and DisburemEnts. FYSI-s6
State Financial              1980-St        _'  1961-82        _t1962-3               1963-84       1_ _984-8r               1965-1
Corporations             Sanc.     D1ub.   SoWC.      Dlib.   Sanc.      D1ib.   Sonc.      Diab.    sinc.       ab.    Sanc.      C1sb.
Andhra Pradesh            466.8    296.1    615.9    371.6    699.9    449.6    738.9    478.6    907.4    593.7   1.063.9    665.1
A8ssa                       9.1      6.5      40.7     20.4      36.1     37.4      26.0     18.0      28.6     18.6       30.9     22.2
Dihar                     184.0     92.2    369.1    145.1    426.4    17t.4    336.7    157.5    496.4    209.2          634.6    321.3
Delhi                      50.1     3S.6      S8.6     40.9      77.7     47.6      63.0     51.8      79.8     60.9      149.4     70.?
Gujarat                   365.9    275.1    471.5    330.S    645.3    421.0   581.9    383.2    655.4    412.5           746.7    454.9
Haryana                   105.S     51.2    166.6      92.7    312.3    168.0    170.9    135.9    127.7    158.3         240.8    147.7
Himachal Prades           103.5     34.6    107.6      65.7      73.1     61.7      93.6     60.9    165.3      85.6      199.1    12S.5
Jaemu and Kashmir          73.3     50.2      93.4     62.1    119.4      96.0    122.3      88.8    160.0    128.7       182.6    130.5
Karnataka                 210.S    144.1    321.?    216.4    437.6    314.4    582.7    434.6    763.2    846.3   1.035.7    662.9
Kerala                     99.5     84.2      40.2     61.0    122.1      83.1      82.1     6S.7    103.8    120.0       356.2    195t.
Madhya Pradesh            111.6     66.1    162.9   _ a3.5    239.4    140.6    332.9    210.8    419.3    271.6          664.5    3S3.3
Maharashtra               347.7    301.7    345.1    308.7    497.1    321.5    566.6    410.2    578.2    355.6          704.6    431.0
Orissa                    293.7    176.3    425.0    286.8    547.1    320.7    532.4    317.3    531.0    341.9          499.1    3SS.3
Punjab                     93.3     80.1    109.1      87.S    280.0    136.4    224.3    1S5.7        29.6    106.6      313.9    112.1
RaJasthan                 373.9    261.0    4S1.4    299.6   "55.2    375.2    S31.7    388.0    526.3    393.0           641.1    359.7 7
Test) Hadu                362.3    222.S    519.9    345.2   S55.3    395.6    S95.5    411.1    675.5    493.1           923.0    600.0   "0
Uttaer Pradesh            413.0    249.9    557.8    310.2    544.0    360.5    624.5    458.9    924.8    542.8   1.562.2    780.3
West Bengal               114.2      54.4    153.      62.7  _ 192.0    tOO.    249.1    119.8    27f.9    157.1          331.S    187.
Total
Grosg               3.777.9  2.481.8  5,010.5  3,16S.6  6,363.3  4,043.9  6,449.1  4.354.8  7,387.8  4.905.5  10.280.2  S.995.1
Sanctions and                 ====- inuuau  i-Du--- uumu.           u2um  mgmumu   Cuin  uaminua  unmSmu   Pm                 uuinuU
Disbursements
Net Sanctions       3,651.9            4,868.8            5,498.5            6,118.1           6.25143             9.070.S
Source: tOOt



-20 -                                     ANNEX 2
PIOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Sumary of SFC's Operations
(FY82-86)
FY82       PY83        FY84        FY85      FY86        FY82-86
Total Sanctions          4,868.8    5,498.5    6t118.1    6,251.3    9,070.5    31,807.2
(Net Disbusements)       (3,156.6)  (4,043.9)  (4,354.8)  (4,985.5)  (5,995.1)  (22,535.9)
Percentage of
Total Sanctions:
Backward Areas              46          47          50          55          54         51
SSI (Net of S8TO) /a         74         77          75          77          76          76
Nev Projects                 91         90          91          92          90         91
Private Sector              98          97          98          97         97          98
Industries
Food                      11          11          13          11          11         11
Textiles                    7          7           8           8          9           8
Chemicals                 11          13          13          15          15         14
Metal Products             10         11           9           9           8          9
Kachinery                   7          5           4           4          4           5
Services                  12          14          15          13         13          13
Other /b                  42          39          38          40         40          40
Number of Units
(000) Average per
Unit (Net Sanctions)      32          33          31          31         29         156
Rs. '000                  152.15      166.62      197.36    201.66       312.78       204
USDollars '000              17.74      19.42       23.01     23.52        36.47    23.79
(Rs.8.5755) /c
/a SSI - Small-Scale Industries.
SRTO - Small Road Transport Operators
/b Include Paper, Rubber, Cement, Basic Metals, Electrical Machinery,
Transport Equipment and Others.
/c Average rate during the project implementation period.
Note: Some percentages are approximate figures due to non-availability
of detailed breakdown for some SFCs.
Source: IDBI



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND I08I/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
SFC's Net Sanctions and Disbursements  Distribution by Subsector
(Rs millions)
Net Sanctions                                  Disbursements
Cumulative        % of                            Cumulative       % of
Up to      Cumulative                            Up to       Cumulative
Industries                           FYSS          FY86         and Fr86    Assistance       FY85        FY86       and FY66    Assistance
Food                                 696.7         982.3        8.099.8         11.9         609.4       602.4       4.243.8        12.5
Textiles                             496.3         748.1        4.494.8         8.7          383.4       320.4       3.095.0         9.1
Paper                                 174.0        347.2        2,004.0         3.9          132.5       1S2.3       1,405.3         4.2
Chemicals (mdcl. Fertilizers)        962.7       1,415.1        6,822.4        13.3          639.7       570.5       4,321.3        12.0
Rubber                                103.7        170.1          941.2          1.8          94.0       S.0          578.2         1.7
Cement                                138.4         17.1           104.3        0.2           75.9         4.6         382.7         1.1
Basic Metal Industries                175.5        308.6        2,223.4         4.3           196.0      163.7       1.523.2         4.5
Metal Products                       541.5         780.1        4,658.5         9.1          383.7       356.6       2,875.9         8.5       
Machinery                            236.1         370.8        2,105.2          4.1         242.4        119.4      1.579.1         4.7
Electrical Machinery                 257.0         301.7        2,022.1         3.9           189.8      172.4       1,389.9         4.1
Transport Equipment                   93.9         103.9          943.2          1.8          77.5        51.1         678.9         2.0
Electrical Generation                 22.1          36.5          337.0         0.7            9.1         14.0         125.9        0.4
Services                             834.2       1.185.1        6.691.8         13.0         681.8       554.4       4,208.4        12.4
Others                             1,519.9       2,303.9        11.955.7        23.3        1.270.3      980.9       7.435.5        22.0
Total                            6,251.3       9,070.5       51,404.2       100.0        4,985.5    4,118.6       33,844.2       100.0
Ii



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND 1081/SFCO PROJECT (Loan 1260-tH)
Assistance toisburamonts) to Small Induistries. FYSI-8B
(Res millions)
FY81
State Financial      Amount to   % of Total          FY82            FY6                 F84                                    F8
Corporations         SSI*s       Assistance   Amoun~t      I       Amon3t              Amount    __       A=nt    %AvVount                U
Andhmra Pradesh        150.7          61           272.0   73         449.0  100          377.9   79          484.6   82         492.5   74
A.ssam            ~~~~4.3      66             17.4   85          27.8   74           13.9   77            9.9   53          15.3   69
Bihar                   92.0          8912.0 8                         149.2   87         134.6   85          174.8   84         281.1   87
Delhi                   33.6          94            37.9   93          46.;2  97           37.6   72           50.0   82          67.5   95
Gujarat                188.5          69           244.0   74         338.1   80          313.1   82          336.2   82         427.4   94
haryan-t                38.8          76            87.5   82          156.4   93         122.6   90          135.1   85          123.9   84
Himachal Pr-ad*s        18.9         .55            42.9   es           32.1   39          30;-3  44           44.0   51          b0.7   48
Jammw and Kashmnr      41.5           83            51.3   83          82.3   86           67.9   76          108.4   84         118.3   91
Karnataka              81.9           57           166.    77         242.7   77          335.6   77          413.8   76         551.7   81I
Kerala                 S9.4           71            51.0   84          64.4   77           47.5   72           02.2   77         168.1   86
Madhya Pradesh          32.8          s0            49.8   60           82.5   59         141.1   87          192.0   71          286.7   75
Maharashtra            222.0          74           253.6   82          291.4   91         371.9   91          322.6a  91         373.3   87
Orissa                 137.1          78           221.8   86         314.4   98          287.0   90          319.4   93         301.8   es
Punjab                  41.1          Si            80.8   89          109.6   79         119.8  .77           67.9   64          88.0   79
Rajasthan              213.9          82           282.4   94         342.3   91          367.3   95          356.6   91         318.9  899
Tamil Nadu             123.9         5se           254.3   74         326.1   82          371.7   90          458.4   95            NA    NiA
Uttar Pradesh         212.7           85           254.0   80         338.1   89          402.0   88          480.8   89         688.9   88e
West Bengal             31.1          57            35.5   57           64.7   64          01.8   76          124.9   s0          157.1   84
Total             1.744.1          70         2,488.3   79        3,4S7.3   85        3.633.3   83       4.171.0   84        4.501.2   75



-23-                                 ANNEX 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SPCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
SFC$s Loon Assistance to Backward and Other Areas, 1981-86
(Rs millions)
SFC's Cumulative      Total
PY86              Sanctions        Sanctions
State Financial  Backward              Backward              FY81-86    Relative
Corporations      Areas      Other      Areas    Other    All Areas  Size of SFC
(Volume of
sanctions)
Andhra Pradesh     676.8       387.1    2,409.0   2,131.5   4,540.5          2
Assam               30.9        -         161.2       10.2     171.4        18
Bihar              327.1       307.7    1t236.4   1t215.0   2,451.4          9
Delhi               -          149.4       -         436.9     436.9        17
Gujarat            392.0       354.7    1,731.9   1,784.8   3,516.7          4
Haryana            123.1       125.7      436.1      559.2     995.3        12
Himachal Prades    199.1         -        706.6       41.4     748.0        15
Jainu and Kashm    182.6         -        740.6        -       740.6        16
Karnataka          471.8       563.9    1,558.6   1,819.2   3,377.8          5
Kerala             191.2       165.0      429.2      356.5     785.8        14
Kadhya Pradesh     554.3       110.2    1,515.6      405.0   1,920.6        10
Maharashtra        222.5       482.3      981.2   2,155.3   3,136.5          6
Orissa             227.9       271.3      874.7   1,916.2   2,790.9          8
Punjab             132.7       181.2     451.92      482.2     934.1        13
Rajasthan          434.8       206.3    1,902.4   1,199.1   3,101.5          7
Tamil Nadu         289.5       634.4    1,523.2   2,156.5   3,679.7          3
Uttar Pradesh      954.7       607.5    2,731.8   1,901.1   4.632.9          1
West Bengal        155.7       175.8      630.4      686.9   1,317.3        11
Total          5,566.7    4,721.5   20,020.9  19,256.0  39,276.8
aa      =ss    =w ==, = =



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFPC PPOJECT (Loan 1200-IN)
Trends in Arrears of SFCs. fYS2-86 Is
(Rs tn miltlons)
FY82                     FYB3                      Y864                     FY65                      FY66
Arrears                   Arrears                   Arrears                  Arrears                   -rrears
State Financial                  Portfolio                 Portfolio                 Portfolio                Portfolio                 Portfolio
Coroorations         Arrears      S  fb       ArroarO      %  /b        Arrears      %  /b        Arreare      S  JbL .    Arrears       s  /b
Andhrs Pradesh         126.6        lt           163.1        11          2S9.8        1S           347.8        I5          400.8         to
Assam                   53.S        50            61.9       44            85.4        5e            96.7        S8           113.2        62
Bihar                  257.5        35           287.3       31           367.8        33           398.4        29          S23.4         31
Delhi                   42.0        22            43.9       20            46.9        19            35.5        14           57.6         19
Gujarat                412.2        30           464.5       28           S98.1        33           816.8       40         1.066.4         46
Haryana                108.9        28           135.5        27          195.0        34           220.3        34           304.9        43
Hniachal Prades         37.4        22            51.4        21           77.2        23           102.3        25           136.0        29
Jamuu and Kashmir       17.4        10            29.6        11           58.1        18            98.1        22           144.9        27
Karnataka              268.6        32           281.9       26           371.0        27           470.9        28          S54.7         26
Kerala                 222.7        39           259.S       43           295.1        47           325.5        47          350.3         43
Madhya Pradesh          63.4        17            80.4        16           102.2       16           141.3        16           179.3         14
Maharashtra            402.7        28           536.7       33           652.7        35           880.4        36        1t058.8         47
Orissa                 111.2        18           235.6       27           18S.5        17           265.4        19          406.8          24 ~
Punjab                  93.1        23            91.3        18          110.4        16           159.3        24          205.6         29
Rajasthan              107.3        11           253.0       20           2S0.4        16           438.9        24          512.0         25
Tamil Nadu             279.0        29           355.2       28           523.9        34           634.9        33          773.5         34
Uttar Pradesh          254.4        24           3S1.8       26           476.6        27           667.7        31          858.6         31
West Bengal            147.3        38           161.6        3S          215.3        39           128.8        17           139.7         17
Total             3.005.2        25        3.844.2        26         4.871.4        27        6,231.0        29         7,790.3         31
=======   ==  ======m                                                       mu S==-=_=   =-   =====a  W=  ==w===:I
/a Includes suit-filed amounts at end period. but net of amount rescheduled and interest in suspense account.
/b Arrears as a percentage of total loans outstanding.
I0



- 25 -                              ANNEX 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PPOJECT (Loan 1269-IN)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio of SFCs (DSCR), FY82-86
State Financial
Corporations           FY82         FY83         FY84        FY85         FY86
Andhra Pradesh           1.48        1.38         1.21        1.21         1.18
Assam                    1.17        0.64         0.46        0.82         0.92
Bihar                    0.96        0.78         0.80        0.65         0.83
Delhi                    1.22        1.31         1.49        1.24         1.''
Gujarat                  1.02        1.02         1.08        0.96         0.96
Haryana                  1.49        1.61         0.89        1.14         1.29
Himachal Prades          0.83        1.01         0.86        0.83         0.89
Jammu and Kashmir        1.56        0.95         0.55        0.87         1.04
Karnataka                0.88        0.96         1.23        1.23         0.87
Kerala                   0.60        1.07         0.97        1.17         1.23
Madhya Pradesh           0.87        0.88         0.91        0.80         1.04
Maharashtra              1.31        1.li        1.17        1.10         1.09
Orissa                   1.25        0.92         0.73        0.65         0.84
Punjab                   1.04        1.24         1.17        1.10         0.99
Rajasthan                1.03        1.03         0.97        0.77         0.80
Tamil Nadu               1.10        1.11         1.01        0.95         1.08
Uttar Pradesh            1.03        1.07         1.07        0.86         1.00
West Bengal              0.77        0.85         0.92        1.02         0.92
DSCR Definition
Accrual:  Net profit before interest, non-cash charges, plus collection of principal
Repayment of interest and principal, deposits and bond repayments
and or sinking fund provision
Cash:     Net profit before interest, non-cash charges, plus collection of principal
less uncollected interest revenue
Repayment of interest and principal, deposits and bond repayment
Adjusted: Same as Accrual but additional share capital contributed within 9 months
after end of fiscal year is added to dumerator.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA -IDBI/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Collection as Percentage of Amounts Falling Due
Year Ended            Year Ended             Year Ended               Vear Ended            Year Ended             Year Ended
March 31. 1986        March 31. 1985         March 31. 1984           arch 31. 1983          March 31. 1982          March 31. 1981
State Financial Princ-                  Princ-                  Pri                     rinc-                  Princ-                  Princ-
Coreorations   ipal  Interest Total  beal  Interest Total  ipal  Interest Total  poa)  Interest Total   10al Interest Total   ipaa  Interest Total
Andhra Pradesh    61.7   71.3   65.9    64.2   70.2   66.9    69.4   70.9   70.0    74.1   74.0   74.4    75.0   79.9   77.1    75.8   84.7   79.9
Assam              33.6   62.0   48.9    52.3   73.5   61.7    49.2   67.7   57.1    64.3   76.7   70.3    88.7   83.3   86.0    73.6   65.9   69.8
Bihar              46.6   96.2   72.5    42.9   73.8   59.6    37.4   83.6   62.9    82.2   75.1   77.4    41.9   74.8   62.3    28.0   67.5   49.8
Delhi              85.1   86.7   85.9    87.3   91.4   89.2    89.4   93.4   91.4    88.8   90.7   90.4    92.8   94.4   93.3   .98.5   91.6   95.3
Gujarat            61.6   65.6   63.5    61.2   66.0   63.5    75.4   69.1   72.1    82.3   88.0   85.1    99.8   84.3   90.4    59.3  111.1   77.3
Maryana           105.3   97.8  102.2   104.4  120.1  110.4   112.8  107.7  110.6   103.2   92.9   98.5    80.0   77.1   79.2   100.3  102.9  101.7
Himachal Prades   45.9   76.1   62.5    47.8   73.7   62.1    42.2   75.5   59.5    62.1   84.3   74.2    68.5   83.6   76.7    76.9   84.5   80.5
Jammu and Kashmir 60.8   61.9   61.4    59.2   60.3   59.7    S0.5   60.0   54.6    75.3   74.8   76.3    91.1   89.8   90.7    95.9   94.0   95.2
Karnataka          82.4   84.6   83.5    65.9   74.7   69.8    68.8   80.4   73.9    69.4   88.9   77.9    62.0   90.5   74.3    60.6   81.2   69.4
Kerala             86.7   83.3   85.0    81.1   78.3   79.7    58.1   85.3   72.6         NA      NA    67.4      NA     NA    59.0    49.0   55.1   51.9
Madhya Pradesh    55.2   66.1   61.1    66.4   78.0   72.9    86.9   81.7   84.1    79.7   84.9   82.3    53.6   89.6   91.4    78.7   88.8   84.0
Maharashtra        71.5   69.7   70.6    72.7   67.3   69.9    71.4   67.4   69.4    68.1   66.3   67.2    81.3   69.6   75.4    76.7   76.4   76.6
Orissa              NA     NA      NA     51.1   67.7   61.7    45.9   69.1   55.4    34.1   51.8   41.9   113.8  106.1  110.9    65.4   74.1   69.1
Punjab              NA     NA    73.3    60.7   71.4   66.2    83.0   85.9   84.5   114.6   91.9  101.9    77.8   84.6   81.0    84.7   85.4   84.9
Rajasthan          42.8   61.0   51.3    39.3   66.7   52.0    75.7   64.2   69.0    43.0   75.0   57.3    58.7   73.5   85.3   68.4   90.2   78.6
Tamil Nadu          NA     NA    58.8    56.9   74.9   63.8    68.7   65.9   67.5    73.5   70.9   72.3    68.7   82.1   74.5    55.8   64.4   59.7
Uttar Pradesh      60.9   71.4   57.4    66.7   69.3   68.2    52.2   64.3   59.2    59.7   71.9   67.0    78.4   76.4   77.0    97.5  116.6  109.1
West Bengal        80.3   67.4   72.9    70.3   67.4   88.5    52.5   55.3   54.1    69.8   61.2   64.7    42.1   66.7   54.9    45.8   52.9   49.9
NA - Not Available.
0%



PROIECT COUPLOTIOf REPORT
INDIA -106?/SFCO PROJSCT (Lten 1260-0t0i
Collecttetion 9PorO1r u frCe.  FY82-8t
_______________           FY82~~~MI-                          P70eeF3                             FY64rrn  1  ole-     Oe-  urn    IFY661                                    FY66;:- ~ ,   .
St-t- FtinntclTCl Over-  Current                                                                           Tot rOver- CurrntutnCIICc  ver-  Currt   T   C    -rnt   Cotal                           - r CtC-
Corooraetins     Ques   Oue      Do*   ton       %          fl" u            Ilan    _           Does     Ouo   tion      8   Oues  DO_o        PM!L  t1ln      S   Dues   Duos      Du.   lIen      S
Andhrs Pedest    10I.6  236.5  338t1   213.3  6I   126.8  319.t5   446.1   266.4  64   163.1  490.5  6S3.6  3e6 4  57   259.6   575.0    634.8  437.5  Sf  347.8  6869  1.i034 .    534.6  52
A.C.m              50.2    17.4   67.6    15.0:  22    53.5      2.80   79.63   16.2  23   61.9   34.6   96.7    19.91  21   65.4    36.4    123.9   24.4  20    98.7   62.           151. 2    28.6  19
Iare              219.0   120.6  339.8   74.  22   257.5   I28.8  3863    96.0  26  287.3   201.6   468.9   17.0  24  367.6   228.9   s9.s7   336.4  23  3S. 4   27t.3   669.7   196.7  29
Dtelhi             37.9   35.6    13.7   33.4  45    42.0   41.7   83.?   37.5  4S    43.9   45.8    69.7   49.7  5S   46.9   50.4                97.3   5S.0  57    3S.5    62.0      97.5   65.0  67
Gujarat           378.9  302.3  681.2  272.4  40   412.2  338.3  7505.  286.0  3S   484.5  479.3  943.8  34S.7  37   59S.1  552.9  *.15t.0  361.1  31  616.8  617.4  1.434.2   392.3  27
t4.yona           129.8    70.5   200.3   62.6  41   10I.9   60.4   169.3    95.7  SI   135.S  103.9  239.4   314.9  48   195.0   126.5    321.5  139.7  43   220.3  149.3    369.6   *52.7  41
HIIechal Prudes    30.4    26.e   57.0    2t.2  37    37.4   43.9  .79.3    30.8  39    51.4    62.1   113.5    37.1  33    77.2   79.3    156.5   49.2  31   t02.3  105.6   207.9   66.0  32
JOm_u end Kehmir 23.6    39.9   43.7   36.$  83   I7.4   49.7   67.1    37.S  56    29.6    67.6    97.2   36.9  3S    58.1   I0.                1S9.2   53.0  33   96.1   321.0   219.1   74.3  34
Karnetaka*        23e.1 I 43.4  379.5  106.6  28  288.6  207.0  475.6   161.3  34   281.9  291.3  573.2  255.0  44   373.0  493.0    862.0  331.0  38   470.9  541.0  1.011.9  451.7 4S
Kerala            t82.5   98.2   260.?  S.0  21   222.7  1t2.0  334.7   76.0  23   259.5  330.2  389.7   94.5  24  -49S.1   349:6   444.7   119.2  27   325.S  365.0   490.5  t40.2  29
Madhya Pradese     SO.1   64.5  104.6   49.9  48    63.4   77.2   140.6   83.5  45   S0.4  tO#.2  t88.6   91.0  48   102.2  t57.9    260t.  IS.1 44   141.3  268.0   409.1   I63.7  40
U.h*arshtre       311.9   369.?  e6t.5   278.9  4A   402.7  40S.7   811.4  274.7  34   536.7  482.7 1.019.4  334.8  33   632.7  622.0  1.274.7  396.0  31   006-.4  630.7  I.S11.1  445.0  29
Ort-se            107.6   03.6  203.2   103.0 32   111.2  223.0  334.2   93.4  28   235.6  252.4  488.0  139.6  29  tS.5S   270.S    456.0   166.9  37   268.4  242.8   508.2  204.t 40
Punjeb             75.1   95.1  170.2    76.6  43   93.3   89.6  182.7   96.8  54   91.3  122.6  213.9  103.6  46   110.4  144.7    2S5.1   95.8  38   tS9.3   173.6   332.9  127.3  38
Rajoasthen         93.4   t84.6  275.9   120.5  44   107.3  3*5.3  442.6  168.4  38   253.0  434.3  687.3  230.6  34   250.4   547.4    797.8  284.4  36   438.9  645.2  1.084.l  231.1  31
TmolI  ae du      231.6   2,5.1  436.9  137.6  31   279.0  274.6  653.8  198.4  36   355.2  373.9  729.1  252.3  3S   523.9  507.3  1.031.2   323.8 3S   634.9  691 8 9 .326.?  407.0  31
Utter ProddeR     222.6   188.3   410.9   141.8  34   254.4  269.0  628.4   t0.2  34   351.8  376.3  728.1  222.6  31  476.6  443.0   919.6  302.1  33   6617.7  613.8  1.281.3  409.6  32 1
West 6n0t#    125.4   76.4  201.6    41.9  21   147.3 S54              2#.      " 2  24   161.6  131.9  293.6    71.3  24  235.3 t.2.f.          351.5   93.3  27   120.6  172.3   30.   1.7  42
Total          2.5906. 2.358.6 4.954.7 1,8e6.5  38 3.005.2 3.109.2 6.114.4 2.261.0 37 3.844.2 4.19.4 6,033.0 2,886.3  36 4.87S.4 5.222.1 30.093.S 34t3.79  34 6.231.0 6.210.0 12.441.0 4.316.0  35 .-
Reotoo
f  Arrears Inclucte aounts Invotved In suit-tiled cae. or whore Recorey Certificatee he" been losued.
bs  The clositg en  opening tlurea of overdus  =ay not tally on account of cult-filled/rectllol &eeounts. rochvdul_ent. Werte-off. etc.



- 28 -                                 ANNEX 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCo PPOJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Summary of Financial Statistics: All SFCs
(Re in millionn)
PY82        FY83        PY84         FY85         FY86
Financial Assistance
Sanctions (Net)              49868.8      5,498.5     6,118.1      6,251.3     9,070.5
Commitments                  6,321.7      7,174.2     8,236.3      9,396.0    11,605.2
Disbursements                3,156.6     4,043.9      4,354.8      4,985.5     5,995.1
Financial Position
Total Resources             12,562.0    15,720.0    18,809.0    22,131.0    26t130.0
Outstanding Loans           11,980.0    15t100.0    18,103.0    21,443.0    25,495.0
New Worth                    2,497.0      3,080.0     3,679.0      4,361.0      5,248.0
Equity:  Paid-up           1,555.0     2,000.0      2,496.0      3,055.0     3,775.0
Reserves:  General           862.1        982.9     1,069.7      1,282.3     1,311.9
Bad Debt Provisions         79.9        97,1        113.3        123.7       161.1
Total Jebts
IDBI Loans (Refinance)    59735.0      7,540.0      9,016.0    10,382.0    11,960.0
IDBI Equity in SFCn          648.1       874.3      1,136.0      1,392.9     1t738.0
Total IDBI               6,383.1     8,414.3    10,152.0    11,774.9    139698.0
I of Total IDBI/Total
Resources                     50.8         53.5        54.0         53.2        52.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                4.0          4.1         4.1          4.1          4.0
linancial Performance
Gross Revenue                  900.4      1t332.8     1,438.8      1,850.3     2,312.4
Net Profits                    194.4        280.5       181.8        194.9        248.6
Net Profit/R venue (%)          21.6         21.0        12.6         10.5         10.7
Return onEquity (X)              7.8          9.1         4.9          4.5          4.7
Administration Expenses/
Total Assets (1)              1.13         1.21        1.28         1.12         1.15
Profit before Taxes,
Interest, and
Provision (EBIT)              734.3    1,077.3      1t138.3      1,499.5     1,896.6
ource: IDBI



- 29 -                           ANNEX 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PPOJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Consolidated Balance Sheet of SpCs, FY82-86
(Rs in million8)
Liabilities                     FY82      PY83       PY84       ?Y85       PY86
Share Capital a/             1,555     2,000      2,496      3,055      3,775
Reserves                       242     1,080      1,183      1,306      1,473
Bonds                       4,159      4,870      5,858      7,191      8,734
Borrowings from
-  RBI                         57        60         24         44         90
-  IDBI                    5,735      7,540      9,016    10,382    11,960
-  Others                      38        80        114         63         72
Fixed Deposits                 133       150        142        134        116
Other Liabilities              702       840        883      1,212      12217
Total                    13,321    16,620    19,716    23,387    27,437
-_2u~     umm=       uine=      mmuu       s=u-t=
Assets
Cash and Bank Balances         466       530        665        864        836
Investments                    119       100        105         96         97
Loan and Advances           11,980    15,100    18,103    21,443    25,495
Other Assets                   756       890        843        984      1t009
Total                    13,321    16,620    19,716    23,387    27,437
:==S       =u=         ==tumn    5=
a/  Including loans in lieu of capital and Share Applicaton Honey.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA -IO6I/SFC6 PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Suamry of SPCV Stafing Pfatt"ern Dring fY62 to FY65
(g in mi7t1ens) 
Staff on hand as of 03-31-82   Staff on hand a  of 03-St-83   Staff on hand as of 03-31-84    Staff on hand as of 03-31-6S
Stato r 1nancta1                                         o   6da   f0
Corporations    Profeassions,  Others  Total   Profeasionals  OtheEs  Total   ProfoOssonsls  Others  Total    Pr-1stons Is  Others  total
Andhra Prad-sh          122        365     487           141        400     541            155        392     547            269        301      590
Assea                   NMA          A      NA            47         60      107            40         64      104            44         70      114
Bihar                   118        308     426           1S2        216     368            152        213     365            ISO        213      363
Delhi                    21        117      138           21        III      132            22        122      144            22        114      136
Gujarat                 126        426     S52           131        512     643            153        535     666             161       S66      729
Haryana                   12       284     296            16        263     299              1s       291     309              16       296      316
Himachal Prades          27         37      64            30         36      66             30         37       67            32         49       GI
Jammu and Kashmir        21        135    1S             19        135      154            19        141      160            28        17S      203
Karnataka                57        241     298            72        282     354            123        331     454             96        404      500
Kerala                   60        253     313            61        2S3     314             61        253     314             63        236      321
Madhya Pradesh           64         S6      120           78         S6      134            75         73      148            83         96      lt1
Maharashtra             394        567     961           390        609     999            390        649   1.039            423        653   1.076 cA
Orissa                  105        348     453            NA         NA      NA             NA         MA       MA            52        S16      SB8e
Punjeb                   67        202     269            32        189     221             6s        192     260             56        231      287
Rajasthan               139        24S     384           209        429     638            253        455      708            162       677    a63
Tamil Nadu               93        213     306            44        259     303             6t        304     365             126       260      406
Utter Pradesh           2S1        331     582           246        337     583            276        370     646            293        429      721
West Bengal              52         94      146           16        tS5      173            19        169      le6             70       1ta      162
Total                1.729      4,222   5.951         1.707      4.322   6.029          1.915      4.591   6.506          2.168      5.445   7.613
==== =====   ==== 2s == = S   =  .ssas.                                      .=""wS = . = flfl  . . .    .    .    hl.  Sflfl
U



- 31 -                                    ANNEX 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBU/SFCs PPOJBCT (Loan 1260-IN)
SPCs Sanctions and Disbursements under Loan 1260-IN
(Ri in millions)
Loan 1260
sanctions       Disbursements    Loan 1260  Contribution as
State Financial    no of      SPC     2DBI       SPC       IDBI     Contribution Proportion of
Corporations   Subprojects  Loan  Refinance   Loan   Refinance   (USs mill)  IDB! Refinance
Andbra Pradesh       43      49.74    42.04      49.74      37.62        3.18             72.6
Assam                 3       2.11      1.73      2.11       1.64        0.13             68.3
Bibar                 6      12.69      9.63     12.69       8.87        0.67             64.9
Delhi                28       9.54      9.54      9.54       8.78        0.61             59.8
Gujarat              69      75.13    71.37      71.37      71.37        5.02             63.5
Naryana               7      13.49    12.15      11.84      11.84        0.89             65.0
Himeebal Pradesh      t      16.53    15.48      15.39      15.39        1.17             65.4
Jama and Kashmir    2         1.73      1.43      1.65       1.43        0.13             79.0
Karnataka             9      13.75    13.75      13.75      13.75        0.91             60.8
Kerala                4       5.55      5.55      5.55       5.55        0.40             65.0
Nadbys Pradesh      160     144.68   126.17    123.60    121.82          9.24             65.9
Maharashtra          85     104.59    72.21    104.59       69.79        5.42             67.0
Oiriaa                5       9.39      8.54      9.39       8.54        0.64             65.0
Punjab                8      20.54    17.58      15.64      15.64        1.18             65.0
Rajasthan            13      18.50    18.01      17.53      17.53        1.35             66.4
Tamil Nadu          101     118.92    73.26    118.92       72.81        5.54             65.3
Uttar Predesh        18      21.65    20.72      20.72      20.72        1.50             62.4
West Bengal          36      30.66    J6.25      24.64      24.64        2.02             69.2
Total          604      669.19   545.35    628.66    527.73        40.00              65.0
us           .  a
Notes  Exchange rate 'used (Rs 8.5755 per US$) was average during
the project implementation period (1976-83)



- 32 -                               ANNEX 13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECONDIDBI/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Size Distribution of Subprojects and Subloans
(Re in millions)
'A' Subprojects        '8' Subprojects
No.      Amount        No.      Amount
Rs 1 million and under                     -           -         19          9.66
Rs above 2 million - Rs.2 million          1          1.60       15         22.50
Rs above 2 million - Rs.3 million          2         4.47         3          7.51
Rs itove 3 million - Rs.4 million          -           -          3         10.93
b tiove 4 million - Rs.5 million           -          -           -           -
Rs above 5 million - Rs.6 million          3         17.40        1          5.95
Rs above 6 million - Rs.7 million          4        26.27         1          6.02
Rs above 7 million - Rse8 million          2         15.22        2         14.90
'R  above 8 miLlion - Rs.9 million         2         17.50        -           -
Rs above 9 milli,on and above             22       339.12         2         20.40
36       421.58        46        97.87
AiQkL  size of 'A' subproject - Rs 11.71 million
Average size of 'B' subproject - Rs 2.13 million
'A' Sub-loans          'B' Sub-loans
Rs. 0.25 million and under                 -        -            15        1.98
Re 0.25 million - Rs 0.5 million           1       0.49          18        6.32
Rs 0.5 million - Rs 1 million              4       3.35           8        5.56
Rn 1 million - Re 1.5 million              4       5.32           5        5.91
Rs 1.5 million and above                  33      59.59           2        3.15
42      68.75          48      22.92
=o   sban 14  million
Average size of 'A' subloan - Rs 1.64 million
Average size of 'B' subloan - Rs 0.48 million
Sourtel ID8I



PROJECT rOUPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND ItDX/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Finencino of Suborolects und-r Loan 1260-IN
(Rs millions)
SFC Loans        Other      Sponsors    Other
Project Cost         IDBI Refinances    Loans         Equity    Financing          Total
State Financial                  -----------------       ----------------                                           ---------------
Corporations        Projects    Est.          Act.         FE         Rs       Rs /a        Rs         Rs /b         FE       Rs
Andhra Pradesh           4         25.99       30.84       3.52      3.24        10.70       6.90        6.48       3.52       27.32
Assam                    1          1.43        1.45       0.41      0.05       N"i          0.97        0.02       0.4t         1.04
Bihar                    4         31.83      51.29         -        9.99       28.35        11.45        1.50       -         51.29
Delhi                    2          2.38        2.61      0.62       0.79         -          0.79        0.41       0.62        1.99
Gujarat                  7         61.99       13.41      10.55      8.36       24.13       20.06        10.31     10.55       62.86
Haryans                  3         25.27       26.63        -        6.90         7.70       6.89        5.14        -         26.63
Himachal Prades          6         54.17       72.07      9.60       4.51       25.36        18.29       14.31      9.60       62.47
Jammu and Kashmir        2          3.14        2.48      0.82       0.91         -          0.75         -         0.82         I.66
Karnateke               11        34.96       34.54       9.16       3.45        10.81       6.64        4.48       9.16       2S.38
Kerala                   1         9.00        10.90      0.40       2.10        2.46        2.41        3.53       0.40       10.SO
Maclhya Pradesh          3         t8.98       19.02       3.67      2.14        8.84        4.89         1.48      3.67       15.35
Maharashtra             17         87.47      92.46       14.19      15.21      24.26       24.24        14.56     14.19       78.27
Oriesa                   3         29.94       35.67       3.80      4.10        13.23       10.25       4.29       3.80       31.87
Punjab                   3         18.29       14.91      3.49       2.45        3.40        4.49         1.06      3.49       11.42
Rajasthan                3         28.84       29.09       2.73      6.27        6.99        5.70        6.40       2.73       26.36
Tamil Nadu              11         21.84       22.00      6.96       2.42        4.60        4.75        3.27       8.96       15.04
Utter Pradesh            2         21.48       19.15        -        4.35        10.33       2.97         1.50       -         19.15
West Bengal              5         13.59       12.20       2.51      2.11        3.65         2.60        1.33      2.5t        9.69
Total                88        490.59      550.72      72.43      79.35      181.8?      135.04       82.09      72.43      478.29
/a  Provided by SFCs and other Institutions, including commercial banks.
/b Other forms of financing such as bills rediscounting and seed capital in some cases.
FE   Foteign Exchange.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND ID8I/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Type of Assistance Sanctioned by SFCs
(Rs millions)
New                       Ex:ansion/Diversification         Balancing Equipment/Wodernization
Stats Financial        No. of                                 No. of                                 No. of
Corporations         Projects      FE      Rs.     Total   Projects    FE        Rs.      Total   Projects       FE       Rs.   Tofal
Andhra Pradesh           7         6.63    6.95    13.58         -         -       -         -
Assam                    -          -        -         -         1       0.41    0.05       0.46       -          -        -        -
Bihar                    4          -       9.13      9.13       -         -       -         -
Delhi                    4         3.22    0.96       4.18       1       0.76      -        0.76       -          -        -        -
Gujarat                  3         3.80    4.85       8.65       3       4.34    4.56       8.90       -          -        -        -
Haryana                  3          -       7.84      7.84       -         -       -         -         -          -        -        -
Himachal Pradesh         7        13.20    3.91    17.11         -         -       -         -         -          -        -        -
Jamm%u and Kashmir       1         0.74    0.86       1.60       -        -        -         -         1         0.10    0.20    0.30
Karnataka               10        12.72    3.51    16.23         2        1.31    0.58      1.89       2         2.33    1.69    4.02
Kerala                   1         0.42    2.08       2.50       -         -       -         -         -          -        -        -
Madhya Pradesh           2         3.31    2.69       6.00       -         -       -         -         1         0.38      -       0.38
Maharashtra              9         7.62   10.90    18.52        15       7.24    5.00    12.24         2         2.78    0.49    3.27
Orissa                   3         3.00    3.10       6.10       -         -       -         -         -          -        -        -
Punjab                   2         2.91    3.09       6.00       1        1.82    0.28-    2.10                                                - - - -
Rajasthan                4         5.48    6.52    12.00         1       0.39    0.11       0.50       -          -        -        -
Tamil Nadu               5         5.69    1.54       7.23       1       0.07    0.21       0.28       2         1.16    0.59    1.75
Uttar Pradesh            4         0.35    9.03       9.38       -         -       -         -         -          -        -        -
West Bengal              3         2.09    2.91       5.00       2       0.9e    0.35       1.31                  -        -        -
Total                 72        71.10   79.87   151.05       27       17.30   11.14    28.44         8         6.75    2.97    9.72
==       =====   S=#=   =====S        ==      ~      ====::  ===wU =s=2e      =         ====    3===    ====
_    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
SuboroJect Impl*mentatVn Performance
Delay                                     No. of      No. of      Cost Overrun
No. of                 Average        Caaacity       Projects    Projects        As a
Projects    No. of    Delay         Utifization      Within         That      Percentage    No. of Projects
State Financial      Completed   Projects    In ol        Est.    Act.    Initial      Exceeded   Estimated          Making
Corporations        On Time     Delayed   Months         s        %      Estimate    Cost Est.  Cost b/         Profits   Losses
Andhra Pradesh          1          4          12.0         NA      NA         -            4          18.7         NA         NA
Assam                   I          -           -           02      NA         -             1          1.4           1         -
Bihar                   -          4          19.5         77      42         1            3          61.1           t         3
Delhi                   -           2          6.5         s0      83         1             1         22.8           2         -
Gujarat                 1           4         22.0         l6      78         -            5          23.1           S         -
Haryana                 -           3         17.6         55      55         2             1         14.4           2         1
Himachal Pradesh        -           6         16.5         NA      NA         -            6          33.0          NA         2
Jammu and Kashmir       1           1          4.0         NA      NA         2            -            -            2         -
Karnataka               2          5          20.2         MA      NA         8            2          20.0           7         -
Karala                  -           1         36.0        90       60         -             1         21.1           -         I
Wadhya Pradesh          -           3         14.3         s6      79         2             1         11.7           2          1
Maharashtra             2          15         1S.0         00      52        12            5          17.0           5         a
Orissa                  -           4         11.2        o0       46         -            3          19.1          NA         1        w
Punjab                  -          2           3.0         MA      NA         1             1          3.8           1         2
Rajasthan               1          3          13.7         70      29         2             1         13.1          NA         2
Tamil Nadu              4          7          24.0         79      65        10             1         39.0          10         1
Uttar Pradesh           2          2          13.0         NA      NA         3             1          8.6           1        MA
West pengal             2           3          3.0         NA      NA         3            2          24.4           1        NA
Total                17         69          14.8         76      59       47            39          20.7         40         22
=s         ==          =s2==       33       3=       =3            ==          3==5         ==         =2
a/  Average for projects which were delayeds excludes projects completed on time.
b/ Average for projects which incurred overrunsa excudes projects completed without overruns.



PROJECT COMPLETrON REPORT
INDIA - SECOND ID8/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-I)
Economic Indicators ot Subor3j6cta Financed
(Rs in mi11ion)
Values of Export                        Employment                Value Added
State Financial        No. of            First Year             Second Veer
Corporations        SubProjects      Estimate   Actual       Estimate   Actual        Estimate   Actual         Estimate   Actual
Andhra Pradesh           3             0.250     0.210          0.200     0.230           436       418             6.010    3.330
Assam                    1               -         -              -          -            250       274             0.800    0.994
Bihar                    4               -         -              -          -            130       143             5.620    0.680
Delhi                    2               -         -                         -             83        65             1.230    0.570
Gujarat                  9            22.530     8.940         29.650    12.320           394       407            16.150   17.320
Haryana                  2             9.000     5.160         10.500     5.320           305       110             4.440    0.910
Himachal Pradesh         5               NA      0.010            NA       0.070          329       337            16.030    5.160
Jhmmu and Kashmir        2               -         -              -          -             64        42             1.250    0.540
Karnataka                4             3.000     0.403          3.000      1.820          463       378            14.832   13.314
Kerala                   I               -         -              -          -             61        69             1.410   (1.720)
Madhya Pradesh           I               -       0.621            -        0.621          200       200             3.060    2.370
Maharashtra             11             3.130      1.080         3.330      2.93,;       1.072       945            30.800   19.510
Orissa                   2               -         -              _    -                   87        SO             2.610    1.650
Punjab                   3               -         -              -          -            475       336             8.320    8.010
Rajasthan                1               -         -              -          -             114       39             2.030   (0.960)
Tamil Nadu              11            12.500    13.120         25.000    35.210           729       671            14.000    9.370
Uttar Pradesh            2               -         -              -          -            216       164             3.760    4.760
West Bengal              S               NA     -0.600            NA       0.640           195       66             ?.030    7.120
TOTAL                69           50.410    30.144          71.880    59.161         5.537    5.044            139.402   92.988
=        ~~===uS==    *=US=:==     ===3m=    =u=uu=t        55u3==    ====-           S=2=S= _g=
I|



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Financial Performance of Subprojects
(Rs in million)
Total Sales                          Gross Profit/(Loss)                   Profit/(Loss) Before Tax
State Financial  No. of      First Year         Second Year          First Year          Second Year          First Year          Second Year
Corporations    Subpr.  Estimate  Actual   Estimate    Actual  Estimate   Actual   Estimate   Actual  Estimate   Actual   Estimate   Actual
Andhra Pradesh      1      2.020    2.380       2.300    1.480      D.10    (0.080)      0.120    0.870      0.050   (0.180)       0.070    0.650
Absam               1      0.036    0.036       0.038    0.016      0.003    0.008       0.003    0.002      0.001    0.001       0.001    0.001
Bihar               3     11.060    4.400      12.970    6.750      3.040   (1.610)      3.910   (1.020)    0.310   (2.460)        1.470   (2.330)
Delhi               2      3.390    2.830       3.920    3.910      0.790    0.560       0.930    0.840      0.410    0.080        0.560    0.150
Gujarat             9     91.250   81.180    116.230   98.930    13.200   12.890         18.210   18.290    11.860    0.72C        8.630    4.380
Haryana             1      6.000    5.370       7.000    6.265       1.960    0.290      2.100    0.3I0       1.220    0.290       1.420    0.337
Himacnal Pradesh   5      56.710    7.750      71.240   20.610      8.290   (0.340)    14.040    1.180        4.090   (3.210)      7.230   (1.670)
Jammu and Kashmir  2       1.840    0.520      13.770    5.320      0.650    0.500        1.220    0.370      0.040    0.090       0.600   (0.210)
Karnataka           9     44.490   24.970      62.100   39.870      6.790    2.050       9.490    4.020       1.800   (3.280)      3.220   (4.720)
Kerala              1      2.830    2.430       5.350    2.790      0.170   (0.990)      0.730   (0.840)    0.170   (0.990)        0.730   (0.840)
Madhya Pradesh      3     32.000    6.350      37.220   13.420      7.550    1.110       9.940    3.710       4.340   (2.170)      6.550   (0.950)
Maharashtra        13    104.080   80.620    109.060   93.230    24.-080    3.260       27.130    0.460       8.530   (8.950)    11.990  (11.590)  W
Oriss&              2      7.100    3.390      10.660    3.480      2.410   (3.930)      3.580   (7.990)    1.200   (6.150)        2.020  (10.750) -4
Punjab              3     51.480   59.280      54.680   78.210      3.420    3.130       4.090    3.450       0.960   (1.750)      1.780   (0.890)
Rajasthan           3     14.900   13.609      17.500   12.470      4.200   (3.610)      4.510   (1.290)    1.200   (3.110)        1.700   (2.330)
Tamil Nadu         11     97.430   78.420    108.290   90.680       8.140    5.260       9.170    6.680       2.790    0.590       4.030    1.290
Uttar Pradesh       2      3.640   11.950       3.370   20.750    (2.160)   0.320         7.820    8.440    (2.070)   0.370        0.480    7.710
West Bengal         5     32.650   35.840      36.290   45.910      4.140    3.370        4.750    5.130      0.820   (0.290)      1.340    2.350
Total           76    562.906  421.325    671.988  544.091    86.773   22.188    121.743   42.612    37.721  (30.399)    53.821  (19.412)
=    =======  =======    =======  =5=====    ===5==   ======    =======   ======    ======  ==S=====    Z==5==  ========~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14



- 38 -                             ANNEX 19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Actual Investment Costs per Job by Subsector
Investment    Investment
No. of                            Cost Per       Cost Per
Sub-                  Project   Job (Rs. N    Job (US$
Subsector        ftojects   Employment       Cost    Per worker)   Per Worker)
(Rs. 14)
Food                 4           256         19.11       0.075         8t746
Paper                1           174         17.04       0.098         11,428
Chemicals
(including
fertilizers)      9           757        143.75      0.190         229156
Electronics          8           493         56.44       0.114         13,294
Light Engineering   12           767         54.27       0.071         8,279
Printing             4           358          6.55       0.018         2,099
Services             3           101          2.19       0.022         2.565
Leather              4            44         23.68       0.053         6,180
Others              14           995         42.88       0.043          5,014
Total             59         4,345        365.91       0.084         9t795
Im                                  m====
* Exchange rate used (Rs 8.5755 per US Dollar) was the average rate prevailing
during the project implementation period (1976-83).



- 39 -                              ANNEX 20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCm PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Domestic Resource Coat (DRC) of Selected Subprojects
No. of the        Name of the
Subproject        Subproject          Subsector       SFC               DRC
(Ezxchange Rat-e)
A-36       Pennar Paper Ltd.        Paper          Andhra             8.13
Pradesh         (12.50)
A-46       Tishu & Fibres Ltd.       Paper         Himachal           6.95
Pradesh         (12.50)
A-48       Kapco International      Misc.          Himachal           9.77
Ltd.                                 Pradesh          (12.50)
A-12       Pioneer International   Misc.           Jammu &           12.63
Sports Co P. Ltd.                    Kashmir          (12.50)
A-10       Orcee Electronics P.    Electronics   Karnataka          31.00
Ltd.                                                   (8.50)
A-28       M. P. Veneer &           Misc.          Madhya            5.99
Plywood P. Ltd.                      Pradesh           (8.50)
A-24       Flexpak Ltd.             misc.          Karnataka          5.69
(8.50)
A-25       Vijay Wires &            Misc.          Karnataka         6.95
Filaments P. Ltd.                                      (8.50)
A-34       Scottie India Ltd.        Electronics   Karnataka          5.85
(8.24)
A-38       Mysore Chrome Tanning                   Karnataka          7.49
Co. Ltd.               Leather                         (8.50)



- 4o -                             ANNEX 21
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND IDBI/SFCs PROJECT (Loan 1260-IN)
Estimated and Actual Disbursements under Loan 1260-IN
---
Disbursement  Withdrawals    Estimated   Actual   Actual as S
by IDBI        60X                                of Estimated
Rs million                      US$ million
Up to June 1981         378.88     246.27          30.784    30.011       97.49
PY_1-82
Jul-Sep 81            9.48        6.16           0.686     0.667       97.23
Oct-Dec 81             7.61       4.95           0.549     0.538       98.00
Jan-Mar 82           40.08       26.05           2.894     2.784       96.20
Apr-Jun 82            17.42      11.32           1.258     1.175       93.40
PY82-83
Jul-Sep 82            4.89        3.18           0.353     0.330       93.48
Oct-Dec 82 ]
]         59.09      39.41           4.268      3.835      89.85
Jan-Mar 83 ]
Mar-Jun 83            10.28       6.68           0.742     0.660       88.95
Total             527.73      343.02         41.534    40.000        96.31



- 41 -                         1TA     I
Page 1 of 9
B_k=omR&12cA
kf I  AAZZVZk
)P.C. D.i1R
R   Ch;DiR j,TC;iL oveemmt f Ida B(hart Sarkar)
Ministar y Fl aac (Vita umtwalaya)
D*9partZflt of roowmic MAairs Athik Karya VNba)
qf ft#/N.w D.Il, the 5th auney 87.
De ar          d
Res Project Completion Report on India
- Second IDBI/SPCs ProJect
(Loan 1260-IN)
Kindly refer to Mr. Alexander
Nowicki, Division Chief, OED's telex of
2nd Juneg1c:87 extending deadline for
comments on the PCR for 2nd IDBI/SFCs ProJ.
(Ln.1260-IN) upto end of June,1987.
2.     I enclose herewith a copy of the
detailed com;;ents offered by IDBI on the
above ICR WhjiCn may kindly be passed on
to 0Me
With kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
(/o,ta --.  ._o
Shri C.h. VA6iDEV,
Adviser to MD(Bank),
C/o Indian Embassy,
Wash i   onl.
Ricl: as above?



- 42 -                    ATTACHMENT I
Page 2 of 9
DXA=mium9QtInsm   XI      E
The ProJect partly            Considering the PerformaneS  of
achieved its obJectives.      IDDI      and  SFCa vis-a-vis the
(Para 2 of Blighlights)       obJectives   of the Project    via.
providing   assistance   to    high
priority     SKI    soctor      and
institutional upgrodation of  SIC.
to ensure sound credit delivery
system to SKI sector, the Project
should  be  oonsidered  as  having
significantly      achieved     its
obJective.   The  rapid  growth  In
SYCs lending operations over the
Project period and its Impact have
been highlighted In PCR itself in
Para 4.01.
As acknowledged in PCR (Para 4.09
to 4.15), there has been noticeable
improvement   in  the  quality   of
management and staff, policies and
procedures and appraisal capacity
of    SYCs.   The    institutional
upgradation     programe    boeas
effected      tbuch       different
machanims-like annual evaluation
studiens,  statutory  inspections,
*   ~nominations    on   the    Boards,
discussion  with Chief  2eoutives,
dialogue   with  the   operational
ataff,   besides Conferenes  and
Seminars and guidelines, is an on-
going process and the efforts In
this direction are continuing for
achievins further improvments.
The del    U 4Jple atation Aas  ackmowleded    some "of  -the
and 1resu tnt coxt 'verwus  -factors   vausitg
experienced in the first      overrun  are beyond I   e@on io02
Project continues in this     SCg    t therldo on2ut " dool
thx 8FCs ia   lfiadlgthroS d
AlProujc   aom  factors that   their         do .bglgur
caused tim1e and cost         guidance   -of   IDBI.    Through
overruns wre beyond  ;h,                    



-3                       ATTACMNT I
Page 3 of 9
control of the lending        mme, the process of human resources
lAstitutions, nevertheless,   development   and  upgradation   of
SIC. could have dealt with    skill.s  in  in  progress  in  the
these problems to a signi-    maJority of BCs.  The ProJect cist
ficat extent, if they had    estimates   including   coAtingency
properly strengthened their   provision,   financing   plan   and
appraisal capacity to review  implementation  scbeduleas  of  sub
more carefully technical       rojects   particularly  in medium
designs, to assess project    sectors    ar      also     broadly
cost more realistically to    scrutinised by IDB! for the purpose
allow for adequate pries      of    rfinance    and,   wherever
escalation and physical       necessary, BCIs  have  been given
oontingencies and to develop  proper guidance.
more realistic financine
plans and implementation      Govt. has already formulated a long
schedules.                   term  export-import policy  and the
(Para 3 of Highlights)       import polico  and procedures have
been  streamlined.   The  licensing
The implementation of sub-   procedures  for Import of know -how
projects is marred by time    have   also  been  implified.    A
and cost overruns.            Venture  Capital lund has beon  set
up in IDEI to encouragoe development
Some delays and cost          of  indigenous  technology    and
escalations were due to late  oommercial adaptation of  imported
arrivals of imported maohi-  toehnology.
neory, delay in acquiring
technology, know how and
lack of bank support for
working capital. These
maJQr problems should be
overcome maotly by stream-
lining Import prooedureas
providing access to new
tchnology and effective
coordination between SIC.,
State level agencies and
com!Uorcial     Banks. (Para
8.03) .



_ 44 -                  ATTACHMNT I
Page 4 of 9
C0116QUM  Md Arr2arg: Reooveries have shown  signifcant
improvement between JY 82 and WY 86
The sierious problem of       when  the overall collections ,have
collection and arrears has    more   than  doubled  from  Rs.l846
persisted (Para 5 of the      million  to Rsa.4318  million.   The
Highlights).                  compound growth rate of colleotions
at 26% p.a. over FY 82-86 exceeded
The problem of collection     the growth rate of 23% p.a. and 20%
and arrears has persisted     P.a.       for     sanctions     and
threatening the finanoing     disbursements  respectively  during
viability and oredit          the same period.
worthiness of many SFCs
(Para 6.03).                  The total collections as peroontage
of total dues (excluding suit filed
Perhaps more disturbing is    accounts),   have  also   increased
the existence of high         though marginally, from 34% in WY -
percentage of wilful defaul-  85  to  35% in  VY-88.   Similarly,
ters arising from the soft    there  has been an  improvement  in
attitude taken by SFCa in     collection of current dues from 67%
handling their oases (Para    to 70% during this period.
4.02).
The   problem   of   recovery   has
The problem remains with the  persisted    largely   because   of
SsCa' deficient collection    certain   external   factors   like
performance and mounting      infrastructural         bottlenecks,
arrears.  IDDI will have to   partioularly    power      shortage,
take a much more assetive     drought   and   flood   situations,
stance in resolving this      delays      in    getting    certain
long standing problem.        clearances  etc.   Over the last  2
(Para 6.04).                  years,  several SFCs, mostly at the
instance of IDBI, in'tiated various
IDDI's continued support      measureq  to  step up  collootions.
to S870  should be linked to   The two-pronged progr     mentioned
colloction performance as     in  Para  4.21  of  PCE  has  been
measured by. specific. targets. adopted   at  ;tb-istance .of  IDBI.
(Para  .06).                 'In  respect  of  default  ascounts,
*SWOs are holding Regional Executivo
Metings       periodically       for
initiatina remedial action in close
coordination with commercial banks.
Host of the SIC. have constituted
Default Review Committees/Reoovery
cells.
Although, as observed in P(R, it is
premature to asaess the full impact
eflectedl in                        fe  thes  easures,  ?&ov t in
OR, para. 4.21                       -aront in
87 and the performace is likely to
improve   further in  the   coming
years.



4-                       ATTACHMO I
~~ 5    ~~~~~ Page 5 of 9
Reflected in                         Regardin    comeent   on    wilful
PCR, para. 4.02                      defaults and soft attitude of SICa,
and 4.03                             it may be stated that while  there
could  be a few Instances of wilful
defaults, SIOC are taking stern
steps,    including   recourae   to
Section 29 of SIC. Act for take
over of management, outright sale,
Initiating   recovery   proceedings
and,  as  a  last  resort,  filing
suits.    During  the  annual BPRF
exeroisoss  special targets   are
being fixed for recovery in terms
of  absolute  amount  as  well as
percentage of overdues. Collection
performance is closely monitored
through   reviews  and   periodioal
reporta.  IDBI's continued support
Is in fact already linked with the
recovery performance of SFCs, as
acknowledged in FCR (Para 4.05).
Further, the norm presoribed by
Dr. Dave Comittee (to which a
refrenoe has been made in FOR) is
also     being    observed    while
determinina refinance limits.
Reflected   Experiono of londing through This  is  rather a bold  and  very
in PCR,    an apex agency subject to a   unclear observation.  IDBI as an
paras. 6.   system requiring inter-action apex instizution,  is  specifically
and 6.06    wdth Central and State Govts. assigned  the task of coordinating
by means of institutional    the working of institutions engaged
processes outside of its     in   fianing,    promoting   and
~direat contrdl  ay be        developinag industries both at State
inoompatible with sound       and national level. IDBI itself is
banking praotice.             a goverment owned bank  as are
(Para 6 of Highlights and    several developmnt banks in  other
6.06 of Chapter VI).         developing    countries.     As   a
Developent Bank,  it is  concerned
directly  or  indireotly  with  all
problems relating to torm financing
of industries and is expectod to
adopt   and  ensure  a  system   of
prioritie  in womotins  industrial
development.    IDB!  is   having
. otinuous dialoge with All, India
and   Stat,  level   institutions
conoeted with industrial financing
and develoPment,   and  is  having
close inter-action with the Govto.
both Central as well as Stte, In
evaluation of existin Industrial



-   -                    A1TTACHMENM I
Page 6 of 9
policies    and  formulation   of
appropriate new policies to met
the  changing  needs.   It  guides
State  level  Institutions through
periodial         issue          of
guidelines/instructions. Over the
years,   IDBI has  merged  as  aA
effective apex level organisation
in purveying Industrial credit.
iA view of the above, there is no
incompatibility   between  leandin
through such an apex agency and
sound banking policy. But IDBI, by
itself, canot fully resolve some
of  the  issues that mW   arise
between Central and State Govts. in
a federal structure and resolve
Central    and    State    level
perapeotives on any given issue.
&1a  M ualltz ,.          The rapid expansion in londing is an
Discilpliat            outcome of both sharp focus given to
this  soetor and  overall  growth
81Cs were clearly unable to  taking  place  in the  economy. As
sustain internal aoounta-  mentioned  in para 4.01 of PCR, the
bility for loan quality and Central  and  State   Govts.  have
IDBI was unable to effec-    emphasised  the  development of 8SI
tively disoipline these     and baokward areas.  Thus lending to
institutions, Eiven the     these sectors constitutes a national
political priority acoorded  priority and as rightly observed  in
to rapid expdaion it        PCR.  (Para  8 of Highlights),  8FCs
lendine. (Para B of Bigh-.   which    subserve   the    national
lights and  .02 of          objective have accorded due priority
Chapter VI).                to  development of these  sectors
through   liberalisation   of  the
A heavy emphasis on loan    schemes, eto.  In fact, in line with
approvals outweighed the    this  obJective,  the ceiling  of
Reflected    attention to supervision.    mowunt of loan sanotionable by SICs
in PCR,    colloction and arrears.      to  a proJeot has been  raised  from
para P 3.04   The main factor cousin    Rs.3  million  to Rs.8  million  Qnd
FPoortnoteQ   the rapid growth in       definition  of 80I has been widened,
approvals wa that SICs'    by enhanciAg the limit of investmt
managemnt were judgd by   in  plant  and machinery  from  B.2
tho.State government on     million to Rs.3.50 million.
the abfilit to improve
"the inrodasWinbbf ez' bf   "y 'w' meous,  however, 10  are
projets. (Pra 4.01).        absolved   of   their    internal
accountability for loan quality, and
project viability continuos to be
the main criterion for sanction.



ATTACHMENT I
-   -                      Page 7 of 9
In view of the substantial growth In
sanctions already achieved by 81Cm,
IDBI has sinoo laid emphasis on
consolidation In their activities
through stop up of oollections and
disbursements,  with   a view   to
improving   their  liquidity   and
reduoing      the        undisburued
oaoitmits.
While  this has been  a   serious
problem in the past, there has been
The stability and quality    significant   improvement   In  the
of top management needs     quality  of management  in  reeotit
RefleCted   to be retained for offecti- years.   Several States have given a
In PCR,    veness of leadership and    minimum tenure of 3 rears to the INDs
para. 4.10 o oranisation.               of their 51MC.  In fact, MD. of 15
(Para 6 of Highlihts and   51Cm  have had  a term of 2  to  5
Fara 6.06 of Chapter VI).  years. The improvemoet In situation
has been brought about du* to
continued dialogue of ID)I with the
State    Governments   and    the
organizational   and    maaeent
evaluation studies carried out by
indopndent agencies at the instance
of 1DB.
lns:Jtuty,nal  DWads:tL=  The    impact   of    institutional
upgradation   programm   is  already
Despite substantial and     r-eflooted in improved performanooe of
3rstematic efforts on the    SICs.  As has been observed in  PCR
part of 1DB!        t       .Para 4.09 to 4. 1), inWrovemeat hs
In institutional   rab              effected   In   area      of
tion, the impact on the     organisational structure, develop-
improvemet in SvCs'         aot  of  skills,   standards  of
operations/financial        appraisal      and      supervision.
performanoe has been        Improvements have also been brought
generally limited. Th       about in WsCa' business, collections
state Govt.$' power over     ad plouabback as well.
SIC. has severely
undermined IDBI's ability
to fulfil its functions.    The relationship between State Govt.
The State govt. have        and  IDEI  have  ben   generally
constantly been involved    harbmious  and  tbor  has  bee
ULa w's amattes -           -puitIve and constructive  response
*.*. appointmet of MDs      from   State   Govt.   to    IDBI 'I
nd theLr premature trans-  sugestions.    There  have  been
for, ehmpa  on new loan    differences in viw points regarding
aproval rather thn          removal  appointrmet, tnur e of W



48                      ATTACHMENT I
Page 8 of 9
strengthening existing      but  there is lot of improvement in
firms, restriotions on      recent   years.    On  matters   of
staff recruitment to fill   staffing  and  their  compensation,
the vacancies - reflecting   some  SICa have faced problems, but
differet perceptions,       within the overall oonstraint of pay
priorities and expediency    structure  among   State  employees,
regarding role of SIC.      State  Goverments have tried to  be
(Para 4.22).                mnore cooperative.
The    SYCs   have   also    adopted
professional  approach   in  their
operations.
lQ:g5d Credit D21y-trz    Over the period Fn  77-86, the loan
Q.Xt ta ml        assistance  of over Rs.30  billion
has  been channelled through  SIC.
Considering the long time    to  81I,  yielding  an   annual
period and nine of finan-   compound  growth  rate of  20X In
cial resouroes  involved    matters   of  rooovery,   arrears
what SICs as a whole had    position  etc.  also  SFC.  have
aooomplished by the          shown improvement.   In fa tt, the
completion of this proJect   contribution  of SIC.  has  been
was far less than expected   adequately  refleoted  in  their
outoome i.e. Sound Credit   operations   as  highligbted   in
Delivery System to SMI-     paragraph 4.01 of PCR itself.
(Para 6.03).
G2oxd1ns11n b05timen      As mentioned in PCR itself, there
=On    hah Aukhas been notioeable improvement in
ooordinatiou among SIC., commercial
Close coordination between   banks   and   other  State  level
- MO. and Corcial            agenoies,    but  it  needs  to
needs to b  enoouraed. All be improved further. Besides, ID!B
SFCs need further eonoura-  has been constantly promoting close
-se_mt- U  M.& w stabL                                   wious
a    t to estalish-- S irm   coordination  avmngvaiu
*link and effective co-      institutions  to improve the Crdit
ordination betwee term      Delivery  System  (vide  paragraph
lending by SIC. and         4.14).
working oapital availa-
bility from the commer-      The need for further refinement in
oial Banks.                 the system is already eonaging the
serious attention of IDBI and RBI.
Further until SIC. can      RBI has issued fresh guidelines to
achieve oollections that    oommercial banks in  this  regard
indicate sound banking      and    IDEI,        too,    issued
pzwtioe, comoerial- Banks  - complementary   instructions   to,
i11l be jPatified -i their  S8CsA. .-.All the asences
'kWp1ao1um towards SICa     are  thus  already    addressing
Operations. Consideration  themselves to this  Issue.  The
should be given to          matter  is  being  discussed   at
linking continuation of     different forums including annual



ATTACHM1NT I
49-                       Page 9 of 9
commercial Banks lendint     conferences   of    state    level
to repayment of SIM          inatitutions in search of enduring
loans (Para 6.03).           solution.  Nominee  directors  of
both   RBI  and  IDDI   are   also
monitoring the progress in this
direction. Attmpts have been made
In the past to make the banks an
effootive instrument of oollection
of dueg.  But the suggestion will
be  given  serious  thought   once
again.



