Report No. 1158-IN                                            FIL         CA hpy
Appraisal of a Proposed Loan to   FILE CUOY
India for a Second Line of Credit to the
Industrial Development Bank of India for the
State Financial Corporations
May 6, 1976
Agriculture Credit & Development Finance Companies Division
South Asia Projects
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Dpcument of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
ont', in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             =    Rs 8.0 *
Rs 1                -    US$0.125
Rs 10 million       -    US$125,000
Rs 1.0 billion      -    US$125 million
Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate.  Since then it has been fixed against a 'basket'
of currencies.  As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.00, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal.
FISCAL YEARS
GOI, SFCs:                          April 1 - March 31
RBI, IDBI:                          July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ACRONYMS
APSFC          -    Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation
AFC            -   Assam Financial Corporation
BITCO          -    Bihar Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization
BSFC           -    Bihar State Financial Corporation
CGAC           -    Capital Goods Adhoc Committee
DCSSI          -    Development Commissioner of Small Scale Industry
DFC            -    Delhi Financial Corporation
DGTD           -    Directorate General of Technical Development
GNP            -    Gross National Product
GOI            -    Government of India
GSFC           -    Gujarat State Financial Corporation
HFC            -   Haryana Financial Corporation
HPFC           -   Himachal Pradesh Financial Corporation
HSC            -    Hindustan Steel Corporation
ICICI          -    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI           -    Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI           -    Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IFD            -    Industrial Finance Department (of RBI)
IIG            -    Inter-Institutional Group
IRCI           -    Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India
J&KSFC         -    Jammu & Kashmir State Financial Corporation
KFC            -   Kerala Financial Corporation
KSFC           -   Karnataka State Financial Corporation
KITCO          -   Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization
LIC            -    Life Insurance Corporation
LRS            -    Liberalized Refinanced Scheme
MPFC           -    Madhya Pradesh Financial Corporation
MSFC           -    Maharashtra State Financial Corporation
MMTC           -   Metals & Minerals Trade Corporation
NCAER          -   National Council of Applied Economic Research
NEITCO         -   North Eastern Industrial & Technical Consultancy Organization
NSIC           -   National Small Industries Corporation
OSFC           -    Orissa State Financial Corporation
PFC            -   Punjab Financial Corporation
RBI            -    Reserve Bank of India
RFC            -    Rajasthan Financial Corporation
SBI            -    State Bank of India
SFC            -    State Financial Corporation
SI           -    Small Industries Service Institute
SSI            -    Small Scale Industries
SSIC           -    Small Scale Industries Corporation
SSIDC          -    State Small Industries Development Corporations
SSIDO          -    Small Scale Industrial Development Organization
STC            -    State Trading Corporation
SIDA           -    Swedish International Development Agency
TIIC           -    Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation
UPFC           -    Uttar Pradesh Financial Corporation
UTI            -    Unit Trust of India
WBFC           -   West Bengal Financial Corporation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND LINE OF CREDIT TO THE INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA FOR THE STATE FINANCIAL
CORPORATIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Main Report
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................  i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................                 1
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ................................                 1
Historical Performance ..... .............                      1
Industrial Policy ...............................               2
Recent Performance ..... ...............                        3
Recent Changes in Policy and Procedures .........               4
The Role of the Small and Medium Scale Sectors                  5
The Financing of Small and Medium Scale
Industries .................................              6
III.    INSTITUTIONAL FRAMFWORK ..............................                8
Organization ....................................               8
Utilization of IDA Credit .......................              11
Characteristics of IDA Financing ....           ............   12
SFC Inspections .................................              12
Credit Guarantee Scheme .........................              13
IV.   THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS ......... .. ..........              14
The Role of the SFCs ............ ..         ..............    14
SFC Upgrading Program ............      ..    .............    16
Summary Evaluation of SFC Operations ............              16
Resource Mobilization ...........................              19
Policies and Procedures ........... ..          ............   20
Resource Allocation .............      ..    ..............    22
Characteristics of Portfolio ........ .. ..........            23
Financial Performance ............      ..    .............    24
Relations with State Governments ........ ........             27
Reporting Requirements ........... ..         .............    27
Prospects            .......................................   28
The report is based on an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. M. Rowat,
E. Elejalde, N. Fostvedt and E. Njomo that visited India in May/June 1975.



Page No.
V.   OBJECTIVES OF THE CREDIT .........................   29
VI.   THE PROPOSED LENDING SCHEME ......... .............  29
Volume I             -    INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA*
Volumes II and III  -    ASSESSMENT OF INDIVIDUAL SFCS*
*Volume I contains an assessment of the present position, prospects, and
role in the economy of the Industrial Development Bank of India to complement
the analysis of its refinance activit:Les presented in this main report. It
also analyzes the institutional framework for industrial financing in India.
Volumes II and III evaluate separately each of the 18 State Financial Corpora-
tions and contain specific recommendations for improving their activities.
All the issues that are relevant to the proposed credit are discussed in
this main report. Therefore, Volumes I to III will be made available only
on request.



ANNEXES
1.   State-wise position of Term Loans (including installment
credits) granted by scheduled commercial banks to small
scale industries
2.   IDBI - Organization Chart
3.   Summary Statement showing progress in the utilization of
IDA Credit as on February 29, 1976
4.   Classification of Refinance Assistance sanctioned by Size
and Industry under the IDA Line of Credit as of June 30,
1975
5.   SFC-wise break-up of applications received/sanctioned/withdrawn
rejected and closed/pending under IDA Credit as on
February 29, 1976
6.   SFC-wise break-up of assistance disbursed by SFCs under IDA
Credit upto February 29, 1976
7.   IDA Credit - Proposals cleared by CGAC upto meeting
held on February 29, 1976
8.   SFCs - Financial and Economic Data on a Sample of IDBI Subprojects
9.   Position of claim applications (Credit Guarantee Scheme) from
State Financial Corporations as of June 30, 1975
10.   Summarized list of main shareholders for all SFCs as of
March 31, 1975
11.   Summary of SFCs Staffing Pattern as of December 31, 1974
12.   Summary of Financial Resources as of March 31, 1975
13.   Summary of Operations FY73-FY75
14.   SFC Loans sanctioned by size of unit and by State (FY75)
15.   Analysis of Arrears to SFCs as of March 31, 1975
16.   Summary of SFC's Comparative Operational Ratios, FY73-FY75
17.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan.






INDIA
APPRAISAL FOR A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA FOR A SECOND LINE
OF CREDIT TO THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA FOR
THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        GOI has placed considerable emphasis on the promotion of small
scale industry (SSI) since the mid-1950's as a means of increasing employment
particularly amongst new entrepreneurs, income distribution and regional dev-
elopment. This has included the provision of substantial incentives such as
lower interest rates and margin on loans, a list of 124 industries reserved
exclusively for SSI, and a generous credit guarantee scheme. The SSI sub-
sector was the subject of a Bank Study in 1971 though much of the data col-
lected was considered unreliable. GOI is presently completing a new census
on SSI which should be available in the middle of 1976. This should form
the basis for a study which GOI will carry out to determine the financial and
economic efficiency of selected industrial subsectors reserved for SSI in
relation to the level of Government incentives.
ii.       GOI's initial instruments for financing the small scale industrial
sector defined as investment in plant and machinery of less than Rs 1
million) were the State Financial Corporations (SFCs), most of which were
established in the late 1950s to provide financing to the small scale as well
as the lower portion of the medium scale sector. During the 1960s, the commer-
cial banks also became actively involved in financing SSI primarily through
working capital loans. Nevertheless, term lending by commercial banks was
only 75% that of the SFCs in 1974.
iii.      Until 1973, Bank Group financing of industrial investment has
consisted of medium and large scale units either through direct financing
or through the financing of the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India (ICICI). However, in view of the importance of SSI, a new project
was developed to reach this industrial sub-sector for the first time. Speci-
fically, an IDA Credit of $25 million was channelled through the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI) to 18 SFCs for relending to small and small-
medium scale industry. A second and equally important objective of the Credit
was to upgrade SFCs through specific institution-building programs. This
report appraises a repeat project involving a $40 million proposed Bank loan.
The objectives of this Loan are (i) to expand financial assistance to the
small and medium scale industrial sectors and (ii) to contribute to the on-
going institutional upgrading of the SFCs.
iv.       IDBI is the largest industrial development bank in India and is
GOI's instrument as the apex institution for all other financial intermedi-
aries. Aside from its many other activities, IDBI provides refinance



- ii -
facilities to SFCs as well as other financial institutions. Under the
existing Credit, IDA finances the estimated average foreign exchange content
(60%) of SFC loans refinanced by IDB[. As of April 21, 1976, slightly less
than $23 million had been authorized for some 400 subprojects, and $6.1 mil-
lion disbursed.
v.        SFCs are responsible for providing medium and long term finance,
underwriting facilities and guarantees to small and medium scale industrial
units, and had total outstandings of Rs 2.8 billion as of March 31, 1975.
At the time of the first Credit, SFCs suffered from a number of weaknesses,
including shortcomings in the qualityr of management and staff, inadequate
procedures and appraisal standards, high arrears and inadequate provisions
for possible losses. In order to provide for improvements, specific up-
grading programs were developed by I)BI, and the Industrial Finance Depart-
ment (IFD) of RBI which until recently was responsible for the inspection
of SFCs. These were agreed with IDA during negotiations in 1972. Since
then, considerable progress has been made, particularly in management,
general operational procedures, and appraisal standards. However, other
areas such as the quality of portfoliLo have shown little improvement largely
due to the general economic downturn in 1974.
vi.       In addition, over the past two years the upgrading programs them-
selves have been found to be insufficiently detailed and not broad enough
in scope. Accordingly, revised upgrading programs were prepared by IDBI/IFD
in March/April 1975 based on recommenidations by IDA. These programs, along
with the debt service coverage limitation (para 4.35) will form the basis
for an agreement between IDBI and each SFC to enable the latter to be eligi-
ble for withdrawal under the proposed loan. In addition, the Bank has
spelled out a number of recommendations tailored to the needs of each SFC.
These recommendations will not form a part of the upgrading program per se,
but IDBI and the SFCs will implement the recommendations to the maximum extent
feasible and IDBI will include a revi.ew of them in its annual reports to the
Bank on the SFCs. On February 16, 1976, the ownership of IDBI passed from
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by GOI. With this change, most of IFD's
activities have been transferred to I:DBI, and this should provide a more
effective means to monitor the performance of SFCs. IDBI is in the process
of reorganizing and decentralizing its operations. This should improve its
capability to fulfill its functions in an effective way.
vii.      The proposed Bank loan of $;40 million is expected to meet the
estimated foreign exchange requirements of the SFCs for the two-year period
beginning July 1, 1976, the date by which the first Credit was expected to
be fully committed. As of April ?1, 1q76, there was slightly more than US$2
million left uncommitted. The proposed project would be similar to the
present Credit except that it is recommended that (a) the free limit be
increased to Rs 2.5 million for selected SFCs where IDA has authorized at
least two projects above the present free limit of Rs 1 million and (b) in



- ili -
the case of loans to SSI, technician entrepreneurs and for projects in back-
ward areas, the proceeds of the loan would be onlent by IDBI to the SFCs
at 8.0%, and relent to SFC borrowers at not less than 11.5%. In the case
of all other lending, the corresponding rates would be 8.75% and not less
than 12.0%. GOI would onlend the Bank loan to IDBI on terms satisfactory
to the Bank which are proposed at 7.75% (excluding 0.25% rebate for prompt
payment) for all types of lending.






INDIA
APPRAISAL FOR A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA FOR A SECOND LINE
OF CREDIT TO THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA FOR
THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), which is fully
owned by the Government of India (GOI) 1/ has requested through GOI a loan
for a second line of credit to be relent to 18 State Financial Corporations
(SFCs) for refinancing the estimated foreign exchange content of SFC loans
for small and medium scale industry. The loan would also assist in the
continuous upgrading programs of individual SFCs. As of April 21, 1976,
slightly less than US$23 million of the initial $25 million (Credit 356-IN)
had been authorized by IDA for some 400 subprojects and $6.1 million dis-
bursed. It is expected that the balance will be authorized by May/June 1976,
and that by June 1976 disbursements of approximately $7 million will have
taken place. 2/ Consequently, a second project of $40 million to meet the
estimated foreign exchange content of SFC loans for the two-year period
beginning July 1, 1976 is recommended. Such a loan would be consistent
with GOI1's obJectives of promoting the small and medium-scale industrial
sectors and at the same time, would continue to support the institution-
building efforts within SFCs presently being undertaken by IDBI.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
2.01      An assessment of India's present economic position is contained in
the Bank's latest Economic Report No. 1073-IN dated March 29, 1976. In
addition, an evaluation of the overall framework for industrial financing
is contained in Volume I to this report.
Historical Performance
2.02      India's industrial output has grown on average by little more than
3% per annum since 1965, which is almost the same growth as that of NNP.
Both demand and supply factors have constrained the sector's expansion. Of
the four possible engines of growth on the side of demand, namely exports,
import substitution, derived demand from the growth of other major sectors,
1/   Previously, IDBI was a wholly owned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI), but ownership was transferred to GOI as a result of the
implementation of the Public Financial Institutions Law (Amendment) Act
on February 16, 1976 hereafter referred to as the IDBI Act.
2/   The final date for acceptance of subproject applications was extended
from June 30, 1975 to March 31, 1976.



and government investment, all have been weak. Import substitution, where
reasonably simple, was virtually compllete by the middle 60s; exports have
never been a major factor, accounting even now for only 10% of the output
of engineering goods, for example; the relatively slow growth trend of agri-
culture of little more than 2% has restricted growth in demand for consumer
goods; and, finally, government real investment has remained stagnant.
Industrial growth has also been periodically constrained by transport
bottlenecks, and by shortages of power, which was especially severe in
1973 and 1974, and of raw materials siuch as steel, other metals, and agri-
cultural inputs like cotton. Since these raw materials are tradeable goods,
the latter shortages are merely a specific manifestation of the scarcity of
foreign exchange.
2.03      The Government dominates production in steel, heavy plant and
machinery, mining, power generation, and increasingly in aluminum, ferro-
alloys, machine tools, fertilizers, and other "basic" industries. Con-
sequently according to the 1970 Annual Survey of Industry, the public sector
accounted for 60% of productive capacity. However, it generated only 22Z
of value added. This relationship cannot be explained solely by the capital
intensity of these industries, but is also the result of low capacity
utilization - itself partly caused by poor management. However, low capa-
city utilization has also been a problem in the private sector, mainly as
a result of supply shortages and to a certain extent from lack of demand
especially for capital goods.
2.04      There have been slow shifts in the structure of industrial pro-
duction, in accordance with the aims of industrial strategy. In 1960, 40%
of output was of textiles and processed foods. This had fallen to 25% by
1970. Instead "basic industries", engineering goods and chemicals, had
risen to 40%. However, since 1965 the structural change has been quite
slow, and there has even been a decline in the share of capital goods in
industrial production.
Industrial Policy
2.05      The Government has placed central emphasis on rapid industrializa-
tion as the key to development. Its goals in industrial policy have also
included both greater equality and national self-sufficiency. The aim of
inhibiting concentration of economic lpower has been approached through ex-
panded public ownership, restrictions on the growth of "large houses" and
"dominant undertakings"; reservation of many products to the small-scale
sector as well as special assistance to it; and, finally, support for
development in backward regions. The aim of self-sufficiency has largely
manifested itself in the relentless pursuit of import substitution, as well
as curtailment of foreign owned firms and other forms of foreign involve-
ment in industry.
2.06      The last decade must be regarded as a disappointment, as far as
the achievement of the key aim of rapiLd growth is concerned. While there
has been some progress towards the other goals, it is far from evident



- 3 -
that, in a wider context, such progress should be regarded as conducive
to production. Import substitution was clearly a major and successful spur
to growth up until the middle 1960s, but since then the high cost inefficient
industries that have been created have acted as a major impediment to ex-
pansion of exports. Since the latter offers one of the few means of
accelerating growth, this is a significant cost. The emphasis on indepen-
dence from outside technology, when combined with the fragmentation of
industry and consequent limitations on domestic product development, has
frequently resulted in the production of outmoded industrial goods. Al-
though such goods may often not be inappropriate for Indian circumstances,
they are difficult to export. The control of large houses and the encourage-
ment of the small-scale sector has had effects on income distribution which
are simply unknown.
2.07      The main instruments of industrial policy have been central
licensing of investment and imports, as well as physical allocation of
"scarce" domestically produced raw materials, and controls on industrial
prices. This system has itself tended to conflict with other aims,
especially that of curbs on economic concentration since large firms are
much better able to bear the overhead costs of dealing with a centralized
bureaucracy. Controls have also restricted the ability of firms to respond
to changed opportunities, especially in overseas markets, and thus hampered
exports. The extent of excess capacity indicates that the planning supposed
to underlie the industrial licensing system has been far from fully success-
ful. Finally, price controls appear to have had a harmful effect on invest-
ment and modernization in such crucial industries as cotton textiles, sugar,
and cement.
Recent Performance
2.08      In 1973/74 industry grew by 1%, and in 1974/75 growth was 2.5%.
Through these years, the major effective constraint appears to have been
that of raw material supply.  However, the situation changed rather dramatic-
ally during 1975 and demand is currently the more serious problem.  The
improvement in supply of inputs has been partly the result of large increases
in the output of key public industries, especially steel and coal.  Steel
ouput rose from 4.5 million tons in 1973/74 to 4.9 million tons in 1974/75
and is expected to rise by a further 1 million tons in1975/76. After years
of stagnation, coal output rose by 13.5% in 1974/75, or by about 10 million
tons, and is expected to rise by a further 10 million tons in 1975/76. (This
improvement in performance has, in fact, been a feature of quite a large
number of public sector enterprises). The rise in production of coal combined
with good rains has led to increases in power generation which are expected
to be of the order of 20% in 1975/76. Finally, increased aid disbursements
as well as improved export performance have been the main factors in reducing
the foreign exchange constraint, as perceived by the Government and have
allowed a marked liberalization of import controls.



2.09      Thus, major constraints on supply have been reduced or removed,
while 1975/76 is clearly going to be a record year for agricultural pro-
duction. Industrial growth for 1975/76 should reach 4 to 5%. While a
major expansion of intermediate output has occurred, there has been a fall
in the domestic demand for many industrial goods. However, this conjunction
has at least had a positive effect on. exports, especially of steel, which
will be about one million tons.  Weak domestic demand has been partly the
result of a tight credit policy motivated by the overwhelming desire to curb
inflation. Commercial credit during the first part of 1975/76 grew by only
2%. In addition, the very success of counter-inflationary policy has in-
creased enormously the real cost of holding inventories and this, in combina-
tion with action against "smugglers, hoarders, and black-marketeers", appears
to have led to a marked fall in holding of stocks. At the same time, there
has been a lag between increased agricultural income and a rise in consumer
demand. Export demand has been weak and in some sectors, such as jute and
cotton textiles, disastrously so. Finally, increased real public sector
development expenditures have not yet significantly affected the capital
goods sector, and private investment demand continues to be in the doldrums.
However, in 1976/77 increased consumer demand, required by tax reductions in
the budget, and increased public development expenditure, combined with the
easy availability of raw materials could lead to accelerated growth.
Recent Changes in Policy and Procedures
2.10      In the face of poor industrial performance and much underutilized
or inefficiently utilized capacity, the Government has been reconsidering
parts of its strategy. It is increasingly acknowledged that existing capa-
city must be utilized more efficiently; that public sector enterprises
should be expected to meet more commetrcially oriented criteria for output,
price, and profitability; and that with the slow growth of the domestic
economy, industry can only expand at a reasonable rate through exporting.
2.11      The process of revising policy has been taking place for some
time, but the first discernible signs; emerged in 1972. Subsequently, the
Government has introduced measures to simplify procedures and to introduce
more flexibility. By now, licensing of new capacity and of expansion for
exports is freely available; in the case of enterprises belonging to large
industrial houses and foreign majority companies, export obligations are
set. For the domestic market, licenses are also freely available, except
for industries reserved for the small scale sector, and except for the
large industrial houses and foreign miajority companies which are confined
to a priority list of industries, which has, in fact, been fairly broadly
defined. Processing time for license!s has been very much reduced so that
the obstacle posed by licensing procedures has been virtually eliminated
for all except the large houses and foreign majority companies, and even
for them there are fewer hurdles. By the beginning of 1975, price control
had been lifted from all finished manufactures. Certain intermediate
products are still subject to formal price controls largely as a result
of the fact that the Government is the main producer. Distribution control
on industrial materials has been lifted for almost all items.



- 5 -
2.12      These various changes mark a significant effort on the part of
Government, but the major structural problems of the sector remain. In
summary form, these are that many public sector undertakings still have a
long way to go before they become efficient producers. The private sector
will be the main source of exports. Thus, structural changes to improve
competitiveness will be vital. These may require adjustment in policies
that lead to industrial fragmentation and inadequate expansion of efficient
firms. The dilemma before the Government is to formulate this strategy in
a way that is still consistent with its social goals.
The Role of the Small and Medium Scale Sectors
2.13      GOI has placed considerable emphasis on promoting both of these
sectors, particularly the small scale sector 1/, to increase employment 2/,
income distribution, and regional development.
2.14      The small-scale industrial sector (SSI) in India was the subject
of a Bank study in 1971 in cooperation with the Swedish International Develop-
ment Authority (SIDA) and the National Council of Applied Economic Research
(NCAER) of India. Report No. SA-33a entitled "Small Scale Industry in India"
dated May 22, 1972 summarized their findings. This report described the
industrial sector (SSI), its present source of financing, made an assessment
of its economic importance in relation to the total industrial sector and
attempted to evaluate the policy framework for SSI. Most of the data per-
taining to SSI are based on the Annual Survey of Industry (1970) which is
now considered to be unreliable. However, GOI is presently conducting a
census of the small-scale sector, the results of which should be available
in the middle of 1976.
2.15      This is of critical importance since there is insufficient informa-
tion available at present on the size, structure, growth and economic effi-
ciency of SSI in order to evaluate in a meaningful way GOI's policies in this
subsector. Specifically, SSI units have been granted a variety of incentives
including lower rates of interest and security margin on loans, government
procurement of SSI output at favorable prices, simplified licensing pro-
cedures, and the availability of a Credit Guarantee Scheme (para 3.20-3.22).
In addition, GOI has reserved a list of 124 manufactured items exclusively
for SSI. It is possible that GOI's overall incentive scheme has perhaps been
over-generous. To explore this question further, GOI will complete within
a year a study of the financial and economic efficiency of SSI in selected
subsectors in relation to the level of incentives SSI presently receives.
GOI has also launched a "Program of Modernization for Selected Small Scale
Industries" with the objective of improving the productivity of small scale
1/   In June 1975, GOI amended its definition of SSI to include units with
investment in plant and machinery of less than Rs 1 million (excluding
cottage industries) and Rs 1.5 million for ancillaries. The "old"
definitions of Rs 750,000 and Rs 1 million respectively are used in
the statistical references throughout the report.
2/   It is estimated that SSI employes about 4 million people.



- 6 -
enterprises (including quality improvement and cost reductions) to contri-
bute to a better export performance. The total cost of the program would be
Rs 4.9 billion over 5 years to finance the purchase of equipment, raw
materials and technical assistance.  This would also be more effectively
evaluated once the new census is available.
2.16      Investment, however, cannot and should not come to a standstill
while studies are conducted to assess and evaluate the impact of Government
policies. To the extent that there are questions and doubts about policies,
however, it is all the more important to ensure that new investments are
directed to activities which are economically sound and financially viable.
The experience under the first IDBI/SFC project has demonstrated that such
projects exist in the small and mediumn scale sector and that properly
strengthened State Financial Croporations (SFCs) can be instrumental in
identifying and appraising these projects. Ultimately, of course, the ex-
perience of the SFCs (their successes as well as their failures) will pro-
vide valuable data by which to assess the effectiveness of the policy frame-
work. Indeed, the study referred to (para 2.15) should make considerable
use of the data already accumulated by the SFCs.
The Financing of Small and Medium Scale Industries
2.17      State Level Institutions.  The financing of small-scale and the
smaller end of medium-scale industry has largely been undertaken by State-
level institutions and the commercial banks 1/. The State Financial Corpora-
tions (SFCs) have been the most important sources of term loans over the
years, having accounted for Rs 2.8 billion in outstanding as of March 31,
1975 2/. Moreover, the Small Scale Iridustrial Corporations (SSICs) also
provide a modest amount of financial aLssistance through hire purchase
finance. Hire purchase finance for bcoth imported and domestic equipment
is also provided by the National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) on an
all-India basis, and amounted to Rs 47.2 million in FY75.
2.18      Commercial Banks. Historically, commercial banks in India have
played an important role in financing industry, both medium- and large-
scale as well as small-scale. Since 1969, when 14 commercial banks were
nationalized, lending by commercial baLnks has become a more direct instru-
ment of Government industrial policy (though this emphasis had already
begun several years before nationalization) in that priority has been given
to financing the small-scale sector, and also to establishing a sufficient
branch network to cater to this group. At the same time, outstanding credit
to the small-scale sector increased from Rs 2.9 billion in June 1969 to
Rs 7.5 billion as of September 1973. The proportion of total bank lending
to small industries increased from 7.9% in June 1969 to 11.9% in September
1973. In the case of branch development, commercial banks had 8,632 branches
in 1969, and in the past five years the number has doubled to 16,936.
1/   The all-India financial intermediaries (para 2.20) also finance medium
scale industry but have tended to finance only those projects that
are beyond the limit of the SFCs (paras 3.05 and 6.04).
2/   A detailed discussion of the SFCs is contained in Chapter 4.



2.19      The commercial banks have also become active in term lending.  As
of June 1974, the scheduled commercial banks had Rs 1.6 billion in term
loans outstanding to the small-scale sector, which is about one-half the
Rs 2.8 billion in total outstanding financial assistance by the SFCs at
March 31, 1975 (Annex 1). The former represented loans to about 45,000
small-scale enterprises. The rate of interest charged by commercial banks
has gradually increased over the past few years, ranging between 12.5% and
15% in FY75, the lower rate representing the minimum that can be charged
except for some specific priority sectors. Penalty fees in some cases
were as high as 4%. For term loans, maturities were generally up to seven
years. The higher interest rates stem from GOI's policy of credit restraint,
which has forced commercial banks to make more active use of IDBI's refinance
facilities (para 3.09).
2.20      Given the perhaps excessive number of financial intermediaries,
there is considerable need in most states for improved coordination amongst
state-level institutions involved in small and medium scale assistance
including SFCs, SSICs, commercial banks, SIDCs 1/, SISIs, as well as with
the all-India financial intermediaries including ICICI, 2/ IDBI, IFCI, 3/
LIC 4/, UTI, 5/ and NSIC. GOI and IDBI intenid as a first step to revive Inter-
Institutional Group (IIG) meetings (in those states where they are dormant).
Secondly, mechanisms for coordination at the small-scale level will be
adopted, including cross-representation on Boards of Directors and periodic
meetings to review joint financing proposals and clients in arrears, when
this is not already being done.
2.22      Technical Assistance.  SSI technical assistance is available from
a variety of sources. A Ford Foundation recommendation in 1954 led to the
establishment of a GOI project authority for SSI which came to be known as
SSIDO 6/, headed by a Development Commissioner for Small-Scale Industry
(DCSSI). This institution was designed to coordinate the development of
SSI through promotional work, training, publicity and export promotion,
though the institution has never had more than an advisory role. SSIDO is
represented at the State level by 16 Small Industries Service Institutes
(SISI), as well as by the State Director of Industries, the former providing
technical and economic assistance to entrepreneurs. In a few States, the
quality of work appears to be reasonably good, though by and large the SISI
units including their branches and extension centers need improvement. This
should be accomplished in conjunction with the Modernization Program (para
2.15). Commercial banks have also begun to become active in technical
assistance of a managerial nature which has been pioneered by the First
National City Bank and the State Bank of India. Finally, the SFC's pro-
vide a modest amount of technical assistance as part of their routine
follow-up work.
1/   State Industrial Development Corporation.
2/   Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India.
3/   Industrial Finance Corporation of India.
4/   Life Insurance Corporation.
5/   Unit Trust of India.
6/   Small Scale Industrial Development Organization.



- 8 --
III. INSTITUTIONA]. FRAMEWORK
Organization
3.01      Prior to the implementation of the revised IDBI Act in February
1976, the institutional mechanism for providing assistance to the small and
riedium-scale sectors involved the RefiLnance Department of IDBI, 1/ the
Industrial Finance Department (IFD) of- RBI, and the SFCs themselves. In
summary, the Refinance Department was responsible for the full processing
of all SFC loan applications, while IFD was responsible for the inspection
of SFCs through periodic visits, for iinstitution building and for operation
of the Credit Guarantee Scheme (paras 3.20-3.22).
3.02      At the time of the first project the plan was to create three
divisions wThin the Refinance Department in the Bombay Office (Appraisal,
Operations, and Follow-up). However, up to the time of the implementation of
the IDBI Act, IDBI had created only an IDA cell to handle those applications
falling under the IDA Credit, while no other reorganization had taken place
based on the uncertainty of the then pending IDBI Bill. IFD's reorganization
was likewise postponed.
3.03      As a result of the implementation of the IDBI Act, the functions
of IFD, except for the operation of the Credit Guarantee Scheme, have been
transferred from RBI to IDBI. At the same time, IDBI has been reorganized.
The new organization chart is shown in Annex 2. There are now three depart-
ments of special importance for the SFCs.
(a) The SFC Department, covering the SFCs and other State level
agencies, which will be responsible for policy questions
and inspections;
(b) The Refinance Department, covering domestic refinance
projects;
(c) The Import Loans Department, covering, inter alia, all
refinance in foreign currency, including the Bank/IDA projects.
In addition, IDBI has decentralized iits operations to a considerable extent.
For refinance cases, the regional offLces have now been delegated authority
up to Rs 3 million, compared to Rs 300,000 2/ previously. Since, under the
SFC Act, the SFCs cannot sanction loans of more than Rs 3 million, all re-
finance cases will be decided in the regional offices, which should greatly
assist the implementation of this project.
1/   A detailed discussion of the IDBI is contained in Volume I.  This volume
reflects the position prior to the implementation of the revised IDBI
Act. A report, discussing the present status of the IDBI, is under
preparation in connection with the proposed Credit to IDBI for its
direct lending operations.
2/   The Deputy General Manager at the New Delhi regional office had
sanctioning powers up to Rs 500,000.



- 9 -
3.04      IDBI refinances loans with a minimum maturity of 3 years (since
amended, para 3.10, footnote 1) granted to industrial concerns by SFCs, com-
mercial banks, cooperative banks and any other notified institutions.
Historically, SFCs have been the largest users of the facility, though com-
mercial banks have had to make more use of it recently on account of the
credit squeeze. It is anticipated that once the credit squeeze has eased,
the commercial banks will, by and large, revert back to using their own
funds to finance industrial investment.
3.05      Policies.  IDBI's policies on refinance are as follows:
(a)  The extent to which it refinances a single financial
institution is normally limited to three times the
institution's equity.
(b) All types of industrial enterprises are eligible.
However, primary consideration is given to private
sector enterprises with a net worth of less than
Rs 25 million.
(c) The purpose of the loan to be refinanced is normally
limited to the acquisition of fixed assets, but a
portion of the loan may also be for working capital
required on a term basis.
(d) The minimum size of loans to be refinanced is Rs 0.2
million in normal cases, Rs 20,000 for loans to small
road transport operators, and Rs 10,000 for loans to
small-scale enterprises guaranteed under the Credit
Guarantee Scheme.
(e)  It normally refinances up to 80% of the original loan
amount but the coverage can go up to 100% for small-
scale enterprises and projects in backward areas.
(f) The credit risk is fully assumed by the financial
institution which directly lends to the industrial
enterprise.
3.06      Staff. Over the past two years, the professional staff in the old
Refinance Department (excluding Regional Offices) had increased from 29 to 39.
However, it was still understaffed, not only in terms of original expectations,
but also because of the enormous increase in applications in the past year
due to the credit squeeze (para 3.09). Thus, it was considered essential
that IDBI increased the staff doing refinance work to handle the increased
workload. The implications in terms of staffing requirements of IDBI's
reorganization are not yet clear. However, the decentralization should
reduce significantly the burden on the Bombay office, whereas the need for
staff in the regional offices has increased (para 3.07).



- 10 -.
3.07      Regional Offices.  IDBI has three regional offices, plus the Bombay
Office. Now, a new regional office in Ahmedabad, to cover the country's
Western Region will be established. These offices are responsible for ongoing
contact with SFCs in their respective regions. Included in this are the
receipt, processing, ratification and follow-up action on all applications
for refinance. Previously, regional managers had sanctioning powers on appli-
cations up to Rs 300,000 (New Delhi Rs 500,000), while all other applications
were forwarded to Head Office.  Now, all sanctions except in special cases
will be decided in the regional offices. In 1976 IDBI introduced a liberalized
refinance scheme (LRS), which enabled It to grant on a near automatic basis
refinance of loans up to Rs 200,000 to SSI units covered under the Credit
Guarantee Scheme and to small road transport operators. This was extended to
commercial banks on February 1, 1975.
3.08      Before the reorganization, the number of staff devoted to refinance
activities at the regional offices appeared to be grossly inadequate, and
had led to a large backlog in the processing of applications (para 3.09).
The New Delhi, Calcutta, and Madras Offices had only two staff each devoted
to the processing of refinance cases. The reorganization will lead to an
even greater need for additional staff in the regional offices. IDBI has
confirmed that these offices will be strengthened with more technical and
financial officers, as well as with other supporting staff. This will be
done gradually on the basis of the work load. An export credit cell, hand-
ling, inter alia, Bank/IDA refinance cases, will be set up immediately in
all regional offices. There will be at least two officers in each regional
office handling Bank/IDA cases which appears sufficient.
3.09      Refinance Operational Results.  8,870 applications under the
refinance scheme were received in FY75, or more than double the level
in FY74 (4,353). 1/ Thus, total sanctions increased from Rs 419 million
(2,665) in FY74 to Rs 1.1 billion (6,390) in FY75. Disbursements increased
from Rs 277 million to Rs 524 million. This substantial growth placed
an usually heavy burden on the staff. During FY75, 1,481 applications
were either rejected or withdrawn compared to 1,144 in FY74. At the end
of March 1975, there were 1,802 refinance applications pending with IDBI
(including Regional Offices) compared to 778 at the same time the previous
year. The only region to show an absolute improvement in processing was
the New Delhi Office where the Deputy General Manager had the highest
sanctioning power and had also attempted to streamline processing procedures.
1/   SFCs accounted for 73% of such assistance in FY75 with the balance
represented by commercial banks, t;he latter the result of the credit
squeeze.



- 1 1 -
Utilization of IDA Credit
3.10      Procedural Reform.  GOI procedures for clearance of the importation
of capital equipment under the IDA Credit were considerably improved and
liberalized in 1972/73. Their main aspects are: 1/
(a) Irrespective of the size of the loan or the value
of imports, all proposals are now considered by the
Capital Goods Ad Hoc Committee (CGAC) which meets
every week;
(b) Applications involving imports of small value (Rs 0.75
million or less) bypass the advertising procedure
which was previously required to certify domestic non-
availability of the machinery;
(c) The SFC concerned is now entitled to issue the
"essentiality certificate" 2/ for the proposed machinery
in lieu of the State Government; and
(d) IDBI's New Delhi Office is assigned the secretarial
work for the CGAC, preparing a summary for each
application, attending the CGAC meetings and keeping
liaison with the Government Ministries, SFCs and
applicants.
3.11      Operational Results.  On the basis of the estimates of the foreign
exchange content of the first 150 subprojects under the first Credit, IDA
agreed to increase its refinance percentage from 40% to 60% in March 1975.
At the end of February 1976 SFC sanctions for projects eligible under the
IDA scheme amounted to Rs 370 million (551 projects). IDBI's refinance of
such projects amounted to Rs 314 million (416 projects), for which it had
obtained authorization of about US$19.4 million equivalent. A detailed
statement of the progress in the utilization of the IDA Credit is contained
in Annex 3. As of April 21, 1976, the authorizations had increased to
slightly less than US$23 million, and the remainder was expected to be
authorized by May/June 1976. As of February 29, 1976 disbursements by SFCs
amounted to Rs 124 million, while IDA disbursements as of April 21, 1976
amounted to $6.1 million.
1/   In addition, IDBI itself has instituted a few reforms under the IDA
Credit including: (i) reduction of the minimum limit of loan for
availability of refinance for medium-scale units from Rs 200,000 to
Rs 10,000; (ii) reduction of the minimum period of loan from 3 years
to 12-18 months and (iii) allowing refinance for acquisition of
second-hand machinery.
2/   Provides specific reason for the need to import a certain type of
equipment.



- 12; -
Characteristics of IDA Financing
3.12      Size of Assistance.  A breakdown of IDA assistance by size of
loan is contained in Annex 4, and indicates that 80% of all sanctions
(gross) by number and 63% by amount iLnvolved assistance of less than
Rs 1 million.
3.13      Industrial Distribution.  The distribution has been reasonably
diversified with the engineering subsector accounting for 25.7% of the
total by amount followed by electrical machinery and appliances with 15.8%
(Annex 4).
3.14      SFC.  The largest recipienit of the IDA Credit has been MSFC
(Maharashtra), which has accounted for sanctions of Rs 80.7 million (189
projects), followed by TIIC (Tamil Nadu) with Rs 68.4 million (85 projects).
At the other end of the scale, J&K SIFC (Jammu and Kashmir) has sanctioned
only two loans for Rs 0.6 million (Annex 5). The breakdown of disbursements
follows a similar pattern (Annex 6), except that KSFC (Karnataka) has dis-
bursed the most assistance so far. The number of import license applications
cleared by the CGAC as of February 2'9, 1976 is given in Annex 7.
3.15      Size of Unit.  As of April 30, 1975, 59% by number and 38% by
amount of IDBI sanctions under the IDA Credit involved small-scale units.
3.16      Economic Impact.  Annex 8 shows the ex-ante financial and economic
data on a sample of 68 subprojects submitted to IDA for prior approval under
the first line of credit. The internal rate of return was expected to be
above 20% in 75% of the cases, with an unweighted average of 29%. The
domestic resource cost (US dollar earned/saved) was calculated at below
Rs 6.00 in 25% of the cases, and above Rs 9.00 in only 16%, with an un-
weighted average of Rs 6.90. The average cost per job was $10,700; how-
ever, it was below $5,000 in 29% of the cases. In addition, in a sample
study of 76 projects accounting for about 49% of the total IDA refinance
up to June 30, 1975, IDBI estimated that the total value of output per
annum at full capacity would be expected to reach Rs 677 million with a
net value added of Rs 162 million, while exports should reach Rs 37 million/
annum.
SFC Inspections
3.17      Timing. When the IDA Credit was negotiated, it was understood
SFCs should be inspected once every two years. For the period July 1973 to
May 1975, IFD was able to mount 15 inspection visits. Three SFCs (Punjab,
Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana) were not inspected over this period, though this
overall record is still a substantial improvement over past performance.
After the reorganization, inspections are the responsibility of IDBI.



13 -
3.18      Procedures.  Previously, SFC inspections were undertaken by the
Regional Office staff of IFD. Now, they will be conducted mostly from the
IDBI Head Office. To begin with, there will be four inspection teams of
three men each (two for small SFCs). The SFCs will be inspected once every
two years. However, short on-the-spot inspections of the SFCs may also be
carried out from time to time. Previously, it took about 16 months on
average from inspection to finalization of the report, which was
then sent to the respective State Government/SFC and all regional offices for
implementation. The intervening steps included inspection (1-1/2 months),
report writing (three months), report editing at Regional Office (two months),
review and approval at Central Office (one month) and approval by RBI Deputy
Governor (2-1/2 months). Clearly, the time taken to provide feedback to the
SFCs was excessively long. Now IDBI intends that the inspection procedures
will be completely reorganized and the inspection reports standardized. It
is the intention that the inspection time, from the commencement of the inspection
to the finalization of the report, will not normally be more than six months.
3.19      Inspection Substance.  Past inspection reports have suffered
from a lack of coverage on major issues (general policies of SFC, organi-
zational structure, appraisal standards), and have rather focussed on more
detailed accounting issues, reflecting the "inspection" bias of RBI
(para 4.04). Further, IFD did not make sufficient effort to provide timely
and substantive feedback to SFCs on their progress in fulfilling the up-
grading program. However, IFD recently developed new, broader inspection
guidelines which have been reviewed by IDA and were found satisfactory.
Credit Guarantee Scheme
3.20      The Scheme was enlarged in 1970, and at present roughly 200
financial institutions make use of it to cover credit risks related to
working capital and term loans, letters of credit, and guarantees for all
industries, except transport and electric power. The Scheme provides for
a payment of up to 75% of the amount in default or the amount guaranteed,
whichever is lower. However, the maximum amount receivable is Rs 750,000
for working capital 1/ loans and an additional Rs 250,000 for term loans.
A guarantee fee of 0.1% is required, and is normally absorbed by the
financial institution rather than passed on to the ultimate borrower.
Guarantees outstanding increased from Rs 10.3 billion as of March 1973 to
Rs 16.1 billion as of December 1974. Rs 12.3 million was paid to credit
institutions covering 983 claims between July 1960 (when the Scheme was
introduced) and December 1974. There was an increase in claims pending
from the end of December 1972 (Rs 13.5 million or 7.6Z of total advances
in default) to the end of December 1973 (Rs 25.5 million or 9.7% of total
advances in default). In April 1974, the Scheme was again liberalized
for technician/entrepreneurs whose cover was increased to 90% from 75%
for the first five years after disbursement, subject to a maximum loan
of Rs 300,000 per borrower. Further, the Scheme was extended to cover
1/   Increased to Rs 1.25 million in 1975 on a two-year experimental
basis for financing in conjunction with IRCI.



- 14 -
industrial cooperative societies functioning as production cum-sales
units provided the original investment in plant and machinery of the
society and all its members did not exceed Rs 750,000. This latter
liberalization is expected to increase the flow of institutional credit
to a large number of handloom and powerloom societies.
3.21      At the end of 1975 IFD had 84 professional staff assigned to credit
guarantee work, of whom 71 were in the regional offices. Claims are initially
handled in IFD's regional offices and are then transmitted to the Central
Office for approval. There have been a number of complaints about the
functioning of the Scheme on the grounds that it took too long for IFD to
clear claim requests because of its predilection to ask an excessive number
of questions. Part of the problem related to the inadequacy of IFD's claim
forms, which are under review by IFD. Further, until recently it was un-
clear to SFCs what steps they had to take with a defaulting client prior to
claiming through IFD. This was clarified by IFD in a 1974 circular to all
SFCs, though some confusion still persists. To speed up processing to a
certain extent, IFD recently authorized its Regional Offices to sanction
claims where the aggregate claim per borrower does not exceed Rs 15,000.
3.22      All SFCs are currently using the Scheme.  Up to the end of
March 1975, SFCs as a group had filed 116 claims amounting to Rs 9.0
million.  Claims paid amounted to Rs 1.6 million (30 cases), while
Rs 7.0 million (81 cases) were still pending (Annex 9).  Nevertheless,
there is still room for greater use (claim filing) on the part of SFCs
as well as greater promptness in clearing claims by IFD (para 3.21). The
responsibility for the credit guarantee scheme remains with RBI.
IV. THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
The Role of the SFCs
4.01      The majority of SFCs were established in the 1950s, 1/ to fill an
important gap in India's industrial financing structure by providing term
finance to small- and medium-sized enterprises, hitherto somewhat neglected
by existing financial institutions. SFCs were also permitted to underwrite
and to give guarantees. It was expected that a State level institution
would be in a better position to meet the specific needs of the local
industrial community than IFCI, the only all-India term-lending institu-
tion then in existence. Over the years SFCs grew in importance, though
their quality varied a great deal.
4.02      A substantial change began to take place in the late fifties
and early sixties when the commercial banks, in particular the State Bank
of India (SBI), became much more active in financing small-scale industry.
1/   TIIC (Tamil Nadu) was established in 1949 under the Companies Act,
but is treated by RBI/IDBI as an SFC.



- 15 -
With aggressive management, competent staff, and an abundance of branches,
commercial banks began to offer, at least in the more industrialized States,
significant competition to SFCs. It appears that this trend is begin-
ning in the more backward States as well. With the nationalization of 14
commercial banks in 1969, the situation changed even more, in that GOI
began to urge the newly-nationalized banks to give the SSI the highest
priority in their lending operations.
4.03      In December 1972, the SFC Act was amended to broaden its ob-
jectives. 1/ The main amendments include:
(a) the creation of Special Capital which would be
contributed equally by the State Government and
IDBI; the shares of each would not attract
dividends, and the proceeds of the issue would
be used to finance risky ventures as equity financing.
Assistance would be restricted to new industrial
units which are private or public limited companies
with paid-up capital not exceeding Rs 500,000.
Preference would be given to industries in backward
areas, industries set up by technician entre-
preneurs or other artisans, and sophisticated types
of industries. The extent of capital participation
should not exceed the promoters' contribution or
20% of the paid-up capital of the company whichever
was lower. To date, however, only a few SFCs have
actually raised Special Capital, while others have
declined on the grounds that they feel that there is
insufficient demand for such assistance or that such
assistance is already available under other schemes in
the State. Also, since Special Capital is restricted
to corporate bodies, 2/ a very large percentage of the
potential SFC clientele is excluded. On the other
hand, SFCs could try to turn partnerships and pro-
prietorships into corporate bodies, using Special
Capital as a lever.
(b) the scope of SFCs' activities would be widened to
include the financing of industries engaged in the
maintenance and repair of machinery; and
(c) SFCs' individual lending limit would be raised from
Rs 2 million to Rs 3 million for corporations and
cooperatives, and from Rs 1 million to Rs 1.5 million
for all other entities.
1/   The Act was subsequently amended again in a few minor ways under
the Public Financial Institutions Laws (Amendment) Bill of 1975.
2/   Such things as partnerships and proprietorships are excluded since
in the absence of limited liability, SFCs could be forced to absorb
an entire loss to creditors.



- 16 -
SFC Upgrading Program
4.04      In an effort to improve certain aspects of the working of SFCs,
individual upgrading programs were developed by IFD/IDBI on the basis of
discussions with SFCs, and were agreed by IDA in 1972 as part of the first
Credit. It has since been concluded by IDA and IDBI/IFD that the substance
of the upgrading programs themselves was insufficient in scope. Thus, on the
basis of previous IDA end-use missions, and subsequent visits by IFD/IDBI
representatives, revised upgrading programs have been developed for each
SFC with a much broader focus. The programs include detailed recommendations
on management, organization and staffing, policies and procedures, appraisal
standards, improvements in portfolio quality and financial management and
planning. Also, each revised upgrading program will be supplemented with
proposals to:
(a)  increase the role of the Boards of Directors and the
sanctioning authority of the Executive Committee
(para 4.06);
(b)  provide the continuity and smooth turnover of top
management and the strengthening of the second layer
of management (para 4.02); and
(c)  streamline interest rate structures (para 4.14).
These revised upgrading programs, along with the debt service coverage limit-
ation (para 4.35) will form the basis for an agreement between IDBI and each
SFC to enable the latter to be eligible for withdrawal under the proposed
loan. In addition, the Bank has spelled out a number of recommendations
tailored to the needs of each SFC (Volumes II and III 1/). These recommenda-
tions will not form a part of the upgrading programs per se, but IDBI and
the SFCs will implement the recommendations to the maximum extent possible
and IDBI will include a review of them in its annual reports to the Bank
on the SFCs.
Summary Evaluation of SFC Operations
4.05      Ownershio.  The composition of the shareownership of the 18 SFCs
varies considerably, often because of the timing of their establishment. 2/
As of March 31, 1975, the aggregate plaid-in capital of all SFCs was
Rs 305.7 million. Annex 10 shows that the respective State Government
is usually the largest shareholder, ranging from 36% (Rajasthan) to 89%
1/   Paras 4.05 to 4.43 highlight the most important points made in
Volumes II and III. In addition, these paragraphs have taken into
account the changes resulting from the implementation of the IDBI Act.
2/   The authorized capital of any SFC is limited to between Rs 5 million
and Rs 100 million, the latter limit having been increased from
Rs 50 million under the SFC Act Amendments in 1975.



- 17 -
(Himachal Pradesh).  IDBI is a shareholder in all the SFCs, with holdings
ranging from 3.8% (Himachal Pradesh) to 42.5% (Gujarat). These figures
include RBI's shareholdings, which have now been transferred to IDBI as a
result of the IDBI Act. By virtue of its substantial shareholding, each
State Government is in a position to play an important role in influencing
its SFC's policies (para 4.39), though this is counter-balanced by RBI/IDBI's
importance in providing funds (para 4.14), and in their influence in
selecting the Managing Directors (para 4.08).
4.06      Board of Directors.  With the exception of TIIC and the Assam
Financial Corporation (AFC), the composition of individual SFC Boards
reflects the SFC Act which stipulates that of the 11 Directors of each
Board, four be appointed by the State Government, that IDBI nominate two
Directors, and that four be elected by the remaining shareholders and that
the Managing Director also sit on the Board 1/. In most cases, the Boards
meet at regular monthly intervals wita reasonably high attendance records.
Each SFC also has an Executive Committee, consisting of four Directors in-
cluding the Managing Director, that has delegated authority to approve
individual projects with various limits, ranging between Rs 100,000 and
Rs 500,000. A number of SFCs are also assisted by Advisory Committees
that have special expertise in certain industrial fields. As a general
policy, greater sanctioning authority should be delegated to Executive Com-
mittees. Further, greater effort should be made by SFC management and staff
to provide Boards with better and more timely information on SFC activities.
4.07      Organization.  One of the primary weaknesses of past IFD inspections
of SFCs (para 4.04) was the absence of any attempt to assess the adequacy
of their organizational structure. The IFD/IDBI visits early in 1975
attempted this with considerable success, and IDBI will now standardize its
procedures accordingly. In essence, the new structures provide for a more
logical division of labor, a streamlining of appraisal and follow-up pro-
cedures, and an appropriate level of decentralization in decision-making.
A common trend in the past year has been the significant expansion in SFCs'
branch network which now totals 93, though this is far short of the total
of the commercial banks as of June 1974 (16,936). However, SFCs should be
careful not to over-extend the establishment of branches, nor to expand
both staff and branches at such a rate that they cannot be effectively
absorbed (as has happened in Madhya Pradesh).
4.08      Management.  SFC Managing Directors are appointed by the State
Government in consultation with and after obtaining advice from IDBI. 2/ The
historical problem of a rapid turnover of Managing Directors has somewhat
abated, although there is still difficulty in ensuring adequate continuity
of management, particularly when the incumbent is seconded from the Indian
Administrative Service (IAS), as happens in about 50% of cases. Overall,
1/   Before the recent amendments to the SFC Act, the state government
had three representatives, IDBI and RBI one each, out of a total
of ten directors.
2/   Previously RBI.



- 18 -
the quality of SFC management has improved significantly over the past
two years. It would be desirable to eliminate the use of one-year terms
for Managing Directors in favor of a minimum of three or four years. By
the same token, when Managing Directors have been very effective after
serving several four-year terms, there should be no need to insist on a
change per se. Moreover, to ensure adequate continuity, the successor to
any Managing Director should be taken on roughly six months prior to the
departure of the previous Managing Director. In addition, IDBI and the
State Governments should, where no suitable candidates are available,
continue to agree to second outside personnel as Managing Directors (as
in the case of Jammu and Kashmir and Orissa SFCs). The second layer of
management also needs considerable st3rengthening, either through appropriate
appointments from within the State or again through secondment of staff from
the all-India institutions for fixed terms (e.g. Punjab, Assam, West Bengal)
(para 4.13).
4.09      Staff.  The original upgrad:Lng programs provided specific
targets for recruitment of both professional and non-professional staff
for each SFC. Because of the numerous definitional problems that devel-
oped, and because the targets themselves did not appear to be based on
an adequate analysis of the needs of the SFC, more systematic recruitment
programs have been developed.
4.10      Annex 11 shows the growth in professional and other staff
from March 31, 1973 to December 31, 1974, for each SFC. The only SFC that
did not register an increase in professional staff was Maharashtra SFC,
given the adequate size of its existinig staff. There is still need for
additional recruitment, particularly to strengthen follow-up work, and to
provide more technical and legal expertise.
4.11      A serious recruitment constraint affecting virtually all SFCs
has been the pay scales, which are linked to State Government levels, and
which are low in comparison with those of other financial institutions.
In many States, SFC pay scales were 25% - 50% lower than those of com-
mercial banks, the most important competitors in the recruitment of good
staff. In a few instances (e.g. Haryana), SFCs have succeeded in mitiga-
ting the effects of such disparities by the use of "advanced increments"
for new recruits, to increase starting salaries. However, this requires
the active support of the State Government, and is not always forthcoming.
SFC staff quality is now the subject of continuous review by IFD particularly
the area of training requirements.
4.12      For the past few years, considerable effort has been devoted to
the training of professional staff, and up to the end of December 1973, 123
had undergone training in specific courses related to project appraisal
work sponsored by IDBI. In addition, the Bankers Training College of RBI
has also conducted special courses for SFC staff. Thus, at least some 20%
of SFC professional staff have undergone some outside professional training.
Further, SFCs should make much greater efforts to use existing staff more
effectively, given the strong academic backgrounds of many non-professionals.



- 19 -
4.13      A recent development in upgrading individual SFCs has been the
practice by some of the all-India financial institutions (IDBI and IFCI)
to second experienced staff members to SFCs as advisors or in senior line
positions (para 4.08). In addition, IDBI will also consider the secondment
of staff members for short intervals (3-6 months) with SFCs to work on
clearly defined areas such as assistance in project appraisal (paras 4.19-4.20).
Resource Mobilization
4.14      A summary of financial resources of all SFCs as of March 31, 1975
is contained in Annex 12, which shows that the SFCs as a whole have relied
primarily (excluding loan collections) on bond issues with State Govern-
ment guarantees to finance their operations (38.7%). Of less importance
has been IDBI refinance facilities (29.2%) and share capital (10.2%). 12
SFCs have also collected deposits with maturities in excess of one year
in amounts limited to the size of their individual share capital. 1/ Though
interest rates have varied, in most circumstances the cheapest funds (exclud-
ing share capital) have come from IDBI. Thus, IDBI's ordinary refinance
operations give spreads to SFCs of 3.5% for loans to the small scale sector
and/or to backward districts, as well as for loans for medium-scale projects.
However, in the former case, SFCs borrow from IDBI at rates of 6 to 7.5%
and on-lend at 9.5 to 11.0%. In the latter case SFCs pay 9.0% and relend
at 12.5%, a rate which makes them less competitive with commercial banks.
The revised upgrading programs (para 4.04) will include proposals to
streamline the SFC's interest rate structures, including proposals to
reduce the excessive number of interest rates.
4.15      It should be stressed that the SFCs themselves have very little
independence in raising resources, since RBI determines annually the amount,
term and maturity of all bond issues, including the ad hoc bonds, 2/ which
the SFCs are permitted to float. Moreover, the refinance facilities of
IDBI are generally limited to three times the SFCs' equity, though tem-
porary exceptions are sometimes made. Aside from planning to have sufficient
resources available to meet operational commitments and disbursements,
it is somewhat difficult for an SFC in the short run to change materially
its resource position, given the constraints in which it operates, even if
it so desires. Even with such constraints, however, there is some scope
for an SFC to improve resource planning through greater use of IDBI's
1/   A recent ruling by RBI states that SFC deposits should not be consi-
dered as trustee securities on the part of investors for purposes
of calculating reserve ratio requirements, though this is still under
discussion.
2/   SFCs can borrow from RBI in maturities up to 90 days against trustees
securities or commercial bills, and with a maturity of up to 12 months
against government securities or the SFCs own bonds up to 90% of
their paid-up capital.



- 20 -
refinance facilities and the avoidance wherever possible of relatively
high cost borrowings such as time deposits. In addition, two SFCs (Gu-
jarat and Bihar) have overcommitted themselves in the absence of sufficient
resources, a situation which could have been avoided through proper fore-
casting. Further, SFCs in general are making increasing use of ad hoc
bonds from RBI to meet short-term (less than 12 month) resource require-
ments, the bonds having grown from Rs 62 million in FY73 to Rs 213 million
in FY75. In some instances, SFCs have been using the facility on a more
or less permanent basis, indicating a lack of adequate planning.
Policies and Procedures 1/
4.16      Lending Terms.  SFCs' lending terms vary from State to State,
though the spreads under the IDBI refinance scheme are fixed. Nevertheless,
certain priorities are readily apparent through the different rates charged
for specific activities. In particulaLr, SFCs usually give lower rates of
interest, longer maturities, and lower margin ratios to projects in backward
areas and to projects in the small-scaLle sector. The individual terms of
lending for each SFC are contained in Annex 6 of each appendix in Volumes II
and III. Loans are usually restricted to financing fixed assets, though
some SFCs are prepared to finance working capital in conjunction with fixed
asset financing. Working capital loans are not eligible for refinancing.
4.17      Where IDBI refinancing is inIvolved, a lower rate of interest is
available to entrepreneurs, usually of the order of 1% to 3% less than
would otherwise be payable. However, IDBI charges a commitment fee of 1%
per annum, beginning six months from the date of IDBI's approval for loans
not then disbursed. 2/ Under the liberalized refinance scheme (LRS), nine-
months grace is given irrespective of the status of the loan disbursement.
Until recently, not all SFCs were charging commitment fees, while in many
instances IDBI waived such fees to SFCs. Over the past year, IDBI agreed
with IDA not to waive commitment fees to SFCs and to insist that the latter
charge the maximum commitment fees.
4.18      Appraisal procedures and standards.  SFCs have often been criti-
cized for taking too much time to process loans. On average SFCs require
an estimated four to five months to process an individual loan application
which is somewhat long, though a small percentage of applications have taken
over two years. However, this performlance has improved in the past year.
According to SFCs, much of the blame should be placed on the entrepreneur,
1/   The policies of the SFCs are contained in the SFC Act as well as in
guidelines from RBI/IDBI. The State Governments, though empowered
to issue guidelines to the SFCs in consultation with RBI/IDBI had
not done so to any great extent.
2/   Or three months from the date of IDBI's approval on the undisbursed
portion for loans already disbursed.



- 21 -
who is slow to provide the necessary information, and on cumbersome Government
procedures. Nonetheless, when undue delays occur it is clearly due at least
in part to staff shortages or inadequate procedures within SFCs. In some, a
system of sequential appraisal has been adopted even where the total number of
staff was small. Where not already undertaken, SFCs should be encouraged
to establish appraisal teams to speed up the processing of applications.
4.19      Given the small size of projects and the lack of good data, it is
not surprising to find that appraisal standards are not of the same quality
as is possible for medium and large-scale industry. Nonetheless, the SFCs
have made considerable progress in the past year as a result of a continuous
dialogue with IDBI and IDA. The areas of analysis that have undergone
improvement have been (a) marketing, (b) financial projections including
working capital requirements, (c) management and (d) project implementation
schedules.
4.20      Until a few years ago, most SFCs had no qualified staff for the
technical aspects of project appraisal and were forced to rely mainly on
SISIs, which act as an arm of the State Governments in providing technical-
economic expertise in project appraisal. With the exception of one or
two SISI units in the major cities, most SFCs felt that the quality of
such assistance was inadequate. Partly for that reason, SFCs recruited
a number of technical staff to undertake this kind of work. However,
many still lack experience. The Kerala and Assam SFCs are fortunate
to have available the technical expertise of KITCO1/ and NEITCO 2/ res-
pectively. A third institution in Bihar (BITCO) 3T was recently established
to undertake this function. IDBI intends to establish consultancy organiza-
tions in less industrialized states. This will be beneficial to the SFCs
for assistance in project preparation.
4.21      Follow-Up Procedures.  Probably the weakest part of SFC activities
is the follow-up work, where the shortage of staff has resulted in a
general neglect of clients, contributing to the high level of arrears.
Nearly all SFCs tend to concentrate on appraisal at the expense of follow-
up work. Follow-up visits are often limited to clients with known diffi-
culties, though in some cases such clients account for 80% of the SFC's
total portfolio. More branches, adequately staffed, would help to allevi-
ate this problem, which is aggravated because SPCs generally cater to the
small-scale and particularly the non-corporate sector, where little in-
formation of an operational and financial nature is willingly made available
by clients, and even where it is, is not submitted regularly. Thus, it
is important that the SFCs accord high priority to timely field visits.
4.22      Procurement and Disbursement.  Historically, SFCs' review of pro-
curement practices, hampered by lack of appropriate technical expertise,
1/   Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization.
2/   North Eastern Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization.
3/   Bihar Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization.



- 22 -
has not been particularly thorough. Rather, the entrepreneur's judgement
has been the major factor in determininag equipment requirements. However,
as part of the upgrading program, SFCs have in principle adopted the procedure
of requiring price quotations from at least three suppliers as well as
considering the quality of the equipment and the availability of spare parts.
At least one SFC (Maharashtra) has, in conjunction with the State Directorate
of Industry, assumed responsibility (wlhich has been vested in all SFCs, in
line with a recent GOI directive) for providing the "essentiality" clearance
for particular applications. This serivice should increase as SFCs build
up their engineering staff.
4.23      Few SFCs have established deitailed, systematic disbursement pro-
cedures, though the practice of ensurinxg that the entrepreneur puts in
his part of the capital cost first is common. Overall, however, disbursement
procedures are reasonably adequate. Nevertheless, SFCs, as a group, should
put greater emphasis on establishing sound disbursement procedures with
regular "verification visits". SFCs continue to experience lags in dis-
bursements due partly to delays over licensing, information from client,
verification of legal title, and over their own documentation, which
should be rectified.
Resource Allocation
4.24      Operational Results.  A statement of each SFC's operational re-
sults for the fiscal years 1973 to 1975 is contained in Annex 13. Their
loan sanctions grew from Rs 789 millioni in FY73 to Rs 1,415 million in
FY75, or by 79% in nominal terms. With the exception of Assam, Uttar Pradesh
and Jammu and Kashmir, which recorded declines, each SFC experienced some
increase in its lending operations. MaLharashtra continues to be the largest
sanctioner with Rs 221.7 million (15.6% of the total) in FY75, followed by
Gujarat (Rs 188.0 million).  Overall di.sbursements grew from Rs 449 million
in FY73 to Rs 738 million in FY75. Gujjarat showed the largest single annual
disbursement (Rs 144.7 million). However, loan collections actually
fell from Rs 248 million to Rs 222 million over the same period. Thus,
total SFC outstandings increased from Its 2.2 billion to Rs 2.8 billion
in FY75.
4.25      SFCs as a group have been inactive in making equity investments,1/
bond subscriptions and guarantees. At the end of FY75, equity investments
and bond subscriptions represented 0.5Z of total operations while guarantees
represented about 3%. The one exception has been TIIC which, since not
legally an SFC itself, is atypical. As of March 31, 1975, 20% of its
total portfolio (outstanding) was represented by equity investments. TIIC's
weak investment portfolio amounts to almost twice its own net worth which
is an alarming situation. With the availability of Special Capital, it
1/   SFCs are not allowed to subscribe to the shares of a company unless
they have underwritten the issue and may not hold such shares for more
than seven years, though exceptions are granted by RBI. Moreover,
SFCs cannot hold more than 30% of the total shares of any company, or
more than 30% of its own net worth in a company, whichever is less.



- 23 -
would be desirable for the SFCs to become more active in equity investments,
if there are appropriate opportunities, within the limits set out in the Act.
Characteristics of Portfolio
4.26 (a)  Size of Loans.  The weighted average size of approvals was
Rs 230,000 during FY75 (Annex 14). In some SFCs, the trend
has been towards smaller loans, though in others (e.g.,
Maharashtra) an attempt has been made to finance larger
loans in order to increase net income and, thereby, obtain
a more profitable operation. The minimum loan amount
varies from one SFC to another but is usually around Rs 10,000.
(b) Regional Distribution. SFCs have adopted various measures
to promote industrial development in backward districts in-
cluding loans at reduced margins, concessional rates of
interest and reductions in processing and legal fees. As
a result, the proportion of such loans sanctioned has grown
from 28% of total sanctions in FY72 to 43% in FY74.
(c) Maturities. SFC maturities range generally from seven to
twelve years (excluding transport operators, who receive
considerably shorter loans). It is only recently that
most SFCs began carefully to determine maturities on
the basis of the debt service capability of the individual
client as opposed to arbitrary "rules of thumb."
(d) Size of Industry. Over the years SFCs have become important
sources of funds for the small-scale sector, and in FY75,
an estimated 54% of loans by amount and 90% by number went
to the small-scale sector.
(e) Industrial Distribution. SFCs' portfolios tend to reflect
the distribution of the industrial activities in their
particular States, though in most cases they are well
distributed amongst many sub-sectors. The most important
industries are food manufacturing, basic metals, chemicals,
and metal products. In certain instances (e.g., Orissa,
Assam) SFCs tend to be over-exposed in particular sub-
sectors such as rice milling (Orissa) and the tea industry
(Assam). In such circumstances, SFCs should make every
effort to diversify their portfolios wherever possible.
4.27      Technician Entrepreneurs Scheme.  In order to reach the smaller
and newer elements of the small scale sector, and thereby reduce unemploy-
ment, sixteen of the eighteen SFCs have developed schemes for providing



- 24 -
assistance to tzzhnician entrepreneurs. 1/ The scheme generally provides
lower rates of interest, reduced margins on security, and longer grace
periods. Up to the end of September 1974, 14 SFCs had sanctioned 874
loans amounting to Rs 162 million under the scheme.
Financial Performance
4.28      Quality of Loan Portfolio.  As part of the upgrading program
SFCs were expected to conduct a case-by-case review of their entire port-
folios. As of March 31, 1975, the review had been completed in 15 of the
eighteen SFCs, while in the remainder the review was in progress. The
general quality of the SFCs' portfolio, however, remains weak. An analysis
of the arrears of etch SFC is contained in Annex 15. This shows that only
six improved their rrears position in FY75 over FY74 using the "infected"
portfolio criteria (column 3), while only eight showed an improvement in
actual arrears of principal and interest (column 4). In the former case,
the ratios ranged from 15% (Rajasthan) to 61.9% (West Bengal), while the
actual arrears varied from 2.1% (Punjab) to 36.7% (Assam). Nevertheless,
considering the difficult business condition experienced by industry in
1974 these results are reasonably satisfactory.
4.29      After analysing all loans in arrears for more than two years,
and the twenty largest loans in arrears for each SFC, the following general
reasons for high arrears were identified: (a) environmental factors such
as power shortages, raw material shortages and labor problems, resulting
in delays in implementation of certaLn projects; (b) SFC institutional
factors as in the absence of an adequate penalty fee, inadequate follow-up
work and (c) specific project reasons such as managerial incompetence and,
in a minority of cases, lack of markets. SFCs have taken some steps to try
to reduce arrears, including rescheduling (on justifiable grounds) as well
as suit filing in chronic cases, and claims under the Credit Guarantee Scheme.
4.30      In a few SFCs in the eastern region, Default Committees, consist-
ing of a small group of Board members, have been set up to review all
accounts in arrears beyond a certain time. Individual entrepreneurs are
invited to attend committee meetings to explain the reasons for their
defaults.  Against the background of generally weak portfolios, very few
loans have been written off in the past five years; 2/ SFCs claim that, in
nearly all cases, collateral is sufficient to cover potential losses.
4.31      A special problem has emerged in the case of "sick" textile mills
previously financed by certain SFCs. These were amongst the 103 textile
mills taken over by GOI under the Sick Textile Undertaking (Nationalization)
Act, 1974 and placed under the National Textile Corporation. As of June 30,
1974, nine SFCs had Rs 45.3 million oustanding to 23 such units. The Act
1/   Defined as graduates or diploma holders and certified technician
and/or those having adequate experience in a particular field.
2/   SFCs are reluctant to write off since no tax deductions are available
until all other remedies are exhiausted.



- 25 -
has set out the amount of compensation that will be paid by GOI and also
the order of priority of such payments arising out of the liabilities. The
"opost-takeover management" claims will take precedence over the "pre-takeover"
claims and at the same time, workers' back wages will be given overriding
priority. Thus, it is highly questionable whether SFCs can be adequately
compensated under the circumstances. If not, write-offs will be required
which, in a number of SFCs, may seriously jeopardize their financial
position. GOI has appointed Compensation Commissioners to sort out the
claims on the assets of the various textile mills. Once the Commissioners
make their decisions, the SFCs concerned should make the necessary adjust-
ments in their portfolios through write-offs. This may entail the need for
the SFCs' shareholders to increase the SFCs' equity base so as to stay
within their debt-equity limit of 10:1, as stipulated under the SFC Act.
4.32      Any attempt to improve the arrears position of most SFCs will
require a substantial effort. Nevertheless, all SFCs should put increasing
emphasis on follow-up work through systematic visits to all clients to
ascertain the exact position of each operation, particularly before problems
develop. Secondly, appraisal standards need to be improved to reduce the
likelihood of problems at a later date (e.g., working capital shortages).
Further, SFCs should make greater use of the Credit Guarantee Scheme,
judicious rescheduling and suit filing where appropriate. In addition, the
penalty fees for clients in arrears and/or rebates for prompt payment should
still be increased further from their present level in order to eliminate,
as far as possible, the phenomenon of willful defaulters who prefer to repay
in the first instance loans from commercial banks since they carry interest
rates of 3% to 4% above those of the SFCs.
4.33      Quality of equity portfolio.  Given the small size of SFCs'
equity portfolios, they do not materially affect the overall financial
position of the SFCs, with the exception of TIIC. Nevertheless, for many
SFCs, the dividend yield has been extremely low because of the poor finan-
cial performance of the individual clients. The return for FY75 on the
total equity portfolio of SFCs (excluding those with no equity investments)
ranged frow 2.68% in Punjab to 24.2% in Andhra Pradesh.
4.34      Profitability.  A statement showing the financial performance
of the eighteen SFCs on the basis of a variety of ratios is contained in
Annex 16. Profit after tax as a percentage of year-end share capital
ranged from 0.2% (Assam) to 35.5% (Bihar). From FY74 to FY75, fifteen
SFCs showed an increase in this ratio. The nominal financial spread
ranged from 0.6% (Assam) to 5.0% (Himachal Pradesh). 1/ Administrative
expenses as a percentage of average total assets ranged from 0.7% (Andhra
Pradesh) to 2.2% (Maharashtra) in FY75. The relatively high ratio for
Maharashtra reflects the SFC's considerable efforts to establish regional
offices and branches, and to carry a significant portfolio of very small
1/   Income from term loans as a percentage of average term loan portfolio
minus cost of term debt as a percentage of average term debt.



- 26 -
loans. 1/ In most cases, after a SFC has allocated 40% of its gross income
to reserves, encouraged by tax exemption, and has paid the required taxes
and dividends, little is left over for the provisions that should have
been a first charge on earnings. In FY75, the net profit of all SFCs
taken together was Rs 68.1 million, based on total assets of Rs 3.35 billion.
4.35      Capital Structure.  The SFC Act limits the debt/equity ratio of
all SFCs to 10:1. At the end of FY75, this ratio ranged from 2.5:1 (Jammu
and Kashmir) to 8.2:1 (TIIC). Under the existing Credit Agreement, an
additional covenant ensures that the debt service coverage of each SFC
based on the combination of an estimate of results for the subsequent six
months as well as actuals from the past six months should be not less than
1:1 as of October 1, 1973, not less than 1.1:1 as of April 1, 1974 and not
less than 1.25:1 as of April 1 of any succeeding year. For FY75, actual
debt service ratios ranged from 0.78:1 (TIIC) to 2.8:1 (Jammu and Kashmir)
with 8 of the SFCs below the 1.25 target. 2/ A number of difficulties emerged
in the interpretation of the ratio. In the absence of sinking fund pro-
visions, most SFCs repaid previous bond issues in lump sums, so that on
a specific date the debt service coverage position might appear unfavorable.
Further, RBI's practice of providing iso-called "ad hoc" bond funds to SFCs
(para 4.15) in temporary resource difficulties also resulted in uneven ratios
for short periods. In addition, the use of a combination of six months fore-
casts and six months actual figures iinserted an arbitrary quality into
the calculations. Finally, the targets themselves were open to question in
that in the short-term there was very little an SFC could do to rectify a low
ratio, since the only items used in ilts calculation that were capable of
improvement in the short run, were loan collections and gross income. For
the proposed loan the debt service covenant will be modified to include only
actual results; the 1.25:1 limit as oJE April 1 each year will be retained,
but be calculated on the basis of assumming sinking fund provisions for bond
redemptions (to avoid large fluctuations).
4.36      With one or two exceptions, SFCs do not have adequate provisions
for doubtful loans, though reserves plus provisions as a percentage of
year end portfolio in FY75 ranged from 3.0% (Gujarat) to 9.6% (West Bengal).
IDBI should review the adequacy of provisions (including provisions for
equity investments) with the auditors and managements of the individual SFCs.
1/   Which explains its present efforts to now finance l1Tger loans
and improve profitability (para. 4.26(a)).
2/   Without adjustment as described below.



- 27 -
4.37      Dividends.  SFCs pay fixed dividends under the Act 1/ to their
shareholders, usually at a rate of 3.5%, this has resulted in pay-out
ratios ranging from 10% (Bihar) to 46.3% (Orissa) in FY75. At the same
time, year-end book value per share as a percentage of par value ranged
from 130 (Gujarat) to 207 (Andhra Pradesh).
4.38      Audit.  As a result of an amendment to the SFC Act in 1972, there
is now only one auditor for each SFC, appointed by the State Government in
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India. The right
of the private shareholders to appoint an additional auditor has been
abrogated. The quality of the audit has varied considerably. In some
cases, the auditors' letters to management indicated significant quali-
fications to some of the figures in the financial statements. On the
other hand, the audits of some SFCs indicated that the auditors had over-
looked shortcomings in the financial statements. Under the proposed loan,
the SFCs audits will be undertaken in the long form, but schedules 2 and 3 2/
(analysis of quality of loan and equity portfolios, respectively) will be
produced only for outstanding loans/equity investments in excess of
Rs 200,000.  This modification has been introduced to take into account the
mall-scale nature of SFC portfolios.
Relations with State Governments
4.39      The State Governments are closely associated with each SFC
through their involvement in fixing the amount of authorized and issued
capital, nominating three Board directors, and appointing the Managing
Director in consultation with RBI. State Governments are also important
in terms of granting incentives, promoting backward regions particularly
through the establishment of industrial estates, and guaranteeing SFC
bonds and dividends. In a few states, SFCs are used as channels for
special State Government funds for specific industries. Thus, State Gov-
ernments exert some influence over SFCs, and, to a significant extent,
the success of the upgrading programs, particularly of management and
staff, will continue to depend on the degree of commitment of the State
Governments.
Reporting Requirements
4.40      Aside from IDBI's normal reporting requirements, IDBI will prepare
annually detailed evaluation reports for each SFC by September 30 3/ of
1/   Until FY71, some SFCs (Orissa, Jammu and Kashmir) still received finan-
cial assistance from State Governments to pay such dividends, and a
number are still repaying such assistance received earlier. Because
of the introduction of an interest suspense account, Assam will probably
require a subvention from the State Government to pay its dividend in
FY75.
2/   As per "Illustrative Form of Audit  Report for Development Finance
Companies".
3/   For 1976:  October 31.



- 28 -
each calendar year for forwarding to the Bank for review along the lines
presented in Volumes II and III. This will take the place of semi-annual and
quarterly data reporting by SFCs to IDA under the first credit, which would
now be restricted to IDBI only. In addition, the SFCs will prepare, with
the assistance of other State level bodies, a review of the industrial sector
(small and medium scale) of their respective States to be forwarded through
IDBI to the Bank for review also by September 30 each year.
Prospects
4.41      The difficulties experienced by the industrial sector in India
in 1973 and 1974 have been somewhat alleviated. They were largely due to
shortages of raw materials, labor unrest, power cuts, and transport bottle-
necks which led to significant underutilization of capacity. Since then,
however, a very favorable monsoon has reduced the level of power cuts,
and labor unrest has also reduced. Further, GOI has recently streamlined
procedures for the allocation of raw materials, particularly for the small
scale sector. Coupled with this GOT has been successful in reducing the
rate of inflation. As a result, the overall prospect for new investment in
the industrial sector appear to be more promising than in previous years.
Given GOI's priority emphasis on the small scale sector and the proposals to
launch a modernization program in thiLs area, the demand for foreign exchange
from SFCs should be substantial.
4.42      Five-year forecasts have been prepared for each SFC (balance
sheet, income statement, sources and uses of funds). These reflect the
particular industrial prospects in each State as well as the processing
capacity of the SFC. In addition, detailed forecasts for IDBI's overall
operations have been prepared and are contained in Volume I. The Bank/IDA
refinance scheme forecasts are sunmmarized below:
IDBI Refinance of Industrial Loans (Bank/IDA Credit Component)
(Rs million)
1974      1975       1976       1977       1978
--- Actuals --
Approvals             51         96         214       252         302
Commitments           -         126         183       242         289
Disbursements          -         31         141       195         251
4.43      From the above, IDBI is likely to sanction refinance of the entire
first Credit by May/June 1976 on the basis of total sanctions of Rs 361
million. Disbursements under the existing Credit are expected to increase
substantially over the next two years. Thus, on the assumption that there
is sufficient staffing and reorganizaLtion in IDBI's Refinance Department
and its Regional Offices (paras 3.04 and 3.07), IDBI is likely to sanction
about an additional Rs 550 million for the two-year period beginning



- 29 -
July 1, 1976. This represents 1/ $40 million in eligible foreign exchange
requirements. A disbursement schedule for the proposed loan is contained
in Annex 17.
V. OBJECTIVES OF THE CREDIT
5.01      To date, Bank Group involvement in the small and medium-scale
industrial sectors in India has been confined to the existing line of credit
through IDBI to the SFCs. That Credit had two basic objectives, namely
the financing of the import component of sound, high-priority industrial
projects in the small and medium-scale sectors and the upgrading through
specific programs of the operations and procedures of SFCs. Based on the
experience under the first project (para 3.15) and as a result of the change
in definition of SSI (para 2.13, footnote 1), approximately 90% by number
and 65% by amount of the proposed credit would go to the small scale sector.
5.02      The proposed Loan would provide continuity to these objectives
and at the same time expand on them. In the first instance, it would,
through project financing, contribute to a multiplicity of objectives in-
cluding the modernization of SSI, the development of new entrepreneurs,
backward districts, employment generation both in rural and urban areas,
and an increase in exports. Secondly, the upgrading of the SFCs that has
begun over the past several years, particularly improvements in the quality
of management and staff, the streamlining of procedures (including those
involving GOI), and improvements in appraisal standards would continue.
Moreover, since then, the upgrading programs have been revised and expanded
to include more detailed recommendations involving the SFCs. Thus, the
proposed Loan would provide the vehicle for the Bank's continued involve-
ment in the upgrading of the SFCs, particularly through more comprehensive
and detailed action programs for individual SFCs. However, it is expected
that in future IDBI would assume more of the final responsibility for in-
specting and upgrading the SFCs as well as monitoring appraisal standards
through subproject reviews.
VI. THE PROPOSED LENDING SCHEME
6.01      General.  As in the previous Credit (356-IN), the proceeds of
the proposed Bank Loan would be re-lent by GOI to IDBI for the exclusive
use of SFCs, through IDBI's refinancing scheme. The number of sub-
projects financed by the loan would be large (estimated at about 1,000).
In view of its objectives to upgrade the standards of SFCs and to support
small- and medium-sized industries, the lending scheme continues to call
for special arrangements to ensure effective use and efficient administra-
tion of the Loan. The main points are presented below:
1/   Assuming 65% refinance, 50% of loans in backward areas, and an
exchange rate of Rs 8.0 = US$1.



- 30 -
6.02      On-lending Terms.  The principal terms and conditions of on-
lending of the proceeds of the Loan would be as follows: (a) GOI would
lend the proceeds to IDBI on term satisfactory to the Bank. The present
rate of interest would be 7.75% less a rebate of 1/4% for prompt payment.
The foreign exchange risk (para 6.09) would be borne by GOI, and amortization
would be on a fixed schedule approximating the estimated amortization
pattern of sub-loans (extending over 18 years including 3 years of grace;
(b) IDBI would lend the proceeds to SFCs at an interest rate of not less
than 8.0% per annum to small-scale units covered under the Credit Guarantee
Scheme, technician-entrepreneurs and units in specified backward districts
and not less than 8.75% for other cases. Amortization would be on a
project-by-project basis conforming to IDBI's normal procedures for refi-
nancing, subject to a period of not more than 15 years; (c) SFCs would lend
to enterprises at an interest rate of not less than 11.5% per annum in the
case of loans made to SFCs at 8.0%, and 12.0% in other cases, plus the SFCs'
current commitment charges. Thus, the SFCs would enjoy a higher spread
(3.5% compared to 3.25%) to cover the more costly and riskier loans to SSI
while at the same time charging a higher final rate (12.0%) on other loans.
SFCs would onlend to enterprises on terms and conditions that give adequate
protection to SFCs, IDBI and the Bank.
6.03      This interest rate structure would allow SFCs a spread of between
3.25% and 3.5%, which is necessary to enable them to cover their costs and
to improve their financial positions. IDBI's spread would be adequate to
cover its expenses in administering the loan. Though inflation rate pro-
jections are difficult given the present negative rates (1975/76), it has
been assumed that the rate of inflation will average about 5-7% over the
next five years. Thus the SFC final lending rates will entail real posi-
tive rates of 5-7%. Further, the SFC rates would be in line with ICICI's
foreign currency rate of 11%, where the sub-borrower bears the exchange
risk.
6.04      Projects Eligible for Loans.  IDBI has established basic financial
and economic selection criteria for projects, and these have been approved
by the Bank. Under the SFC Act, SFC subloan are limited to size to Rs 3
million, and eligible enterprises must have a total equity (paid up share
capital and free reserves) of no more than Rs 10 million.
6.05      Use of Loan Proceeds.  The proposed Loan would be used to
finance imports. For that purpose, the Bank would reimburse 65% of IDBI's re-
finance disbursements for SFC-projects with import components. 1/ Since
the import requirements for capital goods of SFC-financed projects are
estimated at about S40 million for two years through June 30, 1978, the
Loan proceeds would be principally used for financing caoital goods
1/   Under Credit 356-IN, the estimated foreign exchange content of the
SFC loans was 62%. In addition, it is considered likely that there
will be a higher average foreign exchange component under the proposed
Loan because of the expected increase in the relative prices of imported
goods due to the present negative rate of inflation in India.



- 31 -
and services imports. However, given the need of small-scale enterprises
for imported raw materials, the proceeds would also be available for such
purchases, provided the sub-borrower's need is for permanent working capital
as in the case of the first credit.
6.06      Eligibility of SFCs and Institution-Building.  To ensure effective
use of Bank funds, the proceeds would be available to only those SFCs which
continue to meet the requirements of the revised upgrading programs.
6.07      Authorization of Sub-Projects.  IDBI would forward to the Bank
for its prior approval, any sub-project whose loan amount exceeds Rs 2.5
million, including local currency component. However, for those SFCs that
have not yet submitted at least two acceptable cases for prior review, the
free limit of Rs 1 million under Credit 356-IN would be retained, but would
be raised to Rs 2.5 million on an individual SFC basis once two acceptable
prior review cases per SFC have been processed by the Bank/IDA. Appraisal
reports prepared by the SFCs concerned and IDBI's review of the appraisal
would accompany the request for the Bank's approval. It is estimated that
the Bank would review about 50 projects requiring its approval, accounting
for 20% by amount of the proposed Loan.
6.08      Disbursement.  The Bank would finance 65% of IDBI's disbursements
to SFCs for projects which include a component for the import of machinery
and equipment and services for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to
receipt of applications. The percentage thus represents an estimated average
of the eligible foreign exchange component in SFC projects. Since disburse-
ments would be first made by IDBI, reimbursements would be obtained from
the Bank at agreed intervals. Reimbursement to GOI would be made against
IDBI's certificate of expenditure, the documents for which would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by SFCs for submission to and
inspection by the Bank as and when deemed necessary.
6.09      Foreign Exchange Risk.  Both IDBI and SFCs would be protected
against foreign exchange risks. In addition, small scale units should not
be expected to bear the risk themselves. Thus, as in the previous project
the risk would be borne by GOI.






State-wise position of Term Loans (including instalment credits)
granted by scheduled ccsmercial banks to small scale industries
(Amount in million of rupee7s)
Name of the State/                              AS        O N       T H E      L A S T        FRIDAY           O F
Union Territory                   June 1972                              June 1973*                              June 1974*
No. of  Limits       Balance        No. of  Limits       Balance        No. of  Limits        Balance
Units   sanctioned   outstanding   Units   sanctioned   outstanding   Units   sanctioned  Outstanding
Andhra Pradesh            2740      156.o        113.6         3151      130.6       105.3         3453      145.3        123.6
Assam                      468        9.7          6.8          569       11.6        '8.2          724       16.9         11.7
Bihar                      652       48.6         26.6          802       40.0        29.3         1448       60.0         h1.2
Gujarat                   1927      104.7         76.8         2310     130.8         93.9         2690      168.1        127.5
Haryana                    412       26.6         19.0          602       37.9        30.7         1008       62.1         46.7
Himachal Pradesh            16         .1           .1           27        .4           .2           71        2.6          1.7
Jamnu & Kashmir             62        3.4          1.8          181       5.0          3.1          293        6.2          4.4
Karnataka                 4676      145.2        126.5         5496     180.5        156.3         6239      227.9        197.1
Kerala                    1616       84.2         57.6         2287       54.o        50.0         2453       63.6         54.4
Madhya Pradesh             986       57.1         31.1         1230       68.3         38.6        1547       63.3         43.o
Maharashtra               5278      306.5        243.1         6576      373.7        294.7         7502     435.9        352.2
Manipur                      1         -            -            16         .2          .1            67        .7           .2
Meghalaya                    4         -            -            12         .2           .1           18        .3           .3
Nagaland                     2         -            -             2         -            -             1        -            _
Orissa                     189        5.8          4.2          290        6.5          4.8         350        9.8          7.5
PUnjab                     445       27.8         12.6          804      24.0         20.4         1235       48.8         40.3
Rajasthan                  397       11.9          8.7          457       17.5         12.1          856      29.3         18.1
Tamil Nadu                5209      170.1        130.1         6439      222.6        178.7         7635     290.7        227.2
Tripura                      9         .4           .1            2         -            -             4         -            -
Uttar Pradesh             1047       44.o         29.3         1569       51.6         37.6         2847       99.6         78.8
West Bengal               1192       48.6         38.3         1466       60.9         47.9         3031      144.4        110.2
Union Territories
Andaman & Nicobar            -         -            -            11         -            -            13         -            -
Arunachal Pradesh            -         -            -             -         -            -             -         - 
Chandigarh                  24         .8           .4           51        2.1          2.3           92        5.0'         4.5
Dadra & Nagar Haveli         3         .1           .1            2         .1          .1             3         .1           -
Delhi                     1034       64.6         54.7         1015       69.2         49,9         1367       84.4         70.9
Goa, Daman & Diu           198        8.5          7.7          205        8.7          7.4          195        9.8          9.3
(Pondicherry                 58        1.5           .9           86        3.1          2.5          149        4.8          3.8
(Mahe                         -         -            -             -        -             -             -         -
(Lakshadweep                  _         _            -             _         _
(Minicoy                      1         -            -             -         -            -             -         -
Mizoram                      -         -            -             -         -            -             -         -            -
Grand total   28646     1326.9        990.2        35658    1499.6        1170.6        45291     1971.7       1574.8
* Provisional
April 21, 1976



ORGANISATION CHART
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
I
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
_EXECUTIVr COMMITTEE                                       CHAIRMAN AND MANAGIN'G DIRECTOR                                                REGIONAL COMMITTEES
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR                                                                    EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR                             CHAIRMANS SECRETARIAT
II                                                                                                                    ( INC LU 01Ir   MANAGE MENT
DOMEc:c    r;M :C  -   lvING                                                         INTERNAT:3:.'At.L  '::AuCE .INGA   s                             s 
r"42P5. 7    deR   T-CiN,CAU  AZVISE                          GENCRAL MANAGER                                      GENERAL MANAGER                                   ECONQMIC  ADVISER
A      __                                          1           i. ,P LT
P!GfONAL             D AL~R    AREA 7) DGM               EX~PORT LOANS DEPARTMENT    DYGM                       PYGM                       DYGM
L:)A'.,' LEPARTMENT                &ACkWAR  M                                 ~~~~~~~(INCLLOING  EXP9ORT RE;INANCE)  I
_~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                 ---
LCAN DEpAro-z^4r  I :)y GMY                     DEVILOPM M,NT DPARrTeE tNr                 }                DYGM ' OV&wSts5 tsOEEA REAS DIR[CT LOANS DEPAGtMENr
L~AI4 -PMENT            D '                     STATE  FINANCIAL COJRPORATIONS  DY GM                                                                 AIISF
LOA- eLFAQREN    E                              AND  CTI4ER  STATE  LFEVL                                 IMPORT LOANS DEPARTMENT   } YGMp                       LEGAL ADISER
LOAN  _-IP MT.N r    v   D V                     IAN   TPR E- I S A TITJI N L------E                                                                              _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
LOAN  C9tARSnE~r v13_     c. c*tDINAT'ON DRPr RTMEN?    DY GM                      CREDIT tNTELLIGENCE             ;                 L   INTERNAL AUDITORJGl
LOAN   ,AMEI  VI               (;rl~~~~~~~.I.~~e  .~~,i AND bANWS) )INVESTI(ATION DEPARTMENT                               YG
TEflN*NCE   or INDUSTRIAL    DY GM                       ADMINISTRAriON , ACCOuNTS   J                         ADMINISTRATION.ACCOUNTS L  art
LCAI4E   DkPARTP.IEN?         TJ   -                         BUDGETING  73 ATETGEEA    AAE
v                                                                                              6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENERAL M"ArAER
COUNSELLING SERViCes &
_ . * r: $ ~ : 9 .tx *:Ir,.L - .; ,, *:I N e > ;'' ':T  '   PULBLIC  RELAriON5 73Et^PAYEIT).
: 'EA'_tSERS   : rErwliEs                  X srE 5TELS  3. AsLCYS                                                         
*X'~5 OS~   A.A..^r&SS,    t 5v^S-W-EC FlF2tS           2- ASTIIAS.  OR OREIS65                                                                 ADMINISTRAriONm           ECRETARY A.C
:5 E-151 ,_5 :t-;rcts  3sAf I                           ANE  WtRES                                                                      PERSONNEL,             4ttNEF ACCeCUNTtN'
AiL Fe_4O.C.,        ASL(14t I. I1CC  PA!CO.jCTS    SUGGIE    RC0                                                                         TRAINING  AND
ICARSON Pt5Lc;95ftt             LASTIC$                  S V m-NUFACTVI6 IE4 C                                                                        PREMISES
r CrTEI               CA[C4L PAcDUCTI  r               . EA.r, 5E TAL                                                                              DYGM
--CA PRDU(TS  GL Sj'& e, PA-AC CL'iAleS              NS STACS rAYG
LAC.ALI4A. Er6IICALS   ECA TC'OT*L            ' iNsLLARDS                               CHAIRMAN'S  SECRETARIAT
I*oA6QtELS,L'A LFa.I A'     rIsVTIPUFrs A tocts1                                            ( INCLUDING  tAANAGE_E'NT
LEA?-#  tCo:;e'S          a REFRACTORIES                                                       SERVICE D:vISION )
LI C,Ss FR' I      S I-Lk i -L.  q.ENr,fES, PuIS  EVE-
_ . . .:  -   .  . :;  F I c D: . ' S  laaA. E SE atAs / A  u DE S                                                 |
F ^:'    f -t' Ol'I.~C'S            EASES
6Ar^z                                                              , Ss~se>< ,NrSsTrlES  .............. TRE CHAIRMAN'S  SECREtARIAT  WILL CCNSISr OF Six
3!tIEC stl^4L lFr_t 5-RLtSZ                                                                                  SE.NIOR  OFFICERS  WHO  I.4LL  Se  WELL CO'4'ERSANIT
leaos:'.  leAr^e^aC"DRS                                                                                      WITH  THE  fUNNCTIONI NS  OF THE  OPERATIV9
A"rE IOF                                                                                          DivISIO NS  ArRD  WILL MONPIOR  OPFRATfONS  AS
*..IC~ C'l. 'AC4'"I8rY                       _______________________                              WELL& AS  HELP  EvOLVE  POLICIES  FOR Tr.E   O8l. 
A rv        A *   Cr           -r   -             V S       ORN eFPlFTMDNT \';                                 THE   N^AACE mrENT  SErrvSC  DI-vSION  WILL as
A '-m                                          LOAN Ec.I,'        VI                               RE SP cs5,.SLE   FOR  PREPARIN   PitEOGA* CE                             1
_ NU ? - P                                                                                                       NIILTSS MA  SlE --.Er   AUDCT, REFOrReE PLANNING.
s.t ^ * '     5           EAFL5rEo  70IC' By           DEPARTI4ENT  WILL                                 POLICY FORMULAT10N  APECTlG A. ACFIVITIES 0U
6~'NF 3^-   "U _ FEAtIO~ .   TlTrNEKT S         A AS      TAr_ CARE OF WEAkER                                 4   CR1   ESvI  Er; VL e-c    i,ATATIOM
713 S  s   rAR.S            TC'T'4.ES * CEMENTS. .NITS    DER lEmoNTORING  SYSTEM, PUBL^ IC  RELATIONS  AND
-ALrLI.E I,. eA'EA   T                     ICIPNACELOT aER   SLATED  ACTIV3TrRl
eF   i  C                    ..NL'S  UtZERE7,           UIS   NE
Ap=2, 1976 
.          .



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Summary statement showing progress in the utili-
zation of IDA Credit as on February 29. 1976
(Rs Million)
No. of                   Foreign
applica-     hxpee       currency
tions       component    component      SFC loan      IDBI Refinance
1. Proposals cleared by CGAC                       825             N.A.      272.4            N.A.             N.A.
2.  Proposals received by SFCs                      855           285.1      374.6           659.8              -
3. Proposals sanctioned by SFCs                    551            165.0      214.4           379.4 1
4. Proposals rejected/closed by SFCs                177            68.9       94.8           163.8              -
5. Proposals pending with SFCs                      127            51.2       65.4           116.6              -
6. Assistance disbursed by SFCs                      -             53.9       69.9           123.8              -
7. Refinance sanctioned by IDBI                     416           141.1      173.4           314.5           287.6
8.  Applications under consideration by IDBI         46             -          -               -              42.6
9.  Refinance disbursed by IDBI                      -              -          -               -               88.0
10.  Authorization granted by IDA                    373           117.0      147.3           264.4           241.5
(60% - 144.9 equivalent
to U$ 19.363 million)
11.  Authorization requested                          41            26.8       33.3            60.1            54.3
(60% - 32.6 equivalent
to Us$ 4.134 million)
12.. Withdrawals claimed                              -              -           -                              83.4
(60% - 50.0)
13. Applications pending clearance by CGAC            21             -          13.8            _
4pwil 21, 1976



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMIENT BANK OF INDIA
CLASSIFICATION OF REFINANCE ASSISTANCE SANCTIONED BY SIZE AND INDLE TRY UNDER
THE IDA LINE OF CREDIT AS OF JUYNE 30, 1975
(Rs Million)
Size of Assistance                  Number             Amount             % by Amount           % by Number
Less than Rs 100,000                  45                  3.3                  2.3                    17.2
Rs 100,000 - Rs 200,000               37                  5.9                  4.o                    14.2
Rs 200,000 - Rs 500,000               72                 25.7                 17.5                    27.6
Rs 500,000 - Rs 1,000,000             80                 57.6                 39.4                    20.7
Rs 1,000,000 - Rs 2,500,000           21                 37.0                 25.3                     8.0
Rs 2,500,000 - Rs 3,000,000            6                 16.9                 11.5                     2.3
Total                261                146.4                100.0                   100.0
Industry
Paper and paper products               8                  7.7                  5.2
Eigineering                           67                 37.6                 25.7
Electrical Machinery and
Appliances                            40                 23.1                 15.8
Chemicals                             19                 11.8                  8.1
Food Manufacturing                     7                  7.4                  5.6
Other                                120                 58.8                 40.2
Total                261                146.4                100.0
April 21, 1976



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
SFC-wise break-up of applications received/wanctioned/withdrawn, rejected and closed/
pending under IDA Credit as on February 29, 1976
(Rs million)                      RC - Rupee Component
FC -.Foreign Currency Compenent
Sr.             Applications Received    Applications Sanctioned Applications withdrawn!    Applications pending
No.    SFC                                                              rejected/closed          _
No.  RC   FC       TOTAL   No.  RC   FC    TOTAL    No.   RC   FC    TOTAL   No.  RC    FC            TOTAL
1.  APSFC     39  15.9  16.3    32.3    21   5.1  6.1    11.2    11    5.8  4.9    10.7    7    5.1   5.3            10.4
2.  AFC         7  5.4   5.0    10.3       4   3.8  3.4      7.2      1    1.2  0.1      1.2    2    o.4   1.5        1.9
3.  BSFC      10   6.7   4.7    11.4       8   2.5  2.1      4.6      1    3.0  2.1      5.0    1    1.2   0.6        1.8
4.  DFC       39   8.7   9.3    17.9    25   2.3  5.5        7.8      5     .9  1.0      1.9    9    5.4   2.7        8.2
5.  GSFC     106  31.4  53.0    84.4    58  19.9 32.0    51.9    30    7.1 13.3    20.5   18    4.4   7.7            12.1
6.  HFC       43  17.1  16.7    33.9    24   5.6  8.5    14.2    12    5.8  5.9    11.7    7    5.7   2.3             8.0
7.  HPFC        7   1.8   5.3      7.1     5   1.1  2.1      3.2      1    0.3  o.6      0.9    1    0.4   2.6        3.0
8.  JMKSFC      2   0.4   0.3      0.7     2   0.4  0.3      0.6      -     -    -        -      -     -      -        -
9.  KFC       12  10.9  13.5    24.4       5   5.5  6.6    12.1       1          0.5     0.5    6    5.4   6.5       11.8
10.  MPFC       16   4.0   7.5    11.5    10   2.2  3.2       5.4      5    1.5  1.7      3.2    1    0.4   2.6        3.0
11.  MSFC     226  55.6  97.0   152.6   139  30.8 49.9    80.7    58   14.4 35.3    49.6   29   10.4  11.9            22.3
12.  KSFC     111  28.5  41.9    70o,4    92  22.3 32.3    54.6        6    4.3  4.7      9.0   13    1.8   4.9        6.7
13.  OSFC        9   3.1   5.3      8.4     2   0.8  0.8      1.6      7    2.3  4.5      6.8    -      -      -        -
14.  PFC        11   2.9   7.9    10.9      8   1.6  3.5      5.1      2    0.3  4.0      4.3    1    1.0    .4        1.4
15.  RFC        22  17.9  12.7    30.6    10  10.4  6.1    16.4        9    6.1  5.1    U1.2    3    1.5   1.6          3.0
i6.  TTTC     120  46.h  43.8    90.2    85  36.0 32.6    68.7    15    6.1  8.6    14.8   20    4.3   7.5             11.8
17. UPFC       41  20.2  15.4    35.6    29   9.0 11.5    20.5    11    9.8  2.4    12.1    1    1.5   1.5              3.0
18.  WBFC       34   8.1  14.o    22.1    24   5.7  7.9    13.6        2    0.1  .2      o.4    8    2.3   5.8         8.1
TOTAL    855 285.1 369.6   654.8   551 165.0 214.4  379.4   177   68.9 94.8   163.8  127   51.2  65.4    116.6
April 21, 1976



AMNEX 6
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
SFC-wise break-up of assistance disbursed by SFCs
under IDA Credit upto February 29, 1976
(Re Million)
RC - Rupee Component
FC - Foreign Currency
Component
Sr.
No.                    SFC                             RC                FO             Total
1.             Andhra Pradesh                         1.5               3.4              4.9
2-             Assam                                  1.4               2.5              3.9
3.             Bihar                                  0.3               0.4              0.7
4-             Delhi                                  0.4               0.4              0.8
5-             Gujarat                                8.4               7.4             15.8
6.             Haryana                                0.8               0.4              1.2
7.             Himachal Pradesh                       0.5               0.9              1.4
8.             Jammu & Kashmir                        0.2               0.1              0.3
9.             Kerala                                 1.3               2.9              4.2
10.             Madhya Pradesh                         0.2               1.5              1.6
11.             Maharashtra                           10.3              15.6             26.0
12.              Karnataka                            13.9              22.6             36.5
13.             Orissa                                 0.5               -                0.5
14.             Punjab                                 0.3               1.0              1.4
15.             Rajasthan                              3.9               1.5              5.4
16.             Tamil Nadu                             8.2               4.7             12.9
17.             Uttar Pradesh                          1.4               3.4              4.8
18.             West Bengal                            0.4               1.2              1.6
Total              53.9              69.9            123.8
April 21, 1976



ANNEXr
INDUSTRIAL DEVELIOPMNT BANK CF INDIA
IDA Credit - Proposals cleared by CGAC Upto
meeting held on February 20, 1976
(Rs million)
No. of import
SFC                              licence applications              Value
1.  Andhra Pradesh                                  38                          14.1
2. Assam                                            11                           6.7
3.  Bihar                                           10                           2.4
4. Delhi                                            43                          12.3
5.  Gujarat                                         80                          28.8
6. Haryana                                          42                          13.1
7.  Himachal Pradesh                                 6                           4.6
8.  Jammu & Kashmir                                  3                           0.7
9.  Kerala                                          16                           8.7
10.  Madhya Pradesh                                  21                           7.2
11.  Maharashtra                                    223                          64.5
12.  Karnataka                                       86                          28.8
13.  Orissa                                            3                           .9
14.  Punjab                                          12                           5.3
15.  Rajasthan                                       14                           5.3
16.  Tamil Nadu                                     125                          39.0
17.  Uttar Pradesh                                    38                         13.0
18.  West Bengal                                     54                          17.0
Total                               825                        272.4
April 21, 1976



STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Financial and Economic Data on a Sanmpler. of IDBI Subprojects
Internal Rate of Return2/                       Domestic Resource Cost                      Capital Cost per Job
3/        28ve Irage-/                                                                   31s .9  pr sUS$___
Average-  =       28.8%                                   Rs 6.90 per US$ 1              Average-  = US$10,683 per Job
Distribution         No.   %              Distribution             No.   %               Distribution          No.   .
from 11% to 20%       17    25            below Rs 6.00            14    25.0            below US$ 5,000       18   28.6
from 21% to 30%       31    h6             from Rs 6.00 to                               Us$ 5,000 to
Rs 6.99            16    28.6             US$ 9,999            20   31.7
from 31% to 40%        9    13             from Rs 7.00 to
Rs 7.99            10    17.8           US$ 10,000 to
US$ 14,999           10   15.9
from 41% to 50%        4     6             from Rs 8.00 to
IL 8.99             7    12.5            US$ 15,000 to
US$ 19,999            7   11.1
from 51% to 60%        7    10             from Rs 9.00 to
Rs 9.99             7    12.5            US$ 20,000 to
US$ 24,999            1    1.6
from Rs 10 and above    2      3.6            US$ 25,000 and above  7   11.1
Total              68   100%                                    56   100.0%                                 63  100.0%
1/ The sample consists of 68 nA" subprojects submitted to IDA for approval.  It has been reduced when data were not
available.
2/ Following IDBI definition where Net cash flows = (Net Profit +  Depreciation  + Interest  + Tax) - (fixed assets
+ inventories).
3/ Unweighted average.
April 21, 1976



CREDIT ODJAANMTEE SCHEMEA
Statenent Showing th,e Position of Clais Applications from State isancial. Corporations
As of Jue  975
upto end of   April 1973   April 1971*  April 1975   Ulpto end of   Upto end of   April 1973  April 1974*  April 1975  Upto end of  Ujpto end of
Name of Corporation              March 1973         to           to           to         June 1975      March 1973         to          to           to        June 1975      Marsh 1973    Up to          Up to        Up io
(Comulative)  March 1974   March 1975i Jone 1975    (Comulative)  (ComuIative)  March i974  March 1975  June 1975   fCumulative)  (Cumulative)  March 1974  March 1975  June 1973
Nfo-.Mat.   No.-Amat.   No.    Ant. No.            . No.   AMat.   Nc.   AMat.  :No.               La.No    Amt.  No    at7S Ml   ! F-                    3-t    Irs-IEr
1.  Aodhra Peadesh-l              9    32-L0   i6   856.o    I        LU0                 P6  1,i8o.o   8    260.0--                     --                    8      260.0                  16   856.o  15   732.0  15   732.0
2.   Assesm                       ----                                                                   - 
3.   Nihar---                                                                                               
4.   Delhi---                                                                                            -       -
5.   Gujarat3    142.0    1                             3.0   24   654.o                  28    799.0   1       74.0--                   --                    1       74.0   2       68.o   1       3.0  24   654.0  27   725.0
6.   Haryana                      1    250.0    --1    250.0   -                                                    -----                                                      1     250.0   1   2,50.0   1   250.0   1   250.0
7.   Himachal Pradesh             -          -                                   -                -      -                                      -                                                                         
8.  JawTu ohKashnir               4     75.0    -              j    4o.o   4  278.0        9    393.0  4.    75.0    -1    4o.o                                5      115.0   ---                                       4   2r8.0
9.   Kerala                       -      - -           -      -          -        --
10.  Kfarnataka                   3     77.0    7   536.0    8   869.0                    18  1,482.0   -                1     2.0   1    U1.0   1    53.0   3         66.0o           77.0   9   612.o  16 1,470.0  15 i,417.0
11.  Madhya Pradesh               2     39.0    1   566.o    1   250.0   -         -       4    855.0   2       39.0--          -     -     -      -     -     2       39.0                   3.  566.0   1   250.0   2   816.0
12.  MaharashtraA/                2    397.0    -              3   531.0   3  488.0        8  i,416.o    1      62.0    1   i62.0   -                    -      2     224.0                          -      3   531.0   6 1,019.0
13. Orissa                        4    232.0 --         --         -- -           -        4    232.0 4    232.0                                 - -    4      232.0 -
14.  Punjab                       -       - ---                                                     --
15.  Rajasthan-                           ----                                                      --
it.  Uttar Pradesh                -              9 i,544. o    1   250.0           -      1   1,794.0            -          -         1   250.0          -      1     250.0   -                9 i,544.o   9 1,544. 0   9 i,544.o
17.  West NengalY'                6    481.0    2   i46.o0            -                    8    627.0   3       8i.0    1   221.0   -              -            4      302.0   2      384.0   1    63.0 -  -             2   226.0
iS.8  Tamil Hado                  -       ----                                                       --
Total                    34  2,016.0   36 3,651.0   39 2,595.0   7  766.0   lU   9,028.0  23    823.0    3   385.0   3   301.0   1    53.0  30   1,562.0   3                  779.0  38 3,894'.0  69 5,431.0  di 7,007.0
%/Includes applications withdrawn/or in respect of which amounts have heen reduced.                                                                                                                                                 F
April 21, 1976



STATE FWANCIAL CORPORATIONS                                        X 20
SUNKItIZUD LIST OF XAIN SHAOHLDSR  FOR ALL SFC.
AS B NARCH 31 1975
(Re RUlllon)
Other
State               1/         Pablic          Private                        Overall
State Financial Corporation       Govt.           I1lI           organization    Organization    Individuals    Total
Andhra Pradesh                    7.00              2.00           5.18                             0.82         15.00
(46.7 )          (].3.3)         (34.5 )            -              (5-5 )       ( 100%)
AssamN                            5.17              2.00           2.57              -               .26         10.00
(51-7)           ('0.0)          (25.7 )            -              (2.6 )      (100.0 )
Bihar                             4.00              1.50           3.50             1.00             -           10.00
(40.0 )          (15-0)          (35.0 )          (10.0 )            -         (100.0 )
Delhi                             4.00              3.73           2.23              -               .04         10.00
(40.0 )           (37.3)         (22.3 )             -             ( .4 )      (100.0 )
Oujarat                          18.90             17.0            4.00              .04             .06         40.00
(47.2 )          (142.5)        (10.0 )           ( .1)            (.2 )       (100.0)
Haryana                          14.1              12.32           3.43              -               .15         30.00
(47.0 )           (4:L.1)        (11.4 )             -             ( .5 )      (100-0)
Himachal Pradesh                 5.43               0.23            *39              .01             .04          6.1
(89.0 )            (3.8)         (6.4 )            (.2)            (.6 )       (100.0)
Janmu & Kashmir                   4.10              1..60          1.7               -              0.3           7.7
(53.2 )          (2(.8)          (22.1 )            -              (3.9 )      (100.0
Karnataka                         6.55              4.01           6.79             0.10            0-05         17.50
(37.4 )           (22'.9)        (38.8 )           (.6)            (.3 )       (100.0)
Kerala                            6.o4              1.57           2.18              -               .21         10.00
(60.4 )          (15.7)          (21.8 )             -             (2.1)       (100.0 )
Madhya Pradesh                    5.84              1.50           2.65              -               .01         10.00
(58.4 )           (15.0)         (26.5 )             -             ( .1 )      (100.0
Mlharashtra                      15.53             11.55           5.65             0.12            0.15         33.00
(h7.1 )          (35.0)          (17.1 )           ( .4 )          ( .4 )      (100.0 )
Orissa                           6.42              2.00            1.57              -               .01         10.00
(64.2 )           (20..0)        (15.7 )             -             ( .1 )      (100.0 )
Punjab                            6.75             5.,19           2.91             0.03            0.12         15.00
(45.0 )          (34.,6)         (19.4)            ( .2 )          ( .8 )      (100.0
Rajaathan                        3.62              2.00           3.12             0.91            0.35         10.00
(36.2 )          (20.00)         (31.2 )           (9.1 )          (3.5 )      (100.0 )
T.I.I.C.                        19.2                7.50           3.0              0.2              -           29.9
(64.2 )          (25.1)          (10.0 )           ( .7 )            -         (100.0
Uttar Pradebh                    18.04             5.50            2.71              -              0.25         26.50
(68.1 )          (20.8)          (10.2 )             -             (0.9 )      (100.0
lbst Bmgal                        5.67             64.5            4.31             0.24            0.28         15.00
(37.8 )          t30.;D)         (28.7 )           (1.6 )          (1.9 )      (100.0 )
Total         156.36            85.7            57.89             2.65            3.10        305.70
(51.2 )          (28.0)          (18.9 )           (0.9 )          (1.0 )      (100.0 )
1/ Including RBI's shareholdings, which have since been transferred to IDBI.
April 21, 1976



STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
SUMMARY OF SFCS STAFFING PATTERN AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1974
Changes                                                                Changes
March 73 - March 74                                   1/              March 74 - December 74                                  I
Staff on hand -/       Professional          Other               Staff on hand -           Professional          Other                  Staff on hand -
March 31, 1973        New       Termi-   New       Termi-        March 31, 1974          New       Termi-    New         Termi-         December 31. 1974
State Financial Corporations      Professional  Other   Recruit  nations  Recruit  nations          Professional Other       Recruit  nations   Recruit   nations        Professional  Other
Andhra  Pradesh                        23          62      10         3       19         6              30        75           11        5         14          6              36         83
Assam                                  13          22       4         -        5         1              17        26            1        -          3          3              18         26
Bihar                                  12          52       7         1       28         -              18        80            5        1         22          1              22        101
Delhi                                  30          44       1         1        1         2              30        43            4        -          4          3              34         44
Gujarat                                45        246       10         5       37         9              50       274            3        5         23        11               48        286
Haryana                                18          68       2         4       22         5              16        85           19        2         43        20               33        108
Himachal Pradesh                        6          14       1         -        -         2               7         12           5        -          8          4              12         16
Jaemu & Kashmir                        11          30       9         2       11         5              18         36           8        5         18         10              21         44
Karnataka                              23          64       6         -        6         1              29         69           7        2         15          1              34         83
Kerala                                 47          46       3         1        3         -              49        49           10        -         23          -              59         72
Madhya Pradesh                        n.a         n.a     n.a        n.a     n.a        n.a             22         21           22       -         12          -              44          33
Maharashtra                           204         376     n.a        n.e     n.a        n.a            249        319          n.a     n.a        n.&         n.a            249        319
Orissa                                 16          35       -         -        5         1              16         39           1        _        n.a         n.a             17         56
Punjab                                  6          69       5         1       32        18              10        83           1         -         32         13              21        102
Rajasthan                              26          36       4         3       11         7              27         40            7       1         22          7              33          55
T.I.I.C.                               16          76       -         -      n.a        n.a             16         88         n.a      n.a        n.a         n.a             45         134
Uttar Pradesh                         105          55      32         8       41        15             129         81           13       2         52          5             140         128
West Bengal                            17          23       7         3         1        -              21         24           10       4          8          3              27          29
2/
Total -/           618       1318      101        32      222        72             754       1444          137      27        299         86             893        1719
/   Including 'Junior Officers' in professional category.
/ Totals do not agree owing to non-availability of data in respect of some SFCs.
April 21, 1976



STATE FINfJGI U CORPORATIONS
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RS50J1CES AS OF PARCH 31 1975
(Re millions)
Loans
Share                                 State                                    TStal
State Financial Corporation        Capital    Reserves    RBI   MDBI    Govt.    Others    Bonds   Deposits    Resources
Andhra Pradesh                      15.00       16.03       -     56.22     -       22.26   107.50        4.52       221.53
Aueam                               10.00         5.19    3.85    9.98      -        2.95    28.70        7.75        68.42
Bihar                               10.00         7.70     6.00   46.69    1.39     27.27    46.34         -         145.39
Delhi                               10.00         5.24      -     30.6     1.6       5.65    26.60         -          79.69
Gujarat                             4o.oo        12.10    31.4   105.4    10.2      19.6    181.1        39.9        439.70
Haryana                             30.00        10.38     2.00  65.41      -        5.12    62.52         .26       175.69
Himachal Pradesh                     6.10         2.39     0.50   15.13    1.00      2.86      5.51        -          33.49
Jamu & Kashmir                        7.66        3.80     1.10   12.71     .67      1.97    13.75         -          41.66
Karnataka                           17.50        11.17      -     91.24    2.40     18.84    91.78       17.35        250.28
Kerala                              10.00         6.64     7.4    28.08    1.73     11.02    95-25        3.45       163.57
Madhya Pradesh                      10.00         6.92      -     24.27     -        4.47    56.14         .05       101.85
?aharashtra                         33.00       17.27 a/ 17.50   91.11      -        2.58   239.32       28.78       429.56
OrisBa                              10.00         4.20     2.00   10.06     -        6.93    37.75         -          70.94
Punjab                              15.00         7.84     3.50   56.22     -         7.65    39.04        .05        129,30
Rajasthan                           10.00         7.95      -     45.16     -        6.06    52.60         .03       121.80
T.I.I.C.                            29.96        20.59 b/   -     76.18    5.45     26.93   129.98      111.27       420.36
Uttar Pradesh                        54.00       78.51    17.50  375.16   27.19      58.10   181.99       7.00        799.45
West Bengal                        170.00 Q/    84.51    56.00  259.51      -       87.71   458.26         -        1115.99
Total        488.22      308.43   148.75 1399.13   51.63    317.97  1854.13      220.41       4788.67
a/  Including share application money (Re 3.40 million).
b/ Including undistributed earnings (Ra 1.16 million).
c/ Including Special Capital (Rs 20.0 million).
April 21, 1976



STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS FY73-FY75 AS OF MARCH 31, 1975
(Amounts in Rs million)
State Financial Corporations             Net Sanctionsl/           Disbursements                 Repayments                Outstanding
FY73    FY74    FY75     FY73    FY74      FY75     FY73      FY74     FY75     FY73      FY74     FY75
Andhra Pradesh                       71.5    85.37  102.63    33.20   41.06    57.42    13.17    19.17    20.49   141.10   163.31   200.23
Assam                                 4.94   14.37    8.89      4.01    6.60     7.64     2.87      3.36     2.93      4.80     5.29     5.90
Bihar                                43.8    61.7    75.8      18.6    29.7     34.8      3.1       4.3      3.0      66.7     92.6    124.4
Delhi                                14.3    16.1    18.9     12.6    13.1      15.1      4.6       6.2      5.6     58.8      63.3     74.1
Gujarat                             139.5   178.5   188.0     70.6    85.9    144.7      21.9      26.5     38.5    227.0    285.3    409.6
Haryana                              47.12   64.25   92.70    26.97   32.40    49.10       9.00    14.03    12.16   100.97   125.10   167.01
Himachal Pradesh                      9.79  114.00   20.87      6.14   10.81    11.11     2.79      4.11     4.12    16.12    23.06    30.05
Jammu & Kashmir                      11.9    14.8   13.9        8.7    11.0     18.5       8.8      8.4      7.7      25.1     27.7     39.5
Karnataka                            59.2    85.7   103.7      39.3    46.4     75.03    11.8      18.1     21.7    139.2    166.9    223.6
Kerala                               54-3    38.6    69.8     28.4    20.9      26.6       3.4      6.6      9.2    1014.5    122.0    147.2
Madhya Pradesh                       15.7    16.0    49.8       9.3    10.1      6.8       7.6      8.8      4.3      72.6     77.7      81.9
Maharashtra                          80.2   182.7   221.7      65.2    92.3     74.7      40.4     45.1      33.25   294.0    342.84   383.45
Orissa                               16.62   12.71   30.75      8.10    9.57    11.87     4.53      3.11     2.91    41.76    47.53    56.49
Punjab                               33.48   48.39   63.39    19.39   28.28    5o.41       7.89    11.95    11.23    66.49    81.44   120.84
Rajasthan                            35.95   29.48   68.66    18.78   21.80    28.34       5.67     7.17     7.24    80.63    93.80   113.19
T.I.I.C.                             45.6    57.7   177.4      23.6    41.0     82.4      22.8     28.6     25.8    279.0    313.7    376.7
Uttar Pradesh                        79.27   86.75   64.31    48.13   42.36    34.28    11.46    14.61       8.20   145.57   173.31   199.40
West Bengal                          26.12   23.99   44.52      8.04    7.17     9.56      899    8.05        4. i4    78.07    78.68    85.79
Total        789.29 1031.11 1415.72   449.06  550.45   738.36   190.77   238.76   222.47  1942.41  2283.56  2839.35
After cancellations, but including equity investments, debenture investments and guarantees.
April 21, 1976



STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Loans Sanctioned by Size of Unit and by State
State Financial Corporations (FY75)
(Rs Millions)
Medium Scale Sector                 Small Scale Sector
Percentage                           Percentage
State Financial Corporations   No.    Amount    No.      Amount    No.      Amount    No.    Amount
Andhra Pradesh                   54     48.68    10.0     49.0      487      50.65    90.0      51.0
Assam                             6      6.14    40.0     70.0        9       2.63              30.0
Bihar                           11      18.83     5.2     25.0      201      56.47    94.8      75.0
Delhi                             7      6.o8     5.6      19.6     119      24.92    94.4      80.4
Gujarat                          47     65.44     4.0     32.0   1,119      139.06    96.0      68.o
Haryana                          93     44.5     27.7     48.0      243      48.2     72.3      52.0
Himachal Pradesh                  9     12.47     6.4     41.2      131      17.77    93.6      58.8
Jammu & Kashmir                  6       2.2      2.3     10.2      256      19.3     97.7      89.8
Karnataka                        37     51.93    11.8     50.0      278      51.79    88.2      50.0
Kerala                           39     27.23    10.9     39.0      318      42.57    89.1      61.0
Madhya Pradesh                    8     27.39    12.5     55.0       56      22.41    87.5      45.0
Maharashtra                      80    126.37    10.0     57.0      721      95.33    90.0      43.0
Orissa                           19      9.18     9.1     30.0      191      21.42    90.9      70.0
Punjab                           46     31.31     7.9     31.0      534      69.69    92.1      69.0
Rajasthan                        36     35.29    11.2     50.0      286      35.3     88.8      50.0
Tamil Nadu                       92    101.25    19.9     66.0      370      52.15    80.1      34.0
Uttar Pradesh                    56     32.43    13.8     55.0      349      31-44    86.2      45.0
West Bengal                      22     31.86    24.2      74.0      69      11.19    75.8      26.0
Total             668    684,58    10.4      46.4   5,737      792.29    89.6     53.6
April 21, 1976
*                                                                      0 e   I



STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Analysis of Arrears as of March 31. 1975
(Rs nillion)z'
Total Principal Outstanding   Principal and Interest       (1) Aa S of Total Loans       (2) As % of Total Loan.
State Financial Corporations       of leam in Arrears               in Arrears                   OuttadOuE
March   March   Narch       March   March   March        Mab        rch Nmrob   Marc
1973    1974    1975        1973    1974    1975         1973    197k      1975        fl73     19     2
Andhra Pradesh                   32.11    28.21    34.idi"    5.78    4.64      6.18k/   23.70   17.83    17.7 '        4.26    2.93      3.1 V
Assam                            22.45    22.07kZ  33.5      14.39   16.333/  17.53       58.62    56.12/  56.00       37.57    41.52         36.7
Bihar                           18.89    23.0-04   51.62V     5.35    6.432"  10.73 '   32.04    33.9, 1  44.00V        9.06     9.47   9.15 
Delhi                           15.27    n.a.   20.8 V        3.25    n.a.    6.5 "    27.37    n.a.    29.2            5.82     n.a.    9.1
Gujarat                          n.a.    n.a.   141.14        n.a.    n.a.    41.12 V      n.a.     n.a.   40.9         n.a.    n.a.    11.6 V
Hsryana                          36.91    39.89    57.35V     9.56     7.17    12.334    37.14    32.31    38.9"'        9.62     5.81     8.*
Himachal Pradesh                 6.47     8.45     6.76W        .97    1.32     1.64W     40.09    36.62    25.86V       6.02     5.7,4    6.2
Jau & Kashmir                    5.09     5.26?/ 13.30W/    1 .42!  1 .42"   2.01-V    20.1    20.5 3/ 39.3  /          5.5      5.6 &   6.0 V
Karnataka                       43.97    n.a.    73.90W    13.02       n.a.   19.33W      35.91     n.-.    37.4*I/   10.63      n.a.    9.78k/
Kerala                           42.80   58.81    78.78W       7.80    14.54    20.22-4/   41.78   49.17    59.49k/    7.61    12.15    15.2*
Kadhya Pradeh                    26.9    16.8    31.2 /    11.5         9.6    13.6  /    37.12    21.68    38.09/    15.77    12.00    16.60b/
Maharashtra                     117.68   131.54   132.39k/   25.02    28.27    28.95V    25.02    28.27    28.98V 8.66            8.37     7.64V
Orissa                           15.98    20.639/  28.57k/    7.12     8.41r/ 12.76V    42.10   49.7k2-/ 58.80W    18.76    20.3hz"  26.26W/
Punjab                           12.26    16.04    21.1*      2.39     2.21     2.2OW    18.80    20.5    20.0/    3.67           2.81     2.134/
Rajasthan                        10.98    10.79-/ 15.87        1.61     2.313'   8.55     314.69    13JW/  15.00       .2.15      2.883'   8.00
Tamil Nada                       97.44    96.72    98.11/   50.20    48.63    46.910/    57.17    52.29    46.3 J/    29.1&5   26.29    21.5 2/
Uttar Pradesh                    65.01    n.a.   120.564       8.53    n.m.    28.56W   147.68    n.a.       61.33k'     6.24    n.a.    14.50W
West Bengal                      42.63   54.962/  53.62       19.98   17.7221  19.76       58.5    71.2 2/ 61.9         2k.2    25.7    23.0
1x helude suit-filed cases
.J An Ot Ssetber 1973
As of Septmber 1974
As of December 1974
April 21, 1976



SIJIdMARY OF COOPERATIVE OPERATIONAL RATIOS
STATE Ff882135 QORFYRATI2OS                            ANDHRA8 P035S0                ASSAM                 "H.AR                   DELIP                GUJARAT7                 HAFYANA             IPSMACHAL P85D15SF      qnAs  & 5831*43              68AR8TA2A
FY73   FY74   FY75'    P73   FY74   055        FY79   074   Ff75    PY73   fY74   FY75    FY7 3   FY74   FY75    FY73   FY74   FY75    FY79   FY74   FY75    FY73   FY74   FY75    FY73   FY74   FY75
Title of Opevotion.1 Bathos
A.  Ratios of Pfnfit.btlity
.FRof it bf-for   ao and prcci-io
an 9 of aegetotal assets                      3.057    4.i    4.6      2.3    2.1    o,4    2.26   2.24    4.1.    3.76   3.6B5   4.46        1.4    1.6    1.8    2.87   3.37   3.16    4.54   3.97   4.32           4.0    4.2    4.3    2.14   2.35   2.50
2 . Frofit after tax as    f overage
tots.a no-to                                  L.76    3.1    3,I.      1.1    I .5    0.2    1.37   1.41    2.68   1.90   2.17   2.88         2.8    0.9    1.2    1.54   1. 92   1.06    2.40   2.09   2.67          2.2    2.2    2.7    1.15   1.26   1.53
3 . FofIt after tan s     of yea-sod
sh-r  osFite).                               17.34   21.0   30.2       6.2    6.7    1.7    8.98  03.70   33.47  13.24  13.47  21.0o2         5.4    7.2   11.1   14.65,  15.43  10.93    4.31   7.90  13.12          7.5    3.5   12.5  1lo86  14.5   16.7
F3.  RtoofStruot-s
4  Ns-curent  onvethooldObt/
eqoIty                                       4.98:1  5.37:1 5.35:1   2.30   3.02  '3.3).   4.31   4.74    5.64  3.61:1 3.84:1 3.36:1    5.6:1  7.0:1  7.3:15.6:  4.87:1 3.24:1  1.30   2.12   2.6i                    1.7:1  1.7:1  2.5:1  5.9    6.6    7.3
5. D0664  -erloochrgo                            1.03    1.67  1.4        2.41:  2.76:1 1.0:1  0.79   iCY7    4.21. 1.6:140:1 1.05:2    1.1:2  1.1:5  1.7:1. 1.12:1 1.L2:1 0.88:1  0.19   1.65   1.51                    1.9:1  4.7:1  0?.8:1  1.37   i.48   0.36
P. 8aRt2..2r2WL  (f groath oP
tots),.. asts  9                             12.3    16.7   t80.       3.7   19.3      9.3  33.27  79.76   21.4  07.05  13.91  20.54         y8.8   27.1   41.7   24.12  29.23  32.2    18.3   52.8   27.7            6.4    5.2   36.0   20.6   21.4   31.9
D.  Flonasta.  at
7. Isc.-  frn FaTs Loan  as 9 of
overge tens  oo portfolio                     8.57    8.3    9.4       7.4    7.1      6~.7   7.61   8.1oc   9.32  9.53   9.94  10.90         0.3    8.4    9.2    9.17   9.41   9.75   10.26  10.14  10.62           9.6    9.7   10.5    8.60   8.36   SIco
8. Cos.t of t-s  856t as   of
overage ten  debt                             5.97    6.90~  6.15    5,4    5,2        6.1   5.50   5.1       5.2 _5  561   5.8    .66        5.4    5.4    6.0    5.69   5.6o   5.75    5.Ri   5.66   5.62           6.2    5.1    6.1    5.7    5.5    5.9
9. Eqoity Inane (inrdiodg -5t cait-
gs)no bnfoce tao) an 9 of aveen
eqOity portfolio                             17.52   20.0   24.2       sn0n ..c. n.                           n.t.          o. na               .8    0.9    3.2    na        a       n       a       a        s        a       a      ..     -      1.0    2.6,
E. Costs
1.Fissnoiji cost  no9f averge
total asoto                                   4.42    4.47   4.73    3.7   3.7         u.5   3.96   3.75    3.65   4.51   4.29  4.29          4.5    4.5    5.0       4.62  4.sv   4.37    3.03   3.34   9.61           3.6    3.0    3.9    4.7    4.6   4.86
l1. Adtis.t-atlve cotso   of
average total as-ts                             .53     .61    .74       -      .       -    1.o7   LA0       0.04   i.i8   1.55  5.54         1.6    2.2    1.3      O.96  0.97    1.21    1.94   1.96   2.32          1.3    2.6    1.7       .03    .90 .9
F.  Reseve
PIns Fr-isioO  s  9-  of pear end portfolio
(loans, guaratees and soulty poetfolic)   6.1         6.9    7.9       9.7   8.1       7.9    5.21   4.97   6. 05   3.49   5.28   7.07          3.0   3.0      3.1    5.35   5.77  6.29    7.06    6.94  7.95           9.0   10.5    9.6    5.2    4,7   4.6
13. Reserves for bad debts an  of year sad
loan and eqoity Fortfolio                     0.77    2.9    1.08    1.3   1.2         1.1    1.25   1.33   1.76   0.4S   0.57   o.66           o.6   0.5      0.4    0.59   0.87  0.71    0.41    o.66  0.75           0.4    0.15   0.13    .67    .6    .48
G.  SRh-56P1ts.1
14T03sB 68k 4   s 9 of Far vaos                  159      177    207       134,  149        152   135   145    177    122.   133,    152.          121    120    130    1.53.   147.   134.        119    1cR   139        131.   137.   148.   146    147   157
15. DilsdO        f For ca- ofshr
capital                                      3.5      3.5    3.5       3.5   3.5       0.4   3.5   3.5    3.5        2.31    3.62   3.62       2.9    3.5    3.5    4.4    3.3    2.1           3        3     3         4.3    4.3    4.3  3.R    3.8   3.4
IE. Dividend an 9f  0t earings
(Pay sot soth.)                             20.2    ia.1   ill6       57.7  52.0      23.5  36.98 25.55   9.87   22.56   26.87  17.22    55.4   36.9   29.    i6.i   12.3   12.6    47.52   38.45  22.88                44.2   29.4   19.9 35.2   26.4  19.42



STATE' FIIIARC IAL CoORPRATIONS                        MAIA                 MADSHYA FMERSH         MAHA2801fTRA               021021                   PUNJAB2                FJA383 SR  Y0 . I. I. C.                        UTfAR PRADSHR            WEST  BENGAL
Title of Opara tioo1 Raise                      FY73    Mv4   FY75        FY73   FY74   P075  PY73   FY74  FY75          FY73   FY74  FY75       FY73    FY74   FY75   FY73   FY74   FY7         FM7   FY74  FY75          FY73    FY74    FY5    PY73   FY74  FY75,
A.  Ratios of Fofitability
1. Profit befor  tax asd Br...isi-i
as % Of overge total assts              1.32    i,48   2.90       2.5      2.8    2.0   0.05   1.50   1.8        2.23   1.92  2.Ll       2.81    3.20   3.74   2.95   3.04   3.60    0.4    0.9   1.0              2.97    2.87    3.86    2.25   1.83  2.32
2. Profit after tao a%of averge
total, assts                            0.64    0.75   1.91       1.1      1.2    1.2   0.5    0.83  11.0        1.37   1.11  1.23        1.59    1.81   2.40   1.20   1.63   2.21    0.2    0.9   0.9             1.64    t.62    2.49    1. 28   i.26  1.80
3. Profit after tao a      Of yea-end
share oapital                           6.57    9.33  28.46    10.3    11.5   11.8   5. 49   9.80  12.7          6.95   6.32  8. 09    14.29   19.20  17.23   9.63  15.87  25.67    2.0   10.5  12.27              1.53   13.10   20.79    7.23   7.47  9.60
atio-  of Ot-otur
4. No-ourreat ovstinldebt!
equity                                  7.29    8.24   8.66       4.8      4.8    4.8   7.9    8.o    6.5        2.64:1 3.1:1 3.51:1   4.62:1 5.191:1 4.3:1  4.44   5.06   5.34    6.8:1 6.2:1   8.2:1    4.30:1  4.76:1  4.71:1  3.73   4.31  5.16
5. Debt sroei.. arhge                       1.56    0.77   1.36       1.6      1.4:i  1.2:1 ii.64  0.07   1.17    1.02   0.73  1.32          1.87:1 i.86:1  1.22:1  .67    .87   1. 43    o.67:1 0.55:1 0.78:1   1.46:1  1.13:1  0.87:i  1.04   0.83  0.64
C.. .Avo9g.Rt, of.0rostb           _b 
total .. asots  9                      30.12   15.15  22.06        5.2    11.1    1.4  113.4   9.5   20.8    12.11l  12.72 17.18    18.70   17.43   50.72  24.88  21.10  23.58   7.3               2.3  32.8       34.30   19.40  23.51   (1.25) ii.40 18.9
D.  Fi-aioa  Ma-gias
7. Iara-  fr-  Tes- on L    as 9 of
oveag  test loa  2ortfolio              7.70    7.89   9.60       8.7      8.4    8.0   8.5    8.78   9.0         9.36   9.03  8.97       9.10    9.30   9.86   9.57   9.45   10.37   5.1    6.6   3.1             8.8o    8.75    10.33   7.69   7.12  7.65
8. Cost of ters  debt a8of
averge ten  debt                        5.71    5.30   5.93       5.6      5.5    5.5   5.80   5.70   5.8o    5.70   5.75  5.61           5.57    5.45   5.81   6.12   5.64   5.74    4.7    6.2   5.9             5.53    5.38    5.68    5.37   5.07  4.02
9. Egoity Io-a  (iooLodiag net sapito.1
gains befor  tan) a9of
eqoity portfolio                        a..a.    10.30  6.44       1.5    21.6    4.5    -        -       -       6.35   5.32 16.43       2.56    2.64   2.68   a.. aa            ..      3.7    5.6   3.0          o..      a.      aa.       sa     a.. a.
E. Costs
10. f-inanla  osats so9f avirge
total, assts                            4.72    4.87   4.92        4.4     4.L    4.3   4.87   4.80   4.87    3.73   3.97  4.oi           4.10o   4.21   4.51   4.65   4.39   4.5o    3.4    4.5   4.4              3.93    3.94    4.22    3.71   3.50  2.82
11. Adnieltrativ-    -t as 9  f
aeaetotal, assts                    1.15    1.29   1.130      0.9      0.8    1.1   0.11   i.8O   2.14    1.07   1.16  i.4i           1.20    1.20   1.43    .92   1.64   1.18    0.5    0.0   0.9             1.29    i.56    1.84    o.94   i.o6  0.94
10  eevs(iaslodieg reti-d -ariaga
plea pr-visi-  as 9 of y-a  sad portfolio
(loan, g-aratees and eqoitys
portfolio)                              3.604    3.29   4.52      6.0      7.0    7.5   2.81   0.95   3.90    8.46   8.10  7.62          6.56    6.80   6.49   5.67   5.98   7.15    5.0    5.6   5.2              3.79    4.31    5.56    7.51   9.26  9.61
13. Reseve  for bad debts a        of Year e-d
loa  and eqaitys portfolio               0.00    0.00   0.47       0.7      0.9    1.0   0.74   0.68   0.70    i.88   1.70  1.51          1.47    1.43   1.21    .76    .63    .70    1.1    1.0   1.0              0.22    0.32    0.54    0.19   0.37  0.46
FW52bi vlea9ofarvle                        10      14      i6         475 158.4  169.2 1-29    134    142           134.114137.68 142.0   158.1   174.6  152.6  145    156    183            ibs4   15    163        153       14.7147.38  141    145   1,56
1757TDivuoad a9of Bar valu  share
-apita.1                              3.5      3.5    3.5        3.5     3.5    3.5 3 1/2.5  3 W2.5 3 1/0 .5  3.75   3.75  3.72         3.49    3.49   2.61   3.5    3.5    3.5          2.3   '3. 0   3.0        3.5      3.5      3.5      3.5    3.5   3.5
16.  Dividend  s*of set earisgs
(Pay-oat ratio)                      533.27   37.51  12.29    i6.6    t4.2   18.9  59.3   40.7   26.3    53.96  59.33 46.35    04.4    18.19  15.13  36.31  02.05  13.65  112.0   28.6  24.5                     27.35   26.73   16.88   48.17  46.87 36.5
APril 01, 1974



ANNEX 17
STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Second Credit
(US$ million)
1976     October - December                 1.6
Sub-total                 1.6
1977     January - March                    1.9
April - June                       2.2
July - September                   3.1
October - December                 3.8
Sub-total                11.0
1978     January - March                     4.o
April - June                       4.2
July - September                   4.0
October - December                  _
Sub-total                15.7
1979     January - March                     3.0
April - June                        2.0
July - September                   2.0
October - December                 2.0
Sub-total                 9.0
1980     January - March                    1.0
April - June                       0.7
July - September                   o.6
October - December                 o.4
Sub-total                 2.7
Total               40.0
April 21, 1976



