Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1837-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INDIA
FOR A SECOND LINE OF CREDIT
TO THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
FOR THE STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
May 6, 1976
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at May 4, 1976)
Rs 1.00      =    Paise 100
US$1.00      =    Rs 8.97
Rs 1.00      =    US$0.1115
Rs 1 million =    US$111,500
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then, it
has been fixed relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As these currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/
Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in the appraisal report were made at US$1 to Rs 8, which
was the short-term average at the time of appraisal.)
UNUSUAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI   - Government of India
ICICI - Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI - Industrial'Development Bank of India
IFCI - Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IFD   - Industrial Finance Department
IIG   - Inter-Institutional Group
NCAER - National Council of Applied Economic Research
NSIC - National Small Industries Corporation
RBI   - Reserve Bank of India
SFC   - State Financial Corporation
SIDA - Swedish International Development Authority
SSIC - Small-Scale Industrial Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA FOR A SECOND LINE OF
CREDIT TO THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA FOR THE
STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$40 million, to help finance projects of
the small-and medium-scale industrial sector. The terms of the loan would be
an interest rate of 8-1/2% per annum and repayment over 15 years, commencing
after 3 years of grace. The Government of India (GOI) would relend the
proceeds of the loan to the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) at
7-3/4% annual interest, less 1/4% for prompt repayment, to be repaid within
a period of 15 years (after a grace period of 3 years). The funds would be
relent by IDBI to the State Financial Corporations (SFCs) at not less than
8% and 8-3/4%, depending on the type of borrower, and lent to SFC borrowers
at not less than 11-1/2% and 12%, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 states with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur almost two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.        Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly
even decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of
the urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government has initiated
a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is hope for an upturn in the growth rate of the economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors in 1975/76 was a bumper
harvest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Food-
grain production last year, estimated at around 114 million tons, exceeded
the previous record of 1970/71 by 6%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also
reached new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-
industries. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of
infrastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent
in the past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production
of coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76.
Finally, the increased supply of agricultural and industrial products and of
services, together with the demand restraint imposed by the Government since
mid-1974, put a stop to inflation. In 1974/75 the Wholesale Price Index had
risen by 23%; in 1975/76 it remained unchanged.
8.        On the balance of payments front in 1975/76, some of the basic
problems of the previous two years remained. In particular, the terms of
trade, which had deteriorated significantly over the previous two years, did
not improve and most probably moved even further against India. Nevertheless,
there were a number of encouraging developments. Firstly, the build-up of
foodgrain stocks during the year will provide a buffer against the impact of



- 3 -
a future crop failure on the balance of payments. Secondly, although export
earnings rose only 6%, with high volume growth being offset by falling prices,
import growth was also less than expected. The value of petroleum imports
was stabilized despite price increases during the year, and steel imports
were substantially reduced due to increased domestic production. As a result,
the value of India's imports rose only 2% during 1975/76 and the trade deficit
was reduced to US$1.45 billion, US$150 million less than in 1974/75. Thirdly,
the net transfer of aid was 20% higher than in 1974/75 and India also received
substantial inflows of private remittances from abroad. As a result of these
favorable developments, India was able to add over $870 million to foreign
exchange reserves. These reserves will give India added flexibility in ad-
justing to a higher rate of economic growth during 1976/77.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The-1976/77 Budget proposes a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduces new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last
year, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.    The Budget
also stresses the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy.  Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the



- 4 -
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was headed for its own crisis before
the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil prices,
coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power shortages -
caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor monsoons - led
to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of existing facilities
and to a much higher priority for investments in the energy sector. The
effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are now starting to be
felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each of the last two
years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and restrictions have
been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and natural gas have
improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High field. Crude pro-
duction from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in 1976/77 and to
reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this basis, petro-
leum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as increased crude
production and expanded refinery output more than offset increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has
occurred. These are important both because they are likely to lead to a
better utilization of current export potential and as an indication of the
willingness to make policy adjustments, when necessary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of about 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 19% in 1975/76.   Provided the real growth of exports remains at



about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three
major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports last year. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials), and consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,436 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellations), respectively. Of these amounts, US$743 million has been
repaid, and US$1,825.9 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$51.8
million, of which US$10.2 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$27.1 million, US$20.6 million
represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC opera-
tions as of March 31, 1976 is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer
sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been
active in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunica-
tions, and railways. Family planning, education, water supply development,
and urban investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



- 6 -
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural production through the
provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-farm investments, com-
mand area development of existing irrigation schemes, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next years.
Special emphasis will be given to projects benefiting small farmers. Lend-
ing in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on
energy-related projects. Credits for power and railways have high priority
in this context.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within
the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import com-
ponent of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
20.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on
concessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of March
31, 1976, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$711 million, of
which US$275 million remained to be disbursed, thus leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$436 million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 41%, 24% and
30%, respectively, in 1974/75, and the contribution of the Bank Group is
expected to continue growing. On March 31, 1975, India's outstanding and
disbursed external public debt was US$11.8 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 24%. It is likely to grow, but not very rapidly. Because Bank
Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt
service to the Bank Group will also rise slowly. In 1974/75, about 14% of
India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



- 7 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Historical Performance
22.       India's industrial output has grown on average by little more than
3% per annum since 1965, which is almost the same growth as that of the net
national product. Both demand and supply factors have constrained the
sector's expansion. Of the four possible engines of growth on the side of
demand -- namely exports, import substitution, derived demand from the
growth of other major sectors, and government investment -- all have been
weak. Import substitution, where reasonably simple, was virtually complete
by the middle 60's; exports have not yet been a major factor; the relatively
slow trend growth rate of agriculture of little more than 2% per annum has
restricted growth in demand for consumer goods; and, finally, government
real investment has remained stagnant. Industrial growth has also been
periodically constrained by transport bottlenecks and by shortages of power,
which were especially severe in 1973 and 1974, and of raw materials such as
steel, other metals, and agricultural inputs like cotton. Since these raw
materials are tradeable goods, the latter shortages are merely a specific
manifestation of the scarcity of foreign exchange.
23.       The Government dominates production in steel, heavy plant and
machinery, mining, power generation, and increasingly in aluminum, ferro-
alloys, machine tools, fertilizers, and other "basic" industries. Conse-
quently, according to the 1970 Annual Survey of Industry, the public sector
accounted for 60% of productive capacity. However, it generated only 22% of
value added. This relationship is largely the result of low capacity utili-
zation, itself partly caused by poor management. However, low capacity
utilization has also been a problem in the private sector, resulting mainly
from supply shortages and to a certain extent from lack of demand, especial-
ly for capital goods.
24.       There have been shifts in the structure of industrial production,
in accordance with the aims of industrial strategy. In 1960, 40% of output
was of textiles and processed foods. This had fallen to 25% by 1970. Instead
"basic industries", engineering goods and chemicals, had risen to 40%.
However, since 1965 the structural change has been quite slow, and there has
even been a decline in the share of capital goods in industrial production.
Industrial Policy
25.       The Government has placed emphasis on rapid industrialization as
the key to development. Its goals in industrial policy have included both
greater equality in asset-holding and national self-sufficiency. The aim of
inhibiting concentration of economic power has been approached through
expanded public ownership, restrictions on the growth of "large houses" and
"dominant undertakings", reservation of many products to the small-scale
sector as well as special assistance to it, and support for development in
backward regions. The aim of self-sufficiency has largely manifested itself



- 8 -
in the pursuit of import substitution, as well as restrictions on foreign-
owned firms and other forms of foreign involvement In industry.
26.       The last decade must be regarded as a disappointment, as far as
the achievement of the key aim of rapid growth is concerned. While there has
been some progress towards the other goals, It is far from evident that, in a
wider context, such progress has been beneficial to the economy. Import sub-
stitution was clearly a major and successful spur to growth until the middle
1960s, but since then the high-cost, inefficient industries that have been
created have acted as a major impediment to an expansion of exports.    Since
the latter offers one of the few means of accelerating growth, this is a
significant cost. The emphasis on independence from outside technology, when
combined with fragmentation of industry and consequent limitations on domestic
product development, has frequently resulted in the production of outmoded
industrial goods. Although such goods may often be appropriate for Indian
circumstances, they are difficult to export. Furthermore, it is not clear
that the control of large houses and the encouragement of the small-scale
sector have had the intended favorable effects on income distribution.
27.       The main instruments of industrial policy have been central licen-
sing of investment and imports, as well as physical allocation of "scarce"
domestically produced raw materials, and controls on industrial prices.
This system has itself tended to conflict with other aims, especially that
of curbs on economic concentration, since large firms are much better able
to bear the overhead costs of dealing with a centralized bureaucracy. Con-
trols have also restricted the ability of firms to respond to changed oppor-
tunities, especially in overseas markets, and thus hampered exports. The
extent of excess capacity indicates that the planning supposed to underlie
the industrial licensing system has been far from fully successful. Finally,
price controls appear to have had a harmful effect on investment and moderni-
zation in such crucial industries as cotton textiles, sugar, and cement.
Recent Performance
28.       In 1973/74 industry grew by 1%, and in 1974/75 growth was 2.5%.
Through these years, major constraints appear to have been power and raw
material supplies. However, the situation changed rather dramatically
during 1975, and lack of demand is currently the more serious problem. The
improvement in supply of inputs has been partly the result of large increases
in the output of key public industries, especially steel and coal. Output of
finished steel rose from 4.5 million tons in 1973/74 to 4.9 million tons, or
by 10%, in 1974/75 and is expected to rise by at least a further 1 million
tons in 1975/ 76. After years of stagnation, coal output rose by 13.5% in
1974/75, or by about 10 million tons, and is expected to rise by a further
10 million tons in 1975/76. (This improvement in performance has, in fact,
been a feature of quite a large number of public sector enterprises.) The
rise in production of coal, combined with good rains, has led to increases
in power generation, which are expected to be of the order of 20% in 1975/76.
Finally, increased aid disbursements, as well as improved export performance
have been the main factors in reducing the foreign exchange constraint, as
perceived by the Government, and have allowed a marked liberalization of
import controls.



- 9 -
29.       Thus, major constraints on supply have been reduced or removed,
and industrial growth for 1975/76 should reach 4 to 5%. While a major ex-
pansion of intermediate output has occurred, there has been a fall in the
domestic demand for many industrial goods. However, this conjunction has at
least had a positive effect on exports, especially of steel, which will be
about one million tons. The weak domestic demand has been partly the result
of a tight credit policy motivated by the overwhelming desire to curb infla-
tion. Commercial credit during the first part of 1975/76 grew by only 2%.
In addition, the very success of the counter-inflationary policy has increased
enormously the real cost of holding inventories and this, in combination with
action against "smugglers, hoarders, and black-marketeers", appears to have
led to a marked fall in holding of stocks. At the same time, there has been
a lag between increased agricultural income and a rise in consumer demand.
Export demand has been weak and in some sectors, such as jute and cotton tex-
tiles, disastrously so. Finally, increased real public sector development
expenditures have not yet significantly affected the capital goods sector,
and private investment demand continues to be in the doldrums. In 1976/77
increased consumer demand, largely the delayed result of increased agricul-
tural incomes of the previous year, but also spurred by tax reductions in
the budget, and increased public development expenditure, combined with the
easy availability of raw materials, should lead to accelerated growth.
Recent Changes in Policy and Procedures
30.       In the face of poor industrial performance and much underutilized
or inefficiently utilized capacity, the Government has been reconsidering
parts of its strategy. It is increasingly acknowledged that existing capa-
city must be utilized more efficiently; that public sector enterprises
should be expected to meet more commercially oriented criteria for output,
price, and profitability; and that with the slow growth of the domestic eco-
nomy, industry can only expand at a reasonable rate through exporting.
31.       The process of revising policy has been taking place for some
time, but the first discernible signs emerged in 1972. Subsequently, the
Government has introduced measures to simplify procedures and to introduce
more flexibility. By now, licensing of new capacity and of expansion for
exports is freely available; in the case of enterprises belonging to large
industrial houses and foreign majority companies, export obligations are
set. For the domestic market, licenses are also freely available, except
for industries reserved for the small-scale sector, and except for the large
industrial houses and foreign majority companies which are confined to a
priority list of industries, which has, in fact, been fairly broadly defined.
Processing time for licenses has been very much reduced so that the obstacle
posed by licensing procedures has been virtually eliminated for all except
the large houses and foreign majority companies, and even for them there are
fewer hurdles. By the beginning of 1975, price control had been lifted from
all finished manufactures. Certain intermediate products are still subject
to formal price controls largely as a result of the fact that the Government
is the main producer. Distribution control on industrial materials has been
lifted for almost all items.



- 10 -
32.       These various changes mark a significant effort on the part of the
Government, but the major problems of the sector remain. In summary, many
public sector undertakings still have a long way to go before they become
efficient producers. The private sector will be the main source of exports.
Thus, changes to improve competitiveness will be vital. These may require
adjustment in policies that lead to industrial fragmentation and inadequate
expansion of efficient firms. The dilemma before the Government is to for-
mulate its strategy in a way that is consistent with its social goals.
The Role of the Small-Scale Sector
33.       GOI has placed considerable emphasis on promoting the small-scale
sector 1/, to increase employment 2/, income distribution, and regional
development.
34.       The small-scale industrial sector in India was the subject of a
Bank study in 1971 in cooperation with the Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA) and the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER)
of India. Report No. SA-33a, entitled "Small Scale Industry in India" and
dated May 22, 1972, summarized the study's findings. This report described
the sector and its sources of financing, made an assessment of its economic
importance in relation to the total industrial sector and attempted to eva-
luate the policy framework for the small-scale sector. Most of the data
pertaining to small-scale industries are based on the Annual Survey of
Industry (1970), which is now considered to be unreliable.
35.       GOI is presently conducting a census of the small-scale sector, the
results of which should be available in the middle of 1976. This is of cri-
tical importance since the information available at present on the size,
structure, growth and economic efficiency of the small-scale sector is insuf-
ficient to evaluate GOI's policies in this sector in a meaningful way. Spe-
cifically, small-scale units have been granted a variety of incentives,
including lower rates of interest and security margin on loans, government
procurement of the small-scale sector's output at favorable prices, simpli-
fied licensing procedures, and the availability of a Credit Guarantee Scheme.
In addition, GOI has reserved a list of 124 manufactured items exclusively
for the small-scale sector. It is possible that GOI's overall incentive
scheme has been over-generous. To explore this question further, GOI will
execute, within a year, a study of the financial and economic efficiency of
the small-scale sector in selected subsectors, and relate this to the level
1/   The use of the terms Small-Scale Sector and Small-Scale Industry follows
GOI's official definition: In June 1975, GOI amended its definition of
small-scale industry to include units with investment in plant and
machinery of less than Rs 1 million (excluding cottage industries) and Rs
1.5 million for ancillaries. The "old" definition of Rs 750,000 and
Rs 1 million, respectively, are used in the statistical references
throughout the report.
2/   It is estimated that small-scale industry employs about 4 million people.



- 11 -
of incentives the small-scale sector presently receives. GOI has also
launched a "Program of Modernization for Selected Small Scale Industries"
with the objective of improving the productivity of small-scale enterprises
(including quality improvement and cost reductions) to contribute to a better
export performance. The total cost of the program would be Rs 4.9 billion
over 5 years to finance the purchase of equipment, raw materials and tech-
nical assistance.
36.       Investment cannot, and should not, come to a standstill while
studies are conducted to assess and evaluate the impact of Government poli-
cies. To the extent that there are questions and doubts about policies, it
is important to ensure that new investments are directed to activities which
are economically sound and financially viable. The experience under the
first IDBI/SFC project (Credit 356-IN of February 9, 1973 of US$25 million)
demonstrated that such projects exist in the small-scale sector and that
properly strengthened State Financial Corporations (SFCs) can be instrumental
in identifying and appraising these projects. Ultimately, of course, the
experience of the SFCs (their failures as well as their successes) will
provide valuable data by which to assess the effectiveness of the policy
framework. Indeed, the study referred to (para 35) should make considerable
use of the data already accumulated by the SFCs.
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Financing
37.       A number of institutions provide financial assistance to small- and
medium-scale industry. The State Financial Corporations (SFCs) have been the
most important source of term loans; they are discussed below. The commercial
banks have also become active in lending to the industry, In particular since
their nationalization in 1969, when they became a more direct instrument of
Government industrial policy. As of June 1974, the scheduled commercial banks
had Rs 1.6 billion in term loans outstanding to the small-scale sector, which
is about one half of the total outstanding financial assistance by the SFCs
(Rs 2.8 billion in March 1975). Also, the Small-Scale Industrial Corporations
(SSICs) and, on an all India basis, the National Small Industries Corporation
(NSIC) provide some financial assistance to the small-scale sector through
hire-purchase finance.
38.       In addition to these organizations that lend directly to the enter-
prises, a number of other financial institutions, both all-India and at the
state level, are involved in assistance to either medium- and small-scale
industries or both. These include State Industrial Development Corporations,
Small Industries Service Institutes, the Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India (ICICI) - with which the Bank has been closely asso-
ciated through a series of eleven loans totalling US$426 million - IDBI, the
Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Life Insurance Corporation, and
the Unit Trust of India. In addition, the Industrial Finance Department
(IFD), until recently part of the Reserve Bank of India, but now transferred
to and integrated into IDBI, administered GOI's Credit Guarantee Scheme for
small-scale industries, serving all industries except transport and electric
power with 75% coverage of credit risks related to working capital and term
loans, letters of credit, and guarantees. This previous function of IFD has



- 12 -
been retained in the Reserve Bank. The number of institutions involved in
catering to the small- and medium-scale sector is large and perhaps excessive
with major overlaps in roles and responsibilities. As a first step towards
coordination and streamlining, GOI and IDBI plan to revive Inter-Institutional
Group (IIG) meetings in those States where they had become dormant. Secondly,
mechanisms for coordination at the small-scale level will be propagated,
including cross-representation on Boards of Directors and periodic reviews
of joint financing proposals and of clients in arrears.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The main purpose of the loan would be to provide assistance in
financing the relatively small industrial investments sponsored by the State
Financial Corporations (SFCs) and to assist in the on-going process of upgrad-
ing SFCs. A previous Credit of US$25 million for IDBI for the SFCs (Credit
356-IN of February 9, 1973) is expected to be fully committed by May/June
1976. The proposed loan would help finance the projected foreign exchange
requirements of the SFCs for the two-year period beginning July 1, 1976. A
third lending operation to IDBI is presently under consideration for helping
to meet IDBI's foreign exchange requirement in providing financial assistance
to medium-size public and joint sector enterprises.
40.       The proposed project was appraised in May/June 1975.    A loan and
project summary is given in Annex III. A report entitled "India - Appraisal
of a Loan to India for a Second Line of Credit to the Industrial Development
Bank of India for the State Financial Corporations," dated May 1, 1976, Report
No. 1158-IN, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington from April 8 to 19, 1976. The Borrower and
IDBI were represented by a delegation headed by Mr. Vineet Nayyar, Director,
Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs.
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
41.       The financial intermediaries involved in administering the pro-
posed credit would be IDBI and 18 SFCs. IDBI, which would be responsible for
the implementation of the proposed project, is the largest industrial develop-
ment bank in India and also the apex institution for all other financial
intermediaries. Established in 1964, it has been a fully owned subsidiary of
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) until recently. Under the provisions of
legislation enacted in 1975 the ownership of IDBI has been transferred to
GOI, making it a separate entity with a separate Board. The related organi-
zational changes would further improve IDBI's qualification as an appropriate
channel for Bank Group assistance. There are now three IDBI departments of
special importance for the SFCs: the SFC Department, responsible for policy
questions and inspections, the Refinance Department, covering domestic re-
finance projects; and the Import Loans Department, in charge of all refinance
in foreign currency. In addition, IDBI has decentralized its operations con-
siderably and given more authority to its regional offices.



- 13 -
42.       IDBI is now the largest single institutional source of industrial
finance, accounting for approximately 5% of the annual total industrial
investment in India. Its activities include direct loans, rediscounting com-
mercial bills, refinancing loans made by the SFCs and commercial banks, pro-
viding export finance, underwriting, equity investment and guarantee opera-
tions. As of June 30, 1975, the total effective financial assistance sanc-
tioned by IDBI was Rs 13.4 billion (US$1.68 billion). One third of the total
(Rs 4.4 billion) was for direct financial assistance to develop industry.
The balance consisted of rediscounting bills (28%), refinance (24%), export
finance (11%), and subscription to shares and bonds of financial institutions
(4%). IDBI's operations have expanded rapidly in recent years. Total annual
assistance sanctioned reached Rs 3,514 million (US$439 million) in 1974/75
compared to Rs 1,331 million (US$166 million) in 1970/71. Direct loans
accounted for Rs 672 million (US$84 million) or about 19% of the total assist-
ance approved in 1974/75. IDBI's total assets as of June 30, 1975 were
Rs 6.6 billion, its debt/equity ratio 5.7:1, and its profitability 1.6% on
average total assets. Its financial position is satisfactory.
43.       IDBI's interest rate structure and lending terms are complex and
contain a variety of concessionary rates for disadvantaged enterprises (back-
ward areas, technician-entrepreneurs, small-scale industries). This rate
structure reflects GOI's economic and social priorities. IDBI's refinance
lending rates have been revised upward in December 1975 and range from 6.0%
to 9.0%. IDBI's interest rate for lending foreign exchange to be refinanced
from the proceeds of the first credit (Credit 356-IN) has been 9.0% except in
concessional cases where it has been 8.5%. Under the proposed loan, these
rates would be reduced to not less than 8% and 8.75% per annum, respec-
tively. This would allow satisfactory spreads for IDBI and the SFCs and
suitable lending rates by the SFCs to the ultimate borrowers (see para 55
below).
State Financial Corporations (SFCs)
44.       At the State level, SFCs are responsible for providing medium and
long term finance, underwriting facilities and guarantees to small-and medium-
scale industrial units. Over the years, SFCs have become important sources
of funds for the small-scale sector, and in FY1975 an estimated 54% of loans
by amount and 90% by number went to the small-scale sector. As of March 31,
1975, they had total outstandings of Rs 2.8 billion. Their largest share-
holder is normally the respective State Government with holdings ranging from
36% to 89%. IDBI is a shareholder in all SFCs, with holdings ranging from 4%
in Himachal Pradesh to 43% in Gujarat.
45.       On the whole, operational results of the SFCs have been favorable.
Their annual loan sanctions grew from Rs 789 million in FY1973 to Rs 1,415
million in FY1975, or by 79% nominally. With minor exceptions, all SFCs
recorded increases in their lending operations. Overall disbursements grew
from Rs 449 million in FY1973 to Rs 738 million in FY1975.
46.       A new feature of the SFCs is the creation of Special Capital, which
would be contributed by the State Government together with IDBI. The proceeds



- 14 -
of Special Capital issues, for which no dividend would be paid, would be used
to assist risky ventures through equity financing, with preference to indus-
tries in backward areas, to industries set up by technician-entrepreneurs or
other artisans, and to sophisticated types of industries. After some delay,
some SFCs have recently started to make use of the possibility to raise
Special Capital.
47.       At the time of the first credit, SFCs suffered from a number of
weaknesses, including shortcomings in the quality of management and staff,
inadequate procedures and appraisal standards, high arrears and insufficient
provisions for possible losses. In order to provide for improvements, spe-
cific upgrading programs were developed by IDBI with active cooperation of
the Bank Group. Also, IDBI and the Industrial Finance Corporation of India
(IFCI) have developeda practice of seconding experienced staff to management
positions in SFCs. Since then, considerable progress has been made, partic-
ularly in management, general operational procedures, and appraisal standards.
However, certain areas such as the quality of portfolio (arrears) have shown
little improvement, partly because of the general economic downturn in 1974.
Given the upswing in 1975, however, with power cuts and raw material shortages
largely overcome and entrepreneurs again in a position to service their debts,
the SFC portfolios are expected to improve significantly.
48.       In addition, over the past two years, the upgrading programs them-
selves have been found to be insufficiently detailed and not broad enough
in scope. As a result, revised upgrading programs were prepared by IDBI/IFD
in March/April 1975 based on previous visits and recommendations by the Bank.
Further, during the appraisal of the proposed project, separate evaluation
reports have been prepared on each SFC with specific recommendations for
improvements. An agreement between IDBI and each individual SFC on these
revised upgrading programs and their implementation and on the debt service
coverage limit (paras 49 and 50 below) would be a condition for refinancing
of sub-loans made by the particular SFC under the proposed loan (Section
2.02(c) of the Project Agreement). This would form a sufficient base for
further strengthening of the SFCs. The recent transfer of the Industrial
Finance Department (IFD) from the Reserve Bank to IDBI will provide a more
effective means to monitor the implementation of the SFC upgrading program.
49.       The SFC Act limits the debt/equity ratio of all SFCs to 10:1.    With
an actual debt/equity ratio ranging from 2.5:1 to 8.2:1 at the end of FY1975,
all SFCs remained within the limit. Under the first IDA credit, however,
limits were also set for the debt service coverage ratio of the 18 SFCs, which
was to be better than 1.25:1 as of April 1, 1975 and any year thereafter. The
calculation was to be based on the combination of actuals from the past six
months and estimates for the subsequent six months. The debt service coverage
ratio limit would be retained at 1.25:1 under the proposed project, but would
be calculated on the basis only of actual results for the preceeding twelve-
month period (Section 2.02 (c)(iii) of the Project Agreement).



- 15 -
50.       The SFCs tend to repay bond issues in lump sums without making
sinking fund provisions over the lifetime of the bonds, so that on a specific
date the debt service coverage ratio position appears unfavorable. In order
to avoid false alarms induced by such harmless swings over short periods, the
proposed loan provides that, while the debt service coverage ratio be retained
at 1.25:1 as of April 1 each year, it will be calculated as if sinking fund
provisions had been made for bond redemptions (Section 2.02(c)(B) of the
Project Agreement), so that for the year of actual full repayment only a
fraction of the total amount repaid would count.
51.       Business prospects for the SFCs are favorable.    The difficulties
experienced by the industrial sector in India in 1973 and 1974, mainly at-
tributable to raw material shortages, labor unrest, power cuts, transport
bottlenecks and lack of demand, have been somewhat alleviated. Given GOI's
priority emphasis on the small-scale sector and the current drive for a
modernization program in this area, given further the SFCs' support by most
State governments, the demand for financial assistance from the SFCs to small
enterprises, including foreign exchange, should be substantial for the next
two years.
IDBI's Relationship with the SFCs
52.       There continue to be significant variations and deficiencies among
the SFCs in their capacities to appraise projects, in the quality of their
staff, and in their profitability, operations and resources. The work of
most SFCs needs to be upgraded, as outlined above. To make SFCs more effec-
tive instruments for coping with the needs of small- and medium-scale enter-
prises requires both closely coordinated and individual attention by an
institution that is familiar with the SFCs' operations, procedures, resources,
strengths and problems.
53.       IDBI is such an institution.   Moreover, it is in a unique position
to deal with the problems of SFCs. As stated before, IDBI's relationship
with the SFCs comprises ownership, Board representation, an influential role
in appointment of management, and a leading role in setting interest rates,
granting technical assistance and, most importantly, providing capital.
IDBI is thus in a position to exercise an effective influence on the SFCs
and continues to be an appropriate channel for Bank Group assistance to the
SFCs and through them to the small- and medium-scale sector. IDBI would
also be the channel for the SFCs' annual evaluation: IDBI would prepare
annually and forward to the Association detailed evaluation reports for all
SFCs. In addition, IDBI would forward to the Bank annual reviews of the
small-and medium-scale industrial sector at the State level, to be prepared
by each SFC with the assistance of other State level bodies.
The Proposed Loan
54.       The proposed loan would continue the pursuit of the objectives
sought under the first credit of 1973: to finance the import component of
sound, high-priority industrial projects in the small- and medium-scale



- 16 -
sector and the upgrading of SFCs through specific programs.    In the first
instance, through project financing, it would contribute to the moderniza-
tion of small-scale industries, the development of new entrepreneurs, backward
districts, employment generation both in rural and urban areas, and to an
increase in exports. Secondly, the proposed loan would provide the vehicle
for the Bank's continued involvement in the upgrading of the SFCs. It is
expected that the overall characteristics of the subloans to the enterprises
would not significantly differ from those of the first 260 projects financed
under the first credit, where 80% of all loans approved by number (63%
by amount) involved assistance of less than Rs 1 million, and 59% by number
(38% by amount) went to small-scale units. While the industrial distribution
has been reasonably diversified, the regional distribution, as expected,
showed a marked concentration on the SFCs in the most industrialized States,
like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu; nevertheless, the financial institutions in
conjunction with the State authorities have conducted industrial potential
surveys and have identified new industrial opportunities in less industria-
lized States, a number of which have already been implemented. A sample
of 68 sub-projects submitted for prior approval under the first credit
showed that the financial rates of return were expected to be above 20%
in 75% of all cases, with an (unweighted) average at 29%. The domestic
resource cost per US dollar earned/saved was calculated at below Rs 6.00 in
25% of the cases and above Rs 9.00 in only 16%; the (unweighted) average was
Rs 6.90. The average cost per job was US$10,700, but below US$5,000 in 29% of
the cases. Based on another sample of 76 projects evaluated under the first
line of credit, it is estimated that the total value of output per annum for
these projects at full capacity will reach Rs 677 million with a net value
added of Rs 162 million. Exports should reach Rs 37 million per annum.
55.       The proposed loan of US$40 million would cover the estimated for-
eign exchange required over the next two years for investment projects
sponsored by SFCs. GOI would relend the proceeds of the Loan to IDBI under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. GOI's proposed interest rate
would be 7-3/4% per annum less 1/4% per annum for prompt repayment, and
repayments would extend over 15 years after 3 years of grace. IDBI would
relend the proceeds at not less than 8.0% and 8.75% p.a., the lower rate
applying to loans for small-scale units, technician-entrepreneurs and units
in backward areas. Repayment from the SFCs to IDBI and from IDBI to the
Borrower would extend over 15 years and be scheduled to conform approximately
to the amortization pattern of SFC subloans. SFCs would lend to enterprises
at not less than 11.5% and 12% p.a., respectively. Thus, the SFCs would
enjoy a higher spread (3.5% compared to 3.25%) on the more costly and riskier
loans to small-scale units while at the same time charging a higher final
rate (12%) on other loans. GOI would relend the proceeds of the loan to IDBI
in Rupees, and thus the foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOI. If in-
flation averages about 5-7% over the next five years, the SFC final lending
rates will entail real positive rates of 5-7%. The SFC rates would be in line
with ICICI's foreign currency rate of 11%, where the sub-borrower bears the
exchange risk.



- 17 -
56.       Loans by SFCs to medium and small enterprises would be eligible
for refinancing if the project includes a requirement for imported goods
or services. In view of the large number of such projects, it would not
be practical to disburse the loan against identified import requirements.
Instead, as under the first line of credit for IDBI, the beneficiaries would
obtain foreign exchange through normal channels to cover their import re-
quirement. In order to reduce the administrative workload on the SFCs and
IDBI, as well as the Bank, the simplified disbursement procedure agreed under
the first credit would continue to be applied under the proposed loan. The
SFCs would receive appropriate documentation (judged satisfactory by the Bank)
from their clients before disbursing to them. The SFCs would certify to IDBI
that they had disbursed for eligible projects, and IDBI would refinance on the
basis of that certification. IDBI in turn would from time to time certify to
the Bank that it had disbursed a given sum to refinance eligible loans.      Dis-
bursements would be for 65% (the estimated average foreign exchange component) ol
IDBI's disbursements to SFCs for eligible expenditures incurred not more than
180 days prior to receipt of applications. The free limit for project approval,
Rs 1 million under the first credit, would be retained but would be raised to
Rs 2.5 million on an individual SFC basis once two acceptable prior review
cases per SFC would have been processed by the Bank/IDA (Section 2.02(b) of
the Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft Pro-
ject Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial Development Bank of India,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(III) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a draft Resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 48, 49, 50 and 56 of this report. There are no
special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1976






annex -.
M  n DAT - DX                               Page       1
3,280,483 kN2               TT'n     -n. i     i d - I 9 1 3)350                      Per kiof wetal    1ar
India
gmP     W   mll  WI (nra   Wm)u                                                   1                 90 La.      220 /a      2,600 aL
rrIselaper thousand                                         38             384s c84                       J.5 ia      i
Oruft anth rate  housand)13                                     16ad             19Id.8L          L4.2.9
nfant mortality rate (Per thousand live births)                 139       120-3.40              ..d            80          17.5  I
Life aspectans  at birth (years)                                 1,1            50               1,8           58            72
olos rwofati    Pt                                        2.7 la"                                                     12 ..
Popul.ation growth r    at                                      2.33                                                          1-
Peseaatlon growth rota - urban3                                       lk                          54                        05
5-64                                                          56              57~              53            5 S.       62.7
65 and s-er                                                                      3                      3/3a             13 6a
Age dependency retina4                                           0.8            0                0.9  5        0.9           0:6 
EcOnOnIC dependency ratlo Q4                                     1.0            1.7              i.5j          1.5            .
Urban population Oas percent of tots)l                           18 /k          20 /aj 1k4                     32 /b.-       78 ILa
FLmily plenrueg: i    om of acceptors comolatira (thorUs.     1oo .                              l17  /        ,0
Nc. of usrer (% of married acwne)             a..                             . 
aw   lfor     (thousande)                              189,0004       221,000 Zd,sg     10,100 /5     13,200v       25,700 /a
Percentag  employed in egricoatur                              73 74           1   c62                       56             3
Perontaep useuployad                                         3.2                                                  c       3.6    .
roan  o  Oa  eel nne  r.acevod by hishoet 58                72                r                          25   .       is
Percent of notional income received by highreot 208                             53 7r-s         .              51,/c         397
Paroent of national Income receivsd by Iawost 20%                 1               ~.                             ,c           6v
Pecnt of national Inoose received by ionvet 1,%                                 3..1
msmiinnxo Or Lin ounmstw
1 yesed by top I1W  of owners                                   . 
g owned by eaallest 10% of owners...
Thpu~alcnihper phsiciac                                       5,80 BO        1,80            27,381 /       2,I 13 90/c
PopAlatior, per noosing person                                5i1,'o /k       ,n              6,2           1,0a            301 C.,
Ptpualtion per haospital bad                                  2,600 4v       1604~             ,,0    4       804g           oj
Par napita calorie supply as % of raquirenecte /                 95 .           9                 38                         2
Per cepite protein sopply, total (grmos Per dayT4                               935              93           iS             90
Of Which, animal and PA"s                                      19 44          1   ab           11. Ld        22.           57
D.eath sate 1-4, years a7                                                      .16
T     0.7
31    ~d /8 pr          -1 eho enrullaent ratio                  4,2             9712                                  Id    1
Adjuated    seodr       colenrollment ratio                     I10 
Yeare of s  ooling provIded, firt and second level               12             12               12            20            13
Vocational enoliset as          Gof e. school enrollmet           I,
Adult literacy rata 5                                            24lU           3                5 .LL         72Lal         9
NPM     o. Of PeOsOse Per lo00 (urban)                       2.6 /44AJk     2.0 /c.aJ.ak      ...0.8 LLAil
Percent of occupied units Withouat piped woter                  ..Ada
iccees to electriolty (em 5 of total population)                2. :.                                          23
Percet Of foral population connected to electricity             .               .6                                   =d.L
orcivers parv 1000 population                              5             23 /a          1aL.            46 /j        672 A8
Pessengepr care per lOD poosulation                             0.8              I4               2        
mactrio posar consumption (khe p.c.)                             461                                           5  4   .,7      S
Newsprinkt consumption p. c. kg per year                        0.2           10'.13                          1.    n.L28.Sc
Ntote, Plonrfer either to the latest periods or to                    cosoat or "''Ir""taX.tertr,~                 eila
the latoot years. Intent periods refer in principle tn                dietricuticoc by age ma Oma of nation,al popultates.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70, the latest yearn in pfln-           /6. Protein standards (reqalrsem,nte) fur all ooontriae an eatab-
ciple t-o 1960 end 1970.                                              lihabd by IDOL Soonowdo Reesearch Service pro-ids for a elojnaum
lbs Per Capita GNP ostitonteeoX natuaret p710e0 for               allowance of 60 grens of tote). protein par day, rald 20 gr-aw of
yoars otber than 1960, calculated by the tans convereicn          anl    alra Pulse protein, of whIclh 10 grams ehould be antea
t-uc`u    nois192Wrd Back Atlas.                                  protein   these standard   are e"uha    lower      thenioes of 25
i avege nmecidaughters per ucmon oreodcie                         grm    of total protein and 23 gree   cfIt  a   protein as an
age.                                                              average for the world, propoawh by TAO in the Third World Fend
d4  Pepulation growth mien aurs for the decadeo endinig in            Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                                /3  Sons studies hvav muggested that orde death retes of children
Oi  atio of Population under 15 and 65 end over to popula-          ages 1 through 4 say be used 08 a    irst epproniaaticn indes of
tion of agee 15-61. for age dependency ratio and Pto labor        malnutrition. 
fror  of eges 15-61 for econonic dependency ratio.           L. Percentgag enrolled of soreeponding populatian Of edoh-      age
/.PAO reLference standords represent pbyaiological re-               an defined for each sanomtry.
quiretaat for normal activity end health, taking
( 1972;   _A    Eti-te atonneal avrerg  fur 1963-64 based ont result. of the nationa     anpi   auvy,      c17);        I    atiae
Li 1965-70;   If   1973;   LA  Evtic,ted annual avsemge for 195i-1     baedonanli            ofdeenia   census;           1 i~-Es  mar
Nate iso asctimate baued on births obtained by applicationoif "reverse 4ureivule method to reaUlts of 1951 and 1961
censusesa;   4     1960-72;  /k  Per the definition of urban seeo T        -   hij.~ ~.  Yiachk  j92, P. 151,;  /11  Muicipalities,
regency capitals end ether places with urban characteristics, emcdPg                             o   h    eiiino        ra
eve [UN 06a-rehlo Yearbook 1973. p. 127;       /n  Arean cloaified as urban for local governent purpoosm5, i.e. county
horoughs, nunIcipal toroughe and urban districts;      /a     1961,;  &   Incldtec .11 Individuals Who participate In any
type of caconnuc artlsity;    /4g  AID estimate of labor force in age group 15-59.     liBD report ghves a figur       of 180.1,
million b"asd en the 1921 population censue. The differencen is dtue to changs ic tbs definition of a,oorksr. In thy
1971 census, person wor clAasnified only on ths basis of their nain activities. This led to the rcluiuoon of aeveral
catgoriOs, such as hoauewloes;      ar     households;  /a  1967-68,    at    1968;  (A    1962;  /p   Prarsnnl in govererent
serricee only;    /.  1957;    Lx  1969,   &      Including rural hospitals;   a~ Governoent hospital establishments only;
4~1960-62;    ZA8_1969-70;     4!6j Estimate which includes overage siudente;      Led     1967;  4je tot including vocational
short-tars courses;    /_8f  1965;   LAK     1961;  /84    Population of 10 years and over based on onr percent ..apie data
of 1921;    /83    15 years and o-e;         Os to refer In houasholde;   /Ak   Ost    booe d on sapl    tabulation  of cno
clren7 ;    784    Dslo refer to households in conventional desllings;    /j imports only;      44m     Reginterd appliranto
Sine and populotmun mnke IndIDeSia a relevant referonos country, elthough It is in the per capita inccc grouP below
3ndia.
Thelb [cited KIogdno has been selected heonues of the iftporrant role of public oscior enterpriseo and the highly
developec aysteo of socialwrfae



Annex I
ROONOMIC UVDMI ENIT DATA                                  Page    2
GNP PB CAPITA IN 1973! 'US$120
GROSS NIATIONAL PRODUICT I 1g74175 AIAL RATE 0F GROWTE (s6. oonstant prioes)
US BIn.         j                             1961/62-1964/65    1965/66-t969/70   1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Market Prices             87.4        100.0                                  3.4               3.7                1.9
Groes Domestic Invetmnent        14.8        16.9
Gross National Saving            12.8        14.6
Current Aceount Balanoe          -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                     -1.8        -2.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY I 1971
Value Added (at faotor cost)        SaborForce           V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.              S6             M          S6                 o       a
Agriculture                      24-5                46.6            130.0   72.1         188            64
Industry                         11.8                22.3             20.2   11.2         582           199
Servioes                         1. I1_                                      16.7        512 186
Total/average                    52.6               100.0            180.4  100.0        292            100
GOVERNMET FIliAliCESd
General Government _                       Centrl Governae nt
(Re. Bin)            96 of GDP                 (Rs. Bin)            it of G1XP
1974i75        1974/75   1972/73-1974/75       14/7/75        974/75 1  972/73-1974T75
Current Reoeipts                  107.63         15.4         15.7                64.02          9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures               98.9          14.2         15.2                57.78          8.2          8.7
Current Surplus/Deficit            8.64           1.2          0.5                 6.24          0.9          0-5
Capital Expenditures e/            40.40          5.8          5.4                30.17          4.3          4.1
External Assistanoe (net)          10.17          1.4          1.0                10.17          1.4          1.0
MONEY, CEEDIT AND PRICES                1965/66    1970/71   1971/72    1972/75    197317     1974/75   August 1974    August 1975
(Billion Res outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                     61.4      105.7     122.4      142.2      169.1      187.4       176.8          198.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector             40.8       56.9       69.0       82.5       92.9     102.0        98.8          115.3
Bank Credit to Private Seotor            28.1       56-7       64.4       76.0       90.1      100.5       90.0           104.7
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                   Januarr 1975   JanuarY 1976
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         24.0       24.4      26.3       27-9       27.2       25.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                     131.6      181.1      188.4      207.1      254.2     313.0       316.0          290.5
Annual percentage changes ing
Wholesale Prioe Index                     7.7        5.5        4.0        9.9       22.7       23.1                      -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.9       8.6       21.3       19.6       12.6        9.8                       4.8  /
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8      17-4       13.6       18.0       18.5       11.5                      22.9 i-
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1973 market prices, ealculated by the conversion tecbnique used in the 1975
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
/ Quick Estimates.
A/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
s/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
*g Credit to Govornment.
g/ Credit to Comercial Sector.



Annex I
Page     3
BALANCE OF PAWETS                 1972/7                        M5        5              MHANDISE EXPORTS (Ay     GAGE 1972/73-1974/75)
Million                                              MUS  in.
Exports of Gooda                    2,558       3,239       4,143       4,300           Jute Yanufaotuiwru       329          10
Imports of Goods                  -2,682       -3,971      -5,739      -5,920           Tea                      220           7
Trade Dalamoe                      -  124      -  732      -1,596      -1,620           Cotton Textilese         217           7
a3  (net) i/                      -   146        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.           Iron Ore                 171           5
Engineering Goods       295            9
Resouros Gam                       -  270        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.           Others                 2.081          63
Interest Payments (not)           -   237      -  233      -  260      -  261           Total                 3,313          100
Other Factor Payments (net)        -    8        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Net Trensfers  */                  -   50        n.a.                    n.a.
Balanoe on Current Account         -  565        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.           EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1975_h
Offioial Aid                                                                                                                US5 Min.
Disbursements                     955       1,249       1,766       2,210           Repayable in foreign currency        11,056
Amortization                    -445         -459        -519        -522           Repayable through export of goods       714
Transactions with IMF                              75         530         130           Total Outstanding and Disbursed      11,770
All Other Items                        89         205          41         500
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76        19.0 percent
Increase in Reserves (-)            - 34         -105          38        -435
Grosa Reserves (end year)           1,311       1,416       1,378        1,813
Net Reserves (end year)             1,311       1,341         773        1,073           IRRD/ID lENDING, December 31. 197s    (us5 W_n.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                              IDRD      IDA
Imports                               265         720       1,451       1,450           Outstanding and Disbursed        445     2,827
of which: Petroleum                 265         719       1,451       1,450           Undisbursed                      284     1,157
Outstanding including           729      3,984
Exports                                41          20          26        n.a.             Undisbursed
of whichs Petroleum                  37          16          17        n.a.
RATE OF EXCBANGE   /
Prior to mid-December 1971     ,   US$1.00 = Rs 7.5                                      After end June 1972   t   Floating Rate
Re 1.00 = US3o.133335                                 Spot Rate December 31, 1975
Mid-December 1971 to           :   USS.I00 = Re 7.27927                                                approx. US51.00 = Rs. 8.937
end June 1972                   Re 1.00 = USSO.137376                                                approx. Rs 1.00 = USS 0.112
h/ Estimated.
j/ For 1973j74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
k/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
k/ Excluding garments.
j/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IIF transactions) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



NNXII
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK 13OUP OPFKATlCKS IN lIOL
A.   STAZIT OF BANK lOANS AND IDA CUflITS
Loan or                                (As of March 31, 1976)                  US$   1illiAZ1
Credit No.    ar     Borroer        _onse                                 (Net of Canceluati.a)
BMj      IDA   IJndlabre
38 Loans!                                                            1,032.5
36 Credits fully disbursed                                                    2Q051 .9
614-IN       1969    India      Taral Seeds                             13.0      -       7.0
176-IN       1970    India       adana Irrigation                       -       35.0      0.3
203-IN       1970   TInia       Punjab Agricultural Credit              -       27.5     17.9
226-IN       1971    India      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -       24.4      4.3
242-IN       1971    India      Power Transiasion II                    -        75.0    40.5
249-IN       1971    India      Harnna Agricultural Credit              -       25.0       7.6
250-IN       1971    India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credt            -      35.0      9.8
2,64-IN      1971    India      Cochin II Fertilizer                     -       20.0      2.5
267-IN       1971    India      Wheat Storage                           -        5.0      3.8
268-IN       1971    India      Pochapad Irrigation                     -        39.0      1.7
789-IN       1971    lCICI      Industry DFC II                        60.0      -          .2
278-IN       1972    India      lsore Agricultural Credit                -       L0.0     14.6
293-IN       1972    India     Maharashtra Agricultural Credit          -       30.0      2,6
294-IN       1972    India      Bihar Agricultural Markets              -       14.0     12.9
312-IN       1972    Ind.a      Population                              -       21.2     13.L
342-IN       1972    India      Education                               -        12.0    11.d
356-IN       1972    India     IDBI                                      -       25.0     19.2
357-IN       1973    India      Nagafl Fertilizer Expeanion              -       58.0     0.5
377-IN       1973    India      Power Tramisnssion III                   -       85.0     73.9
378-IN       1973    India      Mysore Agricultural Markets              -        8.0      7.9
902-IN       1973    ICICI      Industry DFC X                          70.0      -       16.1
390-IN       1973    Indita     Bombay Water Supply                      -       55.0    1i5.5
391-IN       1973    India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit       -       33.0     14.5
392-IN       1973    India      Uttar Pradesh Agricl1tural Credit        -       38.0     22.7
403-IN       1973    India      Telecoinications V                       -       80.0     h4.2
427-IN       1973    India      Calcutta Urban Developmet                -       35.0     22.4
440-iN       1973    India      Bihar Agrbcultural Credit                -       32.0     23-1
456-IN       1974    Inada      HP Apple Processing & marketing          -       13.0     13.0
481-Im       1974    India      Tromby IV                                -       50.0     43.4:
1011-IN       1974    India      Chambal (RaJasthan) CAD                52.0       -       43.9
482,IN       1974    Irdia      Karnataka Dairy                          -       30.0     30.0
502-IN       1974    India      Rajasthan CAna CAD                       -       83.0     62 .1
520-IN       1974    India      Sindri Fertilizer                        -       91.0     7'J
521-IN       1974    inda       Rajthan Dairy                            -       27.7     27.6
522-IN       1974    India      Madhya Pradeah Dairy                     -       16-4     -h.,
526-IN       1975    India      Drought Prone Areas                      -       35.0     3L.2
1079-IN       1975    India      IFFOO Fertilizer                       109.0      -      10 54
1097-IN       1975    India      Industry DEC XI                        100.0      -       95.?
5,32-17N    t1975    India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation              -       145 C     2.G
54O-I?!      1975    India      ARC Credit                               -       7$-      6/0
5241 -Iil    1975    India     'West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project            -       34.0     311.0
5   1 -Iil   1975    Tndia      Chambal (ladhy- Prrdesh) CAD             -      24.0      2', C
572-I:j      1975    India      Rural Electrification                    -       57.0     K .0
,e2-lii  1975   India      Railways iIII                           -      110.0     3p
cr< 1' l     1975    India     :Jttar Pradesh Water Supply              -       40.0     40.0
95 8II      197$    India      Fertilizer Industry                     -      105.o    105.0
6O0-4'1!     1975    India      Fourth Power Iransmission                -     150.0     150.0
609-1;      1975    India     i4adhya Pradesh Forestry Tech. Assist.    -       I,.0     4.0
610-10       1976    India      Integrated Cotton Development           -        18.0     15.0
61lu         1976    India      Industrial Imports id                   -      200.0    200.0
Total                                                               1,436.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                        72r5r.5  1,.C
Total now outstanding                                                  711.0 4',095 ...5.. 1
Amount sold                           111.5
of which has been repaid       111.5
Tot-A now held by Bank and IDA                                        711.0  ZZ9:1
Total undisbursed (including *)                                       72.8  1E;51.1  1,325.9
Jot vet effective
j   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As-of March 31, 1976)
Amount (US$ million)
Year            Company                            Loan      Equity      Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5         -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9          -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4         -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2          -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7         0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8        0.4         1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8        1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0        0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0        0.1         1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1        3.8       18.9
TOTAL                              43.0         8.8       51.8
Less:  Sold                              6.0         1.6        7.6
Repaid                           10.2          -        10.2
Cancelled                         6.2        0.7         6.9
Now Held                         20.6         6.5       27.1
Undisbursed                       9.5         -          9.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,825.9 million as of March 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
Date: December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31. 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loans 789-IN and 902-IN are
fully committed and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan
1097-IN. Disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing
processing plant has been completed. Two other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were made. These will not
affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement of a large batching
plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in July 1977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule. A project review mission visited
the Project in January and is preparing its report.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was.satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, and technical difficulties with the lining of the
main canal hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canal
has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Since early
1975, all material shortages have been removed and progress has been satis-
factory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land development,
however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability
in the project area. The Pochampad component of the proposed Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project is designed to
remedy this inadequacy.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date:   November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: January 31, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has completed a contract for
construction of the silo foundations at two of the five silo sites. A tender
has been offered for foundations at the other three sites. Tenders have
been cleared for a part of the equipment. The godown component has been
fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain Storage Study is progressing
and the staff training program has been planned in detail and is to be
implemented soon. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. A June 1975 review mission recommended actions to
bring the project in line with managerial and technical capabilities and to
incorporate consultants' recommendations for modifying the cold storage
component. A recent review mission found a satisfactory improvement in the
prospects for successful project implementation. Disbursements should be
completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements were initially delayed mainly because of delays
in material supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local
supply were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers
and imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated leadtime required.
The revised disbursement schedule for this credit is now expected to be met.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1976; Effective Date: April 22,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered; there are likely to be substantial cost overruns, a portion
of which is being met through Power Transmission IV.
Cr. No. 264     Cochin II Fertilizer Project; oUS$20.0 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. Engineering work, procurement and site
construction for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily,
but the project faces substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment
prices. Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than
expected delivery times for critical equipment. Engineering design and
procurement for the Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO
project has been delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity; implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Six markets are expected to open for business by mid June 1976. Market
construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve in
line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
(SFCs). However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of
this credit. Commitments are virtually completed. In order to provide
continuity in the Bank Group's involvement with small and medium scale
industry, a second line of credit is being prepared, which would cover the
expected foreign exchange requirement of SFC sponsored small and medium scale
industrial projects for the two year period beginning on July 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing



ANNEX II
Page 10
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. GOI has confirmed the revised project
description and is expected to confirm the project costs and financing plan
shortly. Meanwhile project construction is proceeding and most major con-
tracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded. Disburse-
ments should therefore be faster in FY 1977 than in preceding years. Finan-
cial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory, but
major rate increases have been proposed to start in April 1976, to ensure con-
tinuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project is rather slow, in
view of the reduction in overall funding of the CMDA program, of which the
project forms part, and of management and organizational problems. Project
costs have increased considerably, especially in the water supply and
sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate the project to funding
available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is expected to be
substantially completed by December 1978, about 24 months behind the original
schedule.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totaling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing off the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state to finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks



ANNEX II
Page 12
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricultural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for completion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project has progressed satisfactory furing the past six months.
Most staff are now in position and physical works are well underway. Pro-
gress has been slower in new activities (dry farming, dairy and sheep
development) because of delays in staffing and insufficient technical know-
ledge. Technical assistance, to be provided through the FAO Fund-in-Trust,
should help. To further improve the situation, at GOI request, a special
supervision mission will help identify training requirements and formulate
a training program.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date
September 30, 1977
This project consists of Indian Railways's new and on-going
investment program between April 1, 1975 and March 31, 1977. The credit
is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: August 24,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will demonstrate practical and effective means of
increasing cotton yields and maximizing by product recovery from ginning
and cotton seed processing. It will be executed over five years.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND LINE OF CREDIT TO IDBI FOR STATE
FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:         Small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises through
18 State Financial Corporations (SFCs), which will in
turn receive the proceeds of this loan through the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI).
Amount:                US$40 million.
Purpose:               To assist IDBI in using its refinance mechanism to
finance imported goods and services required to develop
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises in India,
and to improve the performance and effectiveness of the
SFCs serving these sectors.
Terms:                 Repayment over 15 years in semi-annual instalments
starting after 3 years of grace. Interest rate at
8-1/2% per annum.
Relending Terms:       (1)  GOI to IDBI:  At terms and conditions that would
have to be satisfactory to the Bank. GOI's pro-
posed terms, which would be satisfactory, provide
annual interest of 7-314% less 1/4% for prompt
repayment, and repayments to be made within 15
years after 3 years of grace;
(2) IDBI to SFCs: Annual interest of not less than
8% and 8-3/4% respectively;
(3) SFCs to Enterprises: Annual interest of not less
than 11-1/2% and 12% respectively.
The maturity of loans made by SFCs to sub-projects and
of any refinancing of these loans by IDBI to be determined
by the requirements of the sub-project but not to exceed
15 years. Exchange risk to be borne by Borrower.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Commitments and
Disbursements:       Full commitment of the loan is estimated by June 1978
and full disbursement by December 31, 1980. Disbursement
would be made in the form of reimbursing IDBI an agreed
percentage (65%) of its outlays in refinancing loans
made by SFCs for eligible projects, provided expenditures
have been incurred not more than 180 days before receipt
of financing application.
Estimated Dis-
bursements by
Calendar Year:                        1976     1977    1978   1979    1980
(US$ million)
Annual:           1.6     11.0    15.7     9.0     2.7
Cumulative:       1.6     12.6    28.3   37.3     40.0
Procurement:           Ordinary commercial channels
Apppraisal Report:     No. 1158-IN of May 1, 1976






80 _,5.o.   90-           5&7slaan  ro  v';EatIBRD 3873R
JANU ARY 1975
70'v\b                / -S                             '-0-         @vCL9ESH,,  -,-1
JAMMIU & KASHMtlR j                                  ene
, t C H I ~~~~~~~~~~~~N     A                      Kr s I
70                                               lOA DN      A  N
>5 HIIMAC AL
t o t V PRADESH        \. 90-
s     ,} ~~~PUNA  $f                    (T I B E T)
3,0.   +          ,   /   g         /'\ -'                                 -'  > t'  30-
f 9,                                  Br,, '-''\  791KK,' BHUTAN
/              t  ~~~~~~~~~~UTTAR PRADESH  >b 
{  J A I P U R  3 &   EL AARA*AR  .  '       A M
R A J A S T H A N  /    A                                 x    /f
A     s      tIACA            B I H A ROCFAN
,[  ~~~~~~  2 - )   ))  H   7   {iyt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SINDRI  ;r   "   T
-\.   < C/     MADHYA  PRADESH    A~~~~~~~~~~JAMSHEDWET   C*       a
MAD                           EST
GAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~DR
-  \   4d;  5           5     g  O ~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~R XE5SLA?  '
-0                                  S.- '        A
14, -  . >  .  e>_  u H  * S  HT  RS.
:'ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ELBI.                              |         fit';'d X 9t .  E A
.- " fJ ,j'AD         CENTERS
/ ~-                     UTTARO                         I UTS TN R I.A
is  s A  R N A T A K A          I rA- _ *  _A-
~~~~~~~~0                 EL       GORK.     "-A---.-'- :,xr  A  S- S.-: A  :,M  : .
-E t .  _ E,^^ *              i ; 8 m,w '1
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e~j ~~NGADS -                  .   't ''
Wll _ ~~~~~~~~T A     uIL   N A DU1l~r4
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1;j,SiSFZE)15110110- ,, 
B ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ASAB  U WES  C- RIL A  Kt   ;1 



