                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                         Report No: 25903

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (CPL-38740; SCL-3874A; SCPD-3874S; TF-22764; IDA-27100; TF-28762)

                                            ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                      AND A CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR74.8 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                          FOR A

                       YANGTZE BASIN WATER RESOURCES PROJECT




                                        June 30, 2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 2003)

                   Currency Unit = Yuan
                            Y1.0 = US$ 0.12
                       US$ 1.00 = Y 8.3

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1    December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPMO         Comprehensive Project Management Office
DSRP         Dam Safety Review Panel
DSS          Decision Support System
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FFWS         Flood Forecasting and Warning System
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
LHPC         Lishui Hydro Power Corporation
MTR          Mid-Term Review
MWR          Ministry of Water Resources
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPK          Nitrogen - Phosphate - Potassium (fertilizer)
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PIM          Participatory Irrigation Management
PMO          Project Management Office
RCC          Roller Compacted Concrete
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SIDD         Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District
WRB          Water Resources Bureau
WSC          Water Supply Corporation
WTO          World Trade Organization
WUA          Water User Association

                  Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
       Country Manager/Director:     Yukon Huang
        Sector Manager/Director:     Mark D. Wilson
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Richard Reidinger

                                            CHINA
                   YANGTZE BASIN WATER RESOURCES PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 24
8. Lessons Learned                                                               28
9. Partner Comments                                                              32
10. Additional Information                                                       34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             40
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             43
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             47
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                48
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            49
Maps IBRD 26382 and 26383

Project ID: P003596                                                      Project Name: Yangtze Basin Water Resources
                                                                         Project
Team Leader: Richard B. Reidinger                                        TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-38740; SCL-3874A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3874S; TF-22764;
                                                                                                     IDA-27100; TF-28762
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Flood protection (37%); Irrigation and drainage (27%); Renewable
                            energy (25%); Animal production (6%); General agriculture, fishing
                            and forestry sector (5%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Water resource management (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/13/1992                                        Effective: 10/16/1995              11/16/1995
   Appraisal:    08/11/1994                                            MTR: 12/31/1997                12/10/1997
    Approval:    04/25/1995                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Hubei and Hunan Provinces
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russel Cheetham
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Nicholas C. Hope - Department Director
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Joseph Goldberg - Division Chief
Team Leader at ICR:             Richard Reidinger                              Richard Reidinger
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Chisholm; Liu Xueming
                                (FAO/CP); R. Reidinger (WB)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to raise agricultural production and incomes; reduce the risk and
impact of floods; introduce a more sustainable and cost-effective system for Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) of irrigation and drainage schemes; and promote institutional reform and strengthening and
improve planning and environmental monitoring in the water sector. Key institutional development
objectives were to introduce comprehensive river basin management, and Self-financing Irrigation and
Drainage Districts (SIDDs) based on farmer participation. The latter was to promote cost recovery,
decentralization of services delivery, and participation by users in irrigation projects as key elements of
Government and Bank water resources policy. This was the first Bank Group-supported comprehensive
water resources operation in China.

The objectives aimed to increase agricultural productivity in order to narrow the rural/urban income gap
and were in line with the National Government's long term strategies and policies for the agriculture sector
as formulated in the early 1990s which sought to increase production to meet the requirements created by
population and income growth and to increase income in rural areas. In the water resources sector, the
National Government sought to promote water saving and efficient water use; comprehensive water
resource and river basin management; financial self sufficiency and cost recovery; reduced water pollution;
and implementation of priority ("key") water development projects. The Bank's agricultural sector strategy
objectives as defined in the 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) were to promote sustainable
agricultural development, assist impoverished and environmentally vulnerable areas and groups, and
increase and diversify agricultural production. Thus the project objectives were clear and well formulated,
in-line with the overall strategies of the Borrower and the Bank Group.

3.2 Revised Objective:
                                                                                                                                              1
The original project objectives remained unchanged throughout the project implementation period.
Emphasis on the institutional development objectives, and particularly on the development of Self-financing
Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDDs), however, became increasingly important as their large benefits
began to appear from the earliest stages of project implementation. Activities under the livestock and
grassland development sub-component in Hubei were altered at the Mid-Term Review (MTR) to focus on
breed improvement and stop further grassland development, due to low demand for grassland by farmers.

3.3 Original Components:
Part A - HUBEI Component
The Hubei component included rehabilitation of four large irrigation and drainage projects, improvement of
the large Sihu (Four Lakes) drainage area, and four non-water subcomponents for aquaculture, forestry,
grassland/livestock and soil improvement. The water resources sub-components included substantial
institutional development to reform irrigation operation and management through SIDD development, and a
detailed "SIDD Development Plan" was required (from each Province) by the loan covenants early in the
project. Each subcomponent had its own Project Management Office (PMO), although there was a
Comprehensive PMO under the Planning Commission and a Financial PMO under the Finance Bureau at
the Provincial level. Detailed sub-components were as follows:

1
  In June 2003, about SDR 0.2 million of the Credit was allocated to a new SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program (see Section 10). This
  program is still under implementation and not part of this ICR.




                                                                       - 2 -

(1)       Irrigation Repair and Rehabilitation Subprojects. The irrigation component of the project in
Hubei province included essential repair and rehabilitation works to upgrade four existing large-scale
irrigation schemes - Zhanghe, Dongfeng, Yindan and Wenxia - with a total benefiting area of 271,200
hectares, as follows:

(a)      Zhanghe Irrigation District (US$19.9 million): Rehabilitation of the General Main canal; the No.3
Main canal and its service area, including canal lining for 20 km, raising of embankments, construction of
retaining walls (where landslides occur frequently), and repair and replacement of structures; rehabilitation
of 155 km of branch and sub-branch canals; improvement and construction of laterals, sub-laterals and
on-farm works including irrigation and drainage ditches and land leveling; and rehabilitation of three
medium-size reservoirs.
(b)      Dongfeng Irrigation District (US$20.3 million): Construction of a cutoff wall at Shangjiahe
diversion dam to reduce high flow seepage losses in the right bank limestone foundation; lining of 87 km of
general main and branch canals to increase capacity and efficiency of the main conveyance system;
improvement of laterals and sub-laterals for about 2,600 hectares, including widening of irrigation and
drainage ditches and land leveling for low-yield land; repair or replacement of various structures including
four aqueducts and 42 tunnels and a number of other structures; and repair of four medium-size reservoirs
to improve flow discharge capacities and remove structural defects.
(c)      Yindan Irrigation District (US$24.8 million): Rehabilitation of the General Main canal (55 km)
including lining (9 km) and a number of structures, and construction of retaining walls; rehabilitation of
main canals No. 1, 2, 4 and 5 including lining (4 km) and repair of various structures; improving of
laterals, sub-laterals and on-farm works; and rehabilitation of a medium-size reservoir by raising dam
height and improving the spillway.
(d)      Wenxia Irrigation District (US$16.3 million): Rehabilitation and improvement of 128 km of main
canals, including rebuilding collapsed sections and repair of 23 tunnels; rehabilitation of similar works on
10 branch canals and associated structures; improvement of the capacity of eight pumping stations for
irrigation and drainage; and pilot scale improvement of laterals and sub-laterals serving 2,200 ha.

To improve operation of the four existing irrigation schemes, the project provided for installation of remote
monitoring systems for the General Main Canals and main canals of the four sub-projects; water measuring
devices on canals, reservoirs and off-takes; improvement of radio and communication systems; local and
foreign training study tours; and equipment including computers and vehicles.

(2)       Flood Control Improvement at Sihu Lakes Subproject. Sihu subproject (US$43 million)
comprised: (a) Upgrading of flood protection: Improvement of the Chang Lake dike including raising and
strengthening of a 28 km section, slope protection, and construction of a 13 km long wave break wall;
improvement of eight sluices and concrete-surfacing of the dike-top road; improvement of the Hong Lake
dike, including raising and widening of 84 km of the dike, slope protection and improvement of four sluice
gates; and increase of the discharge flood handling capacity of the Tianguan River including dredging of 20
km and raising of embankments; and (b) Improving drainage: Installation of pumps with a total capacity of
16 m3/s and replacement of old pumps by 10 new energy-saving pumps of 9 m3/s each; and construction
of local drainage networks, including subsurface drainage and land leveling to improve about 28,000
hectares of low-yield land. In coordination with the Bank project, a series of coordinated studies were
financed for Sihu, first with Canadian and then with Japanese grant funds, to upgrade the operational
system of the Sihu Lake system by developing computerized hydraulic mathematical models for the Sihu
area and a Decision Support System (DSS) to help guide future lake and drainage operations and improve
planning. The models and DSS were to provide a basis for a modern, computerized real-time operating
system for the Sihu Lake area. Although work under the grants was not part of the project as prepared, it
was completely integrated with the project by the Hubei project authorities during implementation.


                                                    - 3 -

(3)       Non-water Sub-projects.       The project financed four non-water subprojects, with details as
follows:

(a)      Aquaculture (US$15.55 million): Lake improvement over 12,593 ha, new fish ponds (216 ha), and
improved fish ponds (365 ha); new (117 ha) and improved (205 ha) nursery ponds for fish; five new fish
hatcheries; one turtle pond (1 ha) and one turtle hatchery (4.2 ha); establishment of a technical training and
extension center; and formation of a Scientific Fish Farmers Association.
(b)      Forestry (US$10.21 million): Economic Forest (principally chestnut, citrus, stone fruit, pear and
medicinal plants over 5,718 ha) managed by an estimated 20,828 beneficiary households; Timber Forestry
(5,000 ha) including poplar and slash pine principally for pulp and poles but also experimenting with
techniques for production of millable timber to meet future needs; Protection Forestry (6,000 ha) including
water and pond fir (Metesequoia and Taxodium spp) in lowlands and slash pine and poplar in upland sites;
and two training centers to be built (800 m2) or renovated (2,000 m2).
(c)      Grasslands Development and Breed Improvement for Cattle (US$13.07 million): Development of
11,415 ha of upland and 8,110 ha of lowland grazed pasture; improvement of the Provincial level breeding
and artificial insemination center; and stud stock importation.
(d)      Soil Improvement (US$11.09 million): Development of local fertilizer blending capacity not
available in the Province through construction of six blending plants of 30,000 t/annum capacity, each with
sales and storage facilities; and construction of 19 fertilizer supply stations to sell mixed NPK fertilizers.
Fertilizer sales were supposed to generate financing for fertilizer research and extension services
(supporting a network agricultural service system for soil fertility) which would help optimize fertilizer
inputs in agricultural areas. The service system included of improvements to four research institutes, and
9,900 m2 expansion of the Jingzhou training center and the Hubei Provincial Fertilizer Monitoring Center.

(4)      Institutional Development.      Institutional development was mainly for irrigation management
reform and focused on establishment of Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDDs)
comprising Water Supply Corporations (WSCs) at the reservoir/main canal level and Water User
Associations (WUAs) to take over O&M of the lower levels of the systems. It also sought to strengthen the
Hubei Water Resources Department through various studies and training programs. The WSCs and
WUAs were to be formed on a pilot basis in parts of the irrigation systems under improvement in
anticipation that the concept would spread once benefits to farmers became evident. In addition to SIDDs,
various research studies and capacity building activities were to be conducted under the project, and the
Hubei Fish Farmers Association would be formed.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
The Hunan component had several large sub-components: construction of the large-scale Tieshan and
Liuduzhai irrigation sub-projects, construction of the Jiangya Multipurpose Dam (to be the highest dam of
its type in the world), and development of an hydraulic model and DSS for operation of Dongting Lake, one
of the most the flood-prone regions of China. All sub-components were directly related to water resources
development and management and were to be managed by a high-level PMO located in the Provincial
Water Resources Bureau.

(1)      Irrigation Systems Construction Subprojects. The irrigation component of the project in Hunan
financed construction of two new irrigation schemes, Tieshan and Liuduzhai, serving a total of 50,200 ha.

(a)      Tieshan Irrigation District (US$41.7 million): The project design was to complete the construction
of the irrigation system in the North Tieshan area served by an existing reservoir with a total capacity of
635 Mcm completed in 1982. The project included the extension of the North Main Canal (28 km),


                                                      - 4 -

construction of two sub-main canals (24 km) and branch canals (28 km) including tunnels, aqueducts and
other structures; and construction of lateral and sub-lateral canals to supply irrigation water to about
25,800 hectares. The project also included the construction of a 2.2-km canal, a 3.5-km tunnel and a
medium-size reservoir (11 Mcm) for supply of municipal water to the city of Yueyang, presently supplied
by water from Dongting Lake which is of variable, often poor quality, depending on the season. The project
was designed to improve operation and maintenance through automation of the main and branch canals,
remote monitoring, water measuring devices on canals, reservoirs and off-takes, improved radio and
communication systems, offices and field management buildings, equipment and computers, vehicles, study
tours and specialized local and international assistance. The South Tieshan area serving 37,800 hectares,
completed in 1986, was not part of the project.
(b)      Liuduzhai Irrigation District (US$38.9 million): Liuduzhai is located in central Hunan in one of
the poorest counties of the Province. Only the main reservoir and a short section of the main canal were
completed long before preparation of the project started. The project included construction of the main
canal (18 km) including tunnels and aqueducts, three sub-main canals totaling 91 km; a pumping station to
lift water to irrigate some 1,650 hectares in the North of the project; and 88 branch canals, laterals and
sub-laterals to supply irrigation about 24,400 ha. The project also included the same items as in Tieshan
for improving operation and maintenance with the exception of automation of the main canal.

(2)      Construction of Jiangya Multipurpose Dam (US$290.2 million): Jiangya Dam was sited on the
Loushui River, a tributary of the Lishui River, which is one of the four largest rivers in Hunan and
considered one of the primary sources of widespread flooding in the low-lying West Dongting Lake area.
The design provided for a Roller Compacted Concrete (RCC) dam with a maximum height of 128 meters,
creating a storage capacity of 1,740 Mcm, of which 740 Mcm would be reserved for flood control between
April and September annually. At the time of preparation, RCC techniques had been in use for only about
15 years, and Jiangya would be the highest RCC dam in the world at scheduled completion. Dam design
incorporated a central overflow section with two non-overflow sections on each abutment; four overflow
spillway bays controlled by radial gates; and three mid-level orifice spillway outlets. The combined
capacity of the surface and middle-level outlet spillway gates was designed to discharge floods
corresponding to a 500-year flood estimated at 12,200 m3/s. The project included an underground
powerhouse located in the right bank equipped with three generating units of 100 MW each. In addition, a
small irrigation outlet was included to provide water to an irrigated area of about 2,000 ha near Jiangya
town, and a ship lock was to be constructed on the left bank to pass ships up to 20 tons. To help ensure
safe and optimal operation of the dam, a flood forecasting system was included in the project. The Bank
loan financed all or part of the preliminary and diversion works, the dam body and spillway, power
facilities including turbines and generators, and specialized technical assistance. In addition to flood
protection, it was estimated that the project would generate 756 million KWh per year on average. The
electric power department of Hunan Province was responsible for the construction of three 220 KV
transmission lines.

The particular geological and hydrological conditions at Jiangya dam site were considered in the design and
construction schedule of the project and had an impact on its implementation. The local geology (an
intercalation of sandstone, shale and limestone dipping downstream) determined the final location of the
dam. A unique feature of the site is the presence of a hot water aquifer within a sandstone formation about
70-90 meters below the dam foundation with a drainage point in the riverbed upstream of the dam axis. A
considerable number of studies were carried out before and during preparation to evaluate the regional and
local geology and the foundation conditions for the dam. Hydraulic models and geo-technical tests were
carried out as needed. Extensive exploration galleries (78 adits and shafts totaling 3,875 meters) were
excavated and 213 exploratory holes totaling 16,138 meters were drilled through the site. Project
authorities complied with the Bank guidelines on Dam Safety by recruiting an international Dam Safety


                                                    - 5 -

Review Panel, which was in place four months after the first Bank preparation mission in 1993 and about
two years before Board approval.

(3)      Technical Support and Research for Dongting Lake. The sub-component was intended to
provide technical support and research to improve the design and management of Dongting Lake and its
drainage schemes covering some 250,000 ha.            The main activity was to develop a computerized
mathematical hydraulic model and Decision Support System (DSS) to optimize operation and management
of Dongting Lake and provide a basis for computerized real-time flood management and operation. The
study was also to assist rainfall runoff modeling and real-time flood forecasting in the Dongting area. All
studies were expected to be completed in about three years.            Funding was provided for computer
equipment, training and technical assistance, as well as for model and DSS development. The international
firm for the study was to be selected competitively.

(4)      Institutional Development. The primary institutional development activities were to establish
SIDDs at Tieshan and Liuduzhai similar to the SIDDs in Hubei, and to strengthen the Hunan Water
Resources Department and the Lishui Hydro Power Corporation (LHPC). To improve operation and
management of Tieshan and Liuduzhai irrigation districts, Water Supply Corporations (WSCs) at the
reservoir/main canal level and Water User Associations (WUAs) at branch and lateral canal level were to
be established at both sites to promote better operations, greater farmer involvement in management and
farmer controlled water fee collection and use.

Part C - Yangtze Flood Forecasting and Warning System
The project as originally proposed, prepared and appraised included US$12.8 million for a Flood
Forecasting and Warning System (FFWS) for the middle Yangtze River Basin. This component was
dropped at Government request during loan negotiations due to central government restrictions on loan
borrowing by a central government agency or ministry. Although it had been decided at negotiations that
the system would be financed and carried out using domestic resources, the funding was never provided and
the system was never built. The system would have produced immense benefits during the massive
Yangtze River floods of 1998.

3.4 Revised Components:
Revisions were required for several sub-projects under the Hubei component at the Mid-term Review
(MTR) during implementation. For the Hunan component, the main change was to reduce the consultant's
scope of work on the Dongting Lake study.

Part A - HUBEI Component
The Grassland/Livestock sub-component in Hubei had significant revisions in the MTR, due mainly to lack
of demand for grassland (this issue had been raised during preparation as a potential problem, but had been
rejected by Hubei). Grassland area was therefore reduced to 1690 ha from 19,525 ha after experience with
initial 1,690 ha of grasslands plots indicated lack of interest on the part of farmers and local communities.
The original plan was to use the grassland for farmers to raise livestock on a small scale basis, which due
to market conditions turned out to be not viable for the farmers compared to centrally managed intensive
livestock industrial type of operations. To avoid waste of money and increased repayment burdens for
farmers, the sub-component was reduced and redesigned to stop grassland development at 1690 ha, turn
those areas into demonstration areas, and focus on improvement of livestock breeding with a liquid nitrogen
and oxygen plant, development of embryo transfer techniques, importation of additional bovine eggs, semen
and livestock, and improvement of facilities at the Provincial and county artificial insemination stations.
Savings were transferred to other sub-components, mostly soil improvement.




                                                     - 6 -

The soil improvement sub-component was also restructured slightly during the MTR. Loss-making
fertilizer plants were upgraded with superior equipment for production of more profitable concentrated
fertilizers and provided with management training, and the Jingzhou fertilizer mixing plant was
discontinued and substituted by upgrading Zaoyang fertilizer supply station to a mixing plant. A Hubei
Province General Fertilizer Corporation was formed to manage raw material imports and the overall sales
system. Investment in this component increased from Y 96.5 million at appraisal to Y 136.7 million at
completion.

The aquaculture sub-component discontinued the turtle hatchery after its construction in 1996 owing to a
90% price decline for adult turtles. The Training and Technology Center building was not completed due to
lack of counterpart funds and insufficient interest. The expanded Jingzhou City government stopped the
Shashi fish pond, hatchery and turtle pond development due to Municipal reform in 1998.                 These
mid-course corrections were relatively minor compared to the overall sub-component.

In the water resources subprojects, the Dongfeng subproject funding was reduced by Y 5 million due to
savings in procurement and the savings transferred to the Sihu subproject during MTR revisions. Near the
end of the project, Y 10 million in surplus funds were transferred from Wenxia to Zhenghe subproject to
complete the SIDD and flood management center there.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Only a few changes were made in the Hunan component during implementation. The height of Jiangya
dam was raised by 3 meters to 131 meters; Qishi pump station at Liuduzhai was replaced by raising Zaizhi
Dam 35 meters and building diversion canals to improve sustainability and lower operation cost, and a
farmer training building was enlarged from 1,796 m2 to 3, 926 m2. In addition, the scope of work for the
Dongting Lake study was reduced due to delays and greater than expected costs.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory overall. However, given the high level of preparation effort, it may
have been rated higher if a simpler project design had been used in Hubei, focused on water resources
development and management.         In Hunan, a clear, single focus on water resource development and
management created a highly satisfactory quality at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project objectives were achieved in both Hubei and Hunan, and in terms of SIDD development were
substantially exceeded. The project met all of its original objectives in terms of irrigated area improvement
and institution building, and both provinces had started spreading the SIDD reforms, especially WUAs,
outside the Bank-financed project areas before project completion. Household data indicate that
institutional reform in irrigation management through WUAs contributed strongly to a near doubling of
household income in project areas between appraisal and ICR. The economic performance of all irrigation
subprojects substantially exceeded appraisal estimates, with the excess roughly correlated with the degree
of SIDD development at each site (see Annex 3 Table). SIDD reforms in Hubei were especially difficult
because of the entrenched bureaucracy and vested interests associated with the old, existing irrigation
systems rehabilitated under the project. Jiangya Dam was completed on schedule as the tallest RCC dam in
the world, with an increased dam height (3 meters added in 1999) for greater flood protection. By reducing
flows into the huge Dongting Lake which is connected to the Yangtze River, Jiangya provided significant
flood control benefits in Hunan during the massive Yangtze River floods of 1998 even before it was
complete, and helped lower the peak flood crest on the Yangtze River itself. Although not financed under



                                                     - 7 -

the project, the Sihu Hydraulic Model Study and Decision Support System (DSS) provided an improved
operating and management system for Sihu, and with the Sihu infrastructure investment under the project,
contributed substantially to flood damage reduction in Hubei in the 1996 and 1998 floods. The Dongting
Lake Study and DSS in Hunan were completed in 2002 under the project, albeit with a year delay, and
contributed to flood management of the serious floods in Dongting Lake in 2002.               All non-water
components in Hubei met their development objectives and achieved profitability and sustainability.

The project provided significant agricultural benefits, including doubling of agricultural yields and
expansion of irrigated area due to both new infrastructure and reduced water wastage as a result of more
efficient water management by the farmer Water User Associations (WUAs) established under the project.
Efficient water management by WUAs also helped alleviate impacts of the 2001 drought, with most WUA
areas suffering little or no drought damage compared to adjacent non-WUA areas which were hit hard by
the drought. The SIDDs/WUAs saved substantial amounts of household labor normally used for water
guarding, which had the unexpected benefit of allowing more off-farm employment, with as much as
40-50% of the able-bodied labor working off-farm frequently reported in WUA areas. This had a direct
benefit for household income in the project areas as it substantially increased labor time available for
off-farm employment to a much greater extent compared to non-WUA areas. This unexpected benefit was
mainly the result of reduced water conflict and less need to guard water after WUAs took over local water
management. There was also a substantial benefit for women who did not have to "fight for" and guard
their irrigation water when male labor was away for off-farm manual work.

Overall the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, with some aspects rated highly satisfactory, and with a
few shortcomings as noted in the following sections.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Project design focused primarily on water resources.        Irrigation investments were for rehabilitation,
improvement and/or completion of four existing irrigation systems in Hubei, and construction of two new
irrigation systems in Hunan. Irrigation works were completed down to the sub-branch, lateral and on-farm
works levels, and the project provided for development of farmer management of operations and
maintenance through farmer Water User Associations (WUAs) with dedicated Water Supply Corporations
(WSCs) to manage reservoirs and main canal systems under a general irrigation management reform
concept called the Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage District (SIDD) which was developed and
introduced for the first time in China through this project. The project also sought to support poverty
alleviation efforts, a degree of watershed protection (in Hubei), and improvement in flood control and
management (in Hunan) through construction of the Jiangya Multipurpose Dam, which would be the tallest
Roller Compacted Concrete (RCC) dam in the world. Other water resource activities were aimed at
improved infrastructure and management of flooding and drainage in the Sihu area north of the Yangtze in
Hubei, and flood management for Dongting Lake in Hunan, which is fed by the Yangtze and its tributaries.
In Hubei, although water resources accounted for about 70% of investment costs, four additional non-water
but related sub-components for Aquaculture, Forestry, Grasslands/Livestock, and Soil Improvement were
included, aimed at increasing fish, forest, livestock and agricultural production. These were also intended
to produce profits which would help repay the Bank loan.

Part A - HUBEI Component
(1)       Irrigation Repair and Rehabilitation. The construction of main works has been completed in
the four irrigation sub-projects and generally exceeded appraisal estimates by about 10% in terms of rock
and concrete work, leveling and canal lining and by 156% for building construction. A total of 16,400
hectares have been leveled or about 120% of the mid-term review target. The total investment for the water
component exceeded the mid-term estimate (Y 1,093 million) by only 0.6%. The allocation from World



                                                     - 8 -

Bank funds (US$56.6 million) for the water component was fully utilized.

The overall project output objectives have been achieved. Although some pumping stations and canal
works were eliminated due to lack of funds, this did not have a serious impact on project objectives or
benefits. At completion of the project, the conveyance capacity of the Zhanghe main system, for example,
has increased significantly due to the removal of bottlenecks in the slide-affected areas, with the discharge
capacity of the Zhanghe No. 3 Main Canal increased by some 50-60 m3/s, and at Yindan, the conveyance
efficiency of the main canal increased from 50% to 62%.             As a result of such improvements, the
transmission time needed to provide water to remote areas has decreased by several hours. Overall the
project has contributed to raising of farmers' income, reduction flood risks and waterlogging, and
promotion and effective establishment of the SIDD institutional reforms. However, better canal design
might have further upgraded performance, efficiency and operability and would have provided even larger
benefits from the investments. As designed and implemented, the works were of traditional design because
local governments considered that improved designs would be too costly. Improved communications were
installed under the project, but the remote canal monitoring system planned during project preparation was
not included in the project because of the extra costs required; it also might have further enhanced
performance. In addition, more accurate measuring devices, such as measuring weirs or flumes, were rarely
installed in either Hubei or Hunan due to costs and lack of appreciation of their value at the time of
preparation.

During preparation and implementation of the project, considerable attention was given to the establishment
of SIDDs in the subprojects. But more emphasis on improvements in the local physical infrastructure at
farm level, combined with SIDD/WUA institutional development, would have increased benefits of both
physical and institutional investments. Farmers noted strongly that World Bank funds for local level
infrastructure improvement were what made the lower level irrigation canals, and thus the WUA systems,
workable, and that funds for those facilities were too limited, and as a result, improvement works on WUA
infrastructure required considerable financial and labor contribution from the farmers. Although this was
partly built into the financing plan from the beginning based on China's "beneficiary pays" principle,
counterpart funding shortfalls at various levels, especially in the early years, meant that farmers had to bear
more of the cost than expected. Better results might have been obtained had government funds matched
Bank funds as planned.

Rehabilitation and strengthening works to improve the safety of the three large dams and 11 smaller dams
serving or related to the Zhanghe, Wenxia and Yindan sub-projects were not financed under the project, but
in line with loan covenants and Bank policy on dam safety were carried out during the project period (but
were not evaluated for the ICR). The loan agreement also provided that the borrower would ensure that all
the dams related to, or rehabilitated, under the project would be subject to a dam safety review and
subsequently maintained, operated and inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering
practice, which was done.

(2)     Sihu Flood Control Improvement. All of the project outputs were met with the exception of the
remote monitoring system, one large pumping station and two gates. (Note that later stages of the Sihu
hydraulic model study showed that the latter two items were not high priority). Improved infrastructure
combined with the improved hydraulic model and operating system for Sihu flood control (developed under
separate grant funding) had a major impact on flood damage reduction during the 1998 floods, even before
physical completion. For example, the flood control capacity for the Tianguang River has increased from a
1 in 5-year flood to a 1 in 20-year flood, and drainage time shortened by 11 days.




                                                     - 9 -

(3)      Non-water Sub-components

(a)      Aquaculture. The sub-component achieved most of its original objectives except for the changes
noted above (Section 3.4). Most of the lake improvements were completed after early problems with
contracting. All planned new and rehabilitated fishponds, hatcheries and nurseries were completed. Actual
investment was US$16.06 million or 102% of the MTR estimate. Although financial and economic rates of
return for fishery production suffered due to over-expansion of fish production and low produce prices in
eastern China, the sub-component's farmers are well placed to survive this difficult market period owing to
superior technical skill, facilities and technology. The component also assisted the formation of a Hubei
Fish Farmers Association, which distributes technical and marketing advice province-wide through a
biweekly news sheet, is widely respected by fish producers, and will help them become more competitive
during the current market downturn in fish prices.
(b)      Forestry. The sub-component achieved all its objectives, although some lowland timber and
protection forestry sites were destroyed in the 1996 floods, and in addition the area of economic forest was
expanded due to strong farmer demand. Actual investment was US$10.21 million. Final achievements were
4,398 ha of timber forestry (all planted to high technical standards of spacing and fertilizer use), 5,709 ha
of protection forests and 5,839 ha of economic forests, benefiting in total some 18,600 households (a
reduced number compared to appraisal owing to larger than expected individual farm sizes in upland areas)
through increased fruit, nut and herb production and inter-cropping. Both the planned training centers were
built or rehabilitated, 793 person months (99% of target) of training, technical assistance and study tours
were completed, and all necessary materials were procured and distributed. Financial and economic rates of
return (ERRs) and benefits were slightly greater than estimated at appraisal owing to faster forest growth
rates and higher than expected fruit and nut yields.
(c)      Grasslands Development and Breed Improvement. The sub-component achieved only 1,650 ha of
the planned 19,500 ha of grassland development by 1997 after spending some 67% of the International
Development Association (IDA) Credit allocated to it. Thereafter it was redesigned to retain the grasslands
already developed as demonstration areas, but no new grassland was added. Subsequently some 3,500 ha
of grasslands were developed under private enterprise funding using the model areas as a guide, and now
provide grazing for cattle involved in three dairy companies. The grassland model itself was changed from
grazed pastures to stall-fed animals. The main sub-component objectives also changed to focus on
breeding, and to upgrade existing facilities for the Provincial liquid oxygen/nitrogen plant, improve
facilities for animal breeding (including embryo transfer), and improve the artificial insemination network.
A total of 17 cattle were imported from New Zealand and 18 more were bred from embryos imported by
the project, although none have Bos Indicus breeding best suited to the climate of Hubei. However, when
crossed with local cattle through the insemination program, benefits were considerable. A total of about
1.8 million head of improved cattle were produced using artificial insemination under the project. Financial
and economic analysis have been based on a conservative estimate of genetic gain of 15% (common under
rangeland conditions elsewhere), although project staff estimates suggest gains as high as 66% have been
achieved.. Investment for the sub-component totalled US$6.6 million (Y 57.6 million) or 102% of the MTR
figure of which counterpart funds were Y 33.2 million. The SAR cost estimate was US$13.0 million.
(d)      Soil Improvement.         Overall the sub-component performed poorly owing to inadequate
management, finance (particularly lack of Provincial counterpart funding), marketing skills, engineering
and technology. Although some of these problems were anticipated during preparation and appraisal, the
general lack of management expertise and operating funding in particular prevented the fertilizer blending
plants from reaching profitability. Inadequate funding also precluded purchase of the best available
technology and equipment, and in addition, a provincial Government veto on study tours in 1996 prevented
technicians from studying improved plant design in the USA necessitating use of the local design institute's
traditional designs. Market prices for low concentration blended fertilizer were inadequate, and production
of more profitable higher concentration fertilizers has only recently started using bulk blending. Marketing


                                                    - 10 -

studies were conducted but did not anticipate adequately the rise in blended fertilizer production by
neighboring provinces which depressed fertilizer prices in some project areas. At the MTR, development of
a Provincial Fertilizer Corporation was added to coordinate fertilizer procurement for all plants and to
provide unified management of all fertilizer activities under the project across all participating counties to
achieve economies of scale in input purchasing and marketing, but the Corporation was not fully
operational before project completion. Upgrading to steam pressurization techniques and plastic coating of
pellets was also recommended to produce a high concentration quality product, but that was only viable for
a plant when it reached 15,000 tons per year, or about half of nominal capacity. None of the plants
reached that target, although several are close.       All plants will soon face a substantial additional
investments for upgrading to meet competition; and for replacement of equipment owing to poor original
design, poor quality equipment, inadequate maintenance and poor overall management, all of which have
reduced plant life below appraisal plans.

(4) Institutional Development. The establishment of the SIDD and WUA reform concepts in Hubei have
been highly successful and exceeded expectations. As a result, WUAs in Hubei (and Hunan) have provided
a model and demonstration for the rest of China on irrigation management reform based on Participatory
Irrigation Management (PIM) and WUAs. Development of farmer WUAs, which started under the project
with the first WUA in China established in Hubei in 1995, has been supported by the Ministry of Water
Resources (MWR) at the central level and is spreading throughout China, currently with a total of nearly
800 WUAs established in Bank-financed projects in 10 provinces and three large municipalities, plus some
1500 WUAs established in domestic projects. As of March 2003, a total of 102 WUAs and 13 WSCs have
been established in project irrigation districts in Hubei, compared to 59 WUAs and 9 WSCs originally
planned; this includes 39 WUAs established outside the project area but inside the project irrigation
districts. Zhanghe, for example, has reached 90% WUA coverage, with some 35 WUAs outside the project
area; Dongfeng has reached about 31% WUA coverage.               Average coverage by WUAs for the four
irrigation sup-projects is about 30%, although Yindan and Wenxia are relatively low. Hubei has also
established some 30 pilot WUAs and 6 WSCs at non-project irrigation districts and reservoirs and plans to
extend the SIDD reform concepts throughout the province.            Although provincial support for WUA
expansion has been strong and continuous throughout the project (otherwise WUA development would not
have been so successful), an official Provincial policy decree on WUAs has yet to be issued pending a
national policy statement on WUAs which is under preparation by MWR. However, lack of a provincial
decree has been supplanted by municipalities which have issued their own local decrees on WUAs, such as
the Jingman City "Management Methods for WUAs" decree which covered Zhanghe and Wenxia
sub-projects. Based partly on the results of the project, irrigation management reform with WUAs is now
becoming an important component in the MWR irrigation rehabilitation programs for large-scale irrigation
districts, and Hubei is combining further WUA development with that program, although a major
constraint to wider adoption appears to be lack of local funding for the necessary complementary irrigation
infrastructure improvements at branch and lateral canal level which is essential for WUA development.
Lack of funding for WUA facilities under the project is partly due to large funding requirements for
rehabilitation of reservoirs and main canal systems which is essential for both safety and economic benefits.
Moreover, central government regulations require national funds to be used for large capital works rather
than small scale facilities, even though the latter could be improved a relatively low cost (say
US$20-50/ha); this leaves the entire burden of financing on-farm development works to local governments
which are perpetually short of resources. With the issuance of State Council decree No. 45 (SC-45) in
September 2002, however, the pressure to expand WUAs and concurrently to improve small scale facilities
appears to have increased; Hubei is interpreting SC-45 to mean that unofficial local fees and charges
(including water charges) can no longer be collected by townships, but WUAs can legally collect water
charges. This gives the Hubei government and local Water Resource Bureaus (WRBs) a strong incentive to
support and establish WUAs. However, despite SC-45, township and municipal governments still view


                                                    - 11 -

irrigation water fees as a source of revenue with few obligations as to transparency in their collection and
use, and standard water charge collection is not yet under WUA control. In addition, the quality of WUAs
has been variable, even in the Bank-funded project. Although such WUAs are an improvement over
traditional management methods, it is essential that capacity building efforts on high quality WUA
development be continued to ensure that WUAs are actually the farmers' own organizations and that water
charge collection and use are under WUA control.

Key unresolved institutional problems are low water charges, which lead to system deterioration; and
diversion of water charges by villages and townships to other purposes which encourages low water charge
collection rates. Collection of water charges by WUAs and direct payment to the WSC supplier have
helped but not completely resolved this situation. Moreover, although Hubei WSCs have helped provide
more unified operation free from government interference, in general they are not yet financially viable due
in part to low water charges, and also to high costs and other factors. The WSC at Zhanghe No 3 Canal,
for example, has to pay 58% of the water charge revenue paid by WUAs for system operation and
maintenance (O&M) to the (higher level) main canal and reservoir WSC, with payments based on 1980s
levels of agricultural water use, leaving too little to cover its own O&M costs. A fair share is estimated at
about 25% based on current levels of agricultural water use, and would enable the WSC to operate
profitably. The WSCs also have to pay pensions for retired government irrigation staff, because the
pension responsibility was transferred to the WSCs; requiring WSCs to take on these past liabilities for
which they had no responsibility also helps ensure they will be unprofitable. In addition, although there is a
Zhanghe General WSC, the sub-WSCs are not subsidiaries with unified technical and financial operations
under the General WSC, and the General WSC is not united with all the lower level WSCs as a strong and
viable corporate body with overall responsibility for water supply for agricultural, municipal and
industrial, and power use.      This limits the WSCs' financial strength and sources of income, since
agriculture water charges are hard to raise for social reasons, and leaves a large share of total water
revenues unavailable for overall system O&M. For most WSCs in Hubei, the result of the present
arrangements is still too little funding for maintenance, as in the past. The Baihe WSC in Dongfeng,
however, has managed to deal with these problems and make a small profit by implementing unified
management, instituting strict cost control measures, providing support to help ensure the quality of WUA
clients, and resolving pension issues. They have demonstrated the clear potential for the WSCs' long-term
viability if water charge, pension and other such issues can be resolved.

Hubei and Hunan were the first provinces to introduce WSCs and WUAs in China. Hubei has made
substantial achievements with the SIDD reforms while also encountering difficult problems because they
had to change existing institutions and systems; their experiences are part of the "learning by doing
process" built into the project for the SIDD reforms and should provide useful lessons for irrigation
rehabilitation which is a common need in China. Partly as a result of the project in Hubei, WUAs have
achieved widespread acceptance, and clearly demonstrated their benefits of more reliable and equitable
water distribution, increased production and income, reduced water wastage, labor savings which can be
applied to off-farm employment opportunities, and standard delivery of water to weaker and vulnerable
groups; meanwhile, WSCs have demonstrated the need for and benefits of unified system operation and the
potential for financial sustainability.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
(1)      Irrigation Systems Completion. The sub-component met all appraisal targets and exceeded them
for on­farm works. Total costs exceed appraisal estimates for the Tieshan sub-project (US$46.7 million)
by about 12 percent and for Liuduzhai (US$40.75) million by about 4.8 percent. Quality of construction
was generally satisfactory but varied between the two. At Tieshan, engineers used conventional hexagonal
blocks as canal lining without geomembrane and overall efficiency of the main canal to WUA offtakes is


                                                      - 12 -

only 82%.     Leakage is excessive (up to 182 litres/m2/day) in some canal reaches. At Liuduzhai,
geomembrane was used in fill areas and a combined concrete/rubble basement with cast concrete overlay in
cut areas. Leakage rates have been measured and are very low, with a main canal efficiency of 93%
overall. The quality of finish of the systems and attention to materials choice in areas such as steel
protection from rust also needs improvement. Volumetric water measurement techniques used under the
project in Hunan are in most cases rudimentary and not very accurate, frequently based on calibrated canal
or gate cross sections with depth measurement; in the long run, better volumetric water measurement and
accountability between the WSC and WUA is essential. However, at this early stage even these simple
techniques have been sufficient to establish the principle of water charges based on objective water
measurement in the minds of both farmers and operators which is a very positive achievement. At present
water is generally measured at the WUAs' intake(s), although some WUAs measure water internally and
increasingly farmers are demanding water measurement down to the farm gate. Measurement of water and
sale of water by volume to WUAs has furthered the treatment of water as a commodity and an economic
good, and has promoted substantial savings of water in Hunan (and also Hubei) of perhaps 30%. Although
ownership rights for water under the law remain with the State, the right to use a predetermined quantity
for which the water charge is paid seems well established. Still to be established, however, is for farmers to
be able to trade all or part of that quantity to other sectors such as industry and cities, which limits the
incentive to save water only to the measured cost of the water. Particularly at Tieshan where the demand
for high quality water by Yueyang City is growing rapidly, saving agricultural water for transfer to
municipal use will become increasingly important, and financially beneficial to the WSC.

One unanticipated result of WUA development in the SIDDs has been that farmers, particularly at Tieshan,
have acted in cooperation to diversify their cropping pattern, diversify their sources of water (using small
and medium sized reservoirs, often fed partly by Tieshan water), and develop or take over other low cost
but limited water sources. With funds generated from labor released from farming, in one case for example,
they shared the cost of a new reservoir to supply water in the North Tieshan area and further developed
small existing reservoirs. This process has been underway at many locations since early in project. As a
result, actual water use from the North Main Canal at some branch off takes is a low as 25% of that
expected at appraisal, and irrigation water releases into the main canal required to meet demand are too low
to maintain adequate water levels at the off takes to serve the command areas. To achieve adequate water
levels in the main canal for proper operation of the branch off takes and system operation, water flows in
the main canal must be far in excess of actual irrigation demand. The result is substantial waste of water
(although some of the excess water can be captured in the tail reservoir for delivery to Yueyang), and in the
long run the water will be needed as demand from municipal water grows. To maintain adequate water
levels in the main canal, designs should have included cross regulation at WUA branch off take points. A
French technical assistance study provided under the project identified the problems in system operation
and monitoring and recommended solutions, some of which involve relatively inexpensive design changes
using various types of long-crested weirs; with the current design the consultant estimated that operational
water losses were about 50%. Unfortunately the consultant delayed starting the work, and the issues and
design changes needed were only understood after the project was essentially complete. With expected
future increases in domestic and industrial demand, accurate water control will be essential, and a remote
water level monitoring system will be needed, particularly at Tieshan, although similar design issues exist
at Liuduzhai. Tieshan has future plans to implement an automated water monitoring system, and possibly
install long-crested or "duck-bill" weirs at strategic sites in the main canal, based on the results of the
technical assistance study.

(2)      Construction of Jiangya Multipurpose Dam. Financed by MWR, Hunan Province, the
Construction Bank, and the World Bank loan, Jiangya Dam has equaled or exceeded appraisal targets in
terms of construction speed and benefits. The ICB contract for the dam body was signed in 1995 and the


                                                     - 13 -

dam reached crest level in 1998. Initial problems with the supply of aggregate occurred because the
successful bidder, who quoted a price some US$18 million lower than the second bidder, underestimated
the cost of the aggregate and could not supply aggregate at the quoted price. Eventually compensation of Y
130 million (US$14.9 million) was paid for the increased aggregate cost to avoid re-bidding, and the work
then proceeded on schedule. An innovative construction technique involving a sloping top surface for the
compacted concrete was developed during construction and has been extended to other new dams. Flood
control was possible by 1998 and the dam reduced Lishui River flood peak in that year by 62%. The
original design provided to limit the outflow of a 50 year frequency flood to 1,700 m3/s. The height of the
dam was raised in 1999 before completion by 3 meters to further reduce flood surge, and with the increase,
outflow can still be limited to 1,700 m3/s but for a 100 year frequency, giving greater flood control
capability.    First power generation occurred in May 1999.                The additional reservoir capacity
(approximately 100 Mcm) due to raising of the dam height has further increased power generation
capacity, which is now estimated at 739 million KWh annually. Construction standards were high, and
leakage is virtually negligible.      Full cooperation has been extended throughout construction to the
international Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) established in accordance with project loan covenants. At
its last full meeting, and after detailed review of quality control testing and instrumentation data, the DSRP
concluded that "Jiangya Dam was constructed to a high level of quality and in strict conformance with the
specifications which has resulted in a safe structure that should meet all design requirements and Lishui
Hydro and Power Corporation (LHPC) expectations."

Civil works for the navigation facilities have been completed on the upstream side of the dam, but the ship
lift has been postponed due to lack of traffic. There are currently no navigation facilities through the
downstream Sanjiangkou run-of- river power plant.

An Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan (EMMP) for construction of the dam was prepared
during appraisal and carried out satisfactorily during construction, including monitoring of water quality in
the river.    Few adverse environmental impacts were encountered and all were mitigated adequately.
Rehabilitation of the quarry site is planned and a monitoring program is in place for known unstable areas
near the reservoir. All construction facilities are being removed and the sites rehabilitated. A few landslides
have occurred in a few areas around the reservoir and are being monitored, and an emergency warning
system has been established to protect the local population in those regions.

Jiangya Dam resettlement was completed to standards exceeding those required by World Bank and the
original agreed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the project. Some 13,514 people in 3,327 households
living in 40 villages and 6 townships in three counties in two provinces (Hunan and Hubei) were resettled
from the reservoir area between 1994 and 2001; this is about 800 more resettlers than estimated at
appraisal. In addition, 584 people in 149 households were resettled from the dam site itself, and an
additional 2,570 people required economic rehabilitation, making a total of 16,668 people who were
resettled or rehabilitated economically under the program. Resettlement compensation for land and private
and public assets was paid promptly, and affected people and farmers were consulted extensively and
involved in preparation and implementation of the program. The project RAP was followed initially but
had to be modified several times during implementation due to changing preferences, conditions and
policies. In particular, many resettlers changed their preferences in the early stages of the program and
wanted to "move out" rather than "move back" as originally planned, and even near the end of the project
after they had been resettled, some people changed their preference and wanted to "move out" after they had
already "moved back." Although such changes substantially disrupted the original RAP and caused severe
problems for reestablishment of livelihoods and housing in the early stages, the project accommodated and
supported these changes, and in the end the program was very successful. Moreover, it had a substantial
poverty impact in the three counties involved, which are poverty counties. In all three counties, the


                                                      - 14 -

resettlers incomes were higher after resettlement then they had been before according to surveys conducted
by the independent monitoring unit contracted by the project. And compared to before resettlement, the
new living conditions provide better quality housing and infrastructure; electricity, water supply, sanitation,
roads and communications; better social services like schools and clinics in the new villages and townships;
and flood protection. Small land holdings for resettlers opting to stay in the area in the "move back"
category were an early concern due to limited land availability around the reservoir area. However, by
completion about 18% more land had been developed for "move back" resettlement than anticipated at
appraisal to ensure adequate livelihoods, and in addition many resettlers had decided again to change their
preference and moved out rather than back which further reduced the pressure on the limited land available.

(3)      Technical Assistance for Dongting Lake Flood Management Research. Development of the
hydraulic and hydrologic model systems and the Decision Support System (DSS) for Dongting Lake were
completed behind schedule because the international consultant did not realize sufficiently the complexity
of Dongting Lake in the early stages of the work, and also because of unexpected difficulties and changes
in the lake configuration due to a national polder removal program for Dongting Lake which started after
the study commenced. As a result, the project loan closing was delayed by a year to enable completion of
the study. After several unsuccessful attempts, the international consultant strengthened its technical input
beyond the contracted cost, and the model system and DSS were successfully operated during the 2002
floods and produced acceptable results. Although the contract for the model was satisfactorily completed,
Dongting Lake is exceptionally difficult to model, and changes in lake geometry are continuing as the
polder removal program progresses. Clearly, the model system is still "a work in progress" and probably
will be for the foreseeable future. The model will need to be upgraded and staff trained repeatedly if the
model and DSS are to continue to be used effectively for flood management of the lake. The cost of the
model and DSS went beyond budget and the contract cost, and the excess cost was born by the consultant
from their own resources. The model can now be used for basic flood forecasting, and as a large
two-dimensional hydraulic model is considered advanced by Chinese and world standards.

(4)      Institutional Development. In Hunan, the institutional development sub-component exceeded all
targets set at appraisal. The sub-component included establishing of operational WUAs and WSCs under
SIDD development at Tieshan and Liuduzhai, establishment of the Lishui Hydro and Power Corporation
(LHPC) which was the first comprehensive unified river basin management agency established under a
Bank-funded project in China, and strengthening and capacity building support for the Hunan Water
Resources Department. At Tieshan, 24 WUAs and 36 water user groups covering nearly 80% of the
project area have been established in the project area, plus 7 WUAs outside the project area; at Liuduzhai,
36 WUAs covering 80% of the project area have been established. All WUAs are fully operational and
self-financing. Tieshan and Liuduzhai General WSCs have been established as fully integrated water
companies responsible for irrigation deliveries, domestic water supply, power, and a range of other related
activities. WSCs at Tieshan and Liuduzhai are strong, financially self-sufficient enterprises, have an
income base derived from a range of services, are independent of municipal government control, and have
recognized responsibility for all matters related to water in their areas, and very important, they provide
continuing technical support for their WUA clients after completion of the Bank-funded project. WUAs
established under the project generally meet all quality criteria developed during supervision, including
independence and undisputed farmer management and control of funds, and almost all WUAs are
financially self-sufficient. Moreover, the concept of WUAs and WSCs as partners to fund further system
improvement and expansion is spreading, with farmers paying about 75% of costs in labor or cash (and in
some case borrowing from local banks) and WSCs providing critical materials and technical assistance.
Throughout implementation, the Provincial PMO provided combined technical, financial and management
support at all levels under a series of capable Directors. The Provincial PMO also contracted Wuhan
Hydropower University to establish an overall monitoring system in 1998, and was able to monitor


                                                    - 15 -

progress of SIDD establishment, understand and document the benefits involved and draw lessons which
were incorporated into implementation.

LHPC was registered as a legal person during project preparation, and established as an operating entity
during implementation with support under the project. Although its primary role during the project period
was as the Owner of Jiangya Dam, it was institutionally designed and empowered to become the developer
and manager for the Lishui River Basin, with Jiangya Dam as its first major activity. It is understood to be
the first unified, fully empowered, comprehensive river basin management agency established in China. In
addition to flood control and power generation, LHPC provides some irrigation and navigation benefits
from Jiangya downstream to Dongting Lake, and handles environmental management and protection issues
in the basin. LHPC is now planning and preparing its second dam, Zaoshi, which will be primarily for
flood control. With Jiangya Dam now in operation, LHPC is operating profitably, especially after power
prices were raised in 2002.

Supported in part by the project, and under mandate from MWR, the Province is reorganizing institutional
arrangements in the water sector to focus on integrated water resources management, including both
surface and groundwater policy regulation assessment and planning, through the creation of Bureaus of
Water Affairs in place of the old Water Resource Bureaus. Meanwhile, the plan is that water operations in
the province will be the responsibility of WSCs and WUAs (SIDDs), which will have responsibility for
operation and maintenance of water supply systems for agricultural, domestic and industrial uses. A strong
provincial policy framework and good practical experience with WSCs and WUAs under the project
supports these new institutional arrangements.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Overall Project
The ERR for the overall project is 26% as against 23% estimated at appraisal. The Net Present Value
achieved was Y 3.3 billion at completion compared to Y 2.2 billion at appraisal, reflecting the additional
benefits achieved (see Annex 3).

Part A - HUBEI Component
The Hubei component had economic rate of return (ERR) of 33%, a considerable increase over the 26%
estimated at appraisal. ERRs for all sub-projects were higher than estimated at appraisal except for
aquaculture (agriculture/fertilizer was included with irrigation in the SAR). The overall increase was partly
due to the labor saving benefits from WUA formation, especially at Zhanghe where WUA development was
greatest and the ERR was 43% compared to 25% at appraisal.                The economic rate of return for
aquaculture decreased to 21% from 35% anticipated in the SAR due to general overproduction of fish in
the region and thus lower product prices. The Net Present Value for Hubei increased from Y 1.26 billion
at appraisal to Y 1.85 billion at completion.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
The Hunan component as a whole had an economic rate of return of 22% compared to 18% forecast at
appraisal. This was due to the following factors: (a) labor saving benefits due to WUAs from labor released
for guarding water entitlements in the irrigation sub-components, similar to Hubei; (b) early flood control
benefits from Jiangya Dam in the 1998 floods; and (c) extra flood control benefits resulting from a 3 m
increase in dam height. The incremental benefits of labor savings are demonstrated especially by the
increase in the ERRs at appraisal and completion, which went from 18% to 31% for Tieshan and from
18% to 26% for Liuduzhai. Moreover, an economic rate of return of 17% solely for the power generation
component of the Jiangya Dam demonstrates its economic viability even without taking into account the
substantial flood control benefits. With both power and flood control benefits, the ERR for Jiangya Dam



                                                    - 16 -

went from 18% at appraisal to 20% at completion. As a result, the Net Present Value for Hunan increased
from Y 812 million at appraisal to Y 1.4 billion at completion.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for the overall project at completion was 24% compared to 19% at
appraisal, and the financial net present value at completion was Y 2.7 billion compared to Y 1.2 billion at
appraisal. Hubei project investments produced a FRR of 31% against 21% at appraisal due to improved
returns with Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDDs), and improvements in financial
performance for Forestry and the revised Livestock sub-component, although these latter increases are
relatively small in absolute terms. The financial rate of return for Hunan is estimated at nearly 20% as
against 16% at appraisal, with the increase mainly due to significantly enhanced financial benefits from the
two SIDD-based irrigation sub-projects and to some extent Jiangya Dam.              The main financial and
economic indicators are summarized below (see Annex 3 Table for details):

                                  Yangtze Water Resources Project
                          Financial and Economic Analysis at Completion
                                                      FNPV                       ENPV
             Province                      FRR        (12% )         ERR         (12%)
                                           (%)        (Y'000)         (%)       (Y"000)
             HUBEI                          31      1,642,014         33        1,849,443

             HUNAN                          20      1,062,955         22        1,412,239

             TOTAL PROJECT                  24      2,704,969         26        3,261,682

            Detailed data for individual sub-components in each province are in the project file.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The most important and lasting institutional impact of the project has been the development and expansion
of irrigation management reform using the SIDD model concept which was carried out successfully in both
Hubei and Hunan, with WSCs established for main system operation and farmer WUAs for operation and
maintenance of lower level irrigation facilities. Benefits at completion of all irrigation subprojects have
been substantially greater than estimated at appraisal in large part due to this very successful innovation.
In addition, the obvious success of the SIDD model and reforms in both provinces, Hubei with
rehabilitation schemes and Hunan with new schemes, demonstrated the feasibility, sustainability and
benefits of farmer participatory irrigation management in China under a range of conditions. Since 1995
with the establishment of the first WUAs in China, the project has helped spread WSCs and WUAs to 10
other provinces and 3 municipalities (including Beijing) under Bank-financed projects, with a total nearly
800 WUAs and 41 WSCs established by the end of 2002, while some 1500 WUAs have been established at
domestically financed irrigation projects with Ministry of Water Resources (WMR) support. With strong
support from both MWR and the two provinces, the project has thus introduced a new management model
for irrigation in China and a very important and beneficial institutional reform and innovation which is now
spreading to other provinces. It was the success and benefits in both Hubei and Hunan, each under
different conditions, with the SIDDs reforms and especially the WUAs that has promoted the spread and
acceptance of these new reforms, and especially the acceptance by MWR of WUAs as a method to improve
irrigation management; MWR regulations now require all domestic rehabilitation projects to include
irrigation management reform, of which WUAs are one specified type, and MWR leaders have strongly
supported WUA development and expansion. It is doubtful that these new concepts would have been
accepted and introduced so broadly and approved at high national levels without full success in both



                                                    - 17 -

provinces. Hubei and Hunan have also become a model for SIDD and WUA irrigation management reform
throughout China; some 125 study tours (including several foreign study tours) have visited Tieshan in
Hunan, for example, and the experience with WUAs at Zhanghe in Hubei has been recognized and written
up in a major international news journal.

Part A - HUBEI Component
Institutional impacts and benefits have been greater than expected for the irrigation and aquaculture
sub-components, and approximately as expected for the other non-water components except for fertilizer
blending plants. The WSCs and WUAs have contributed to much higher economic benefits from irrigation
investments than expected, and have led Hubei to decide to spread the reforms throughout the province.
The province and lower level governments provided effective policy support to start and implement SIDD
development with WSCs and WUAs, but lack of counterpart funding for works sometimes reduced
effectiveness and local enthusiasm and this may have reduced the institutional impacts in some areas,
especially for WUAs. Nevertheless, benefits of WUAs and WSCs were substantial and explicit from the
earliest stages of implementation, and Hubei is the home of the first WUA in China which was established
in 1995. Compared to pre-project conditions and also nearby non-WUA areas in the same irrigation
districts, the impacts of farmer-run WUAs included: increased yields and production, increased area
irrigated, water measurement and delivery by volume, water saving, reduced water management labor
requirements, virtual elimination of water conflicts which enabled more off-farm employment by farmers
who no longer had to guard their irrigation water deliveries, poverty alleviation and gender benefits by
ensuring proper water deliveries to poor and vulnerable groups and to households headed by women, crop
diversification, reduced maintenance costs by eliminating farmer damage to facilities, reduced overall water
costs for farmers even though water charge rates had to be raised slightly to cover WUA costs, increased
ownership and responsibility for facilities among the farmers, and reduced burden of handling water
management conflicts for local townships and villages administrations. The WSCs established unified
system management based on hydraulic (instead of administrative) boundaries, eliminated government
intervention in irrigation management, improved water charge collection rates and revenues, and eliminated
the substantial diversion of water charges inherent in collection by government administrative units.
Transparent water charges based on measured water volumes sold by WSCs to the WUAs, which is a core
concept of the SIDD system, were highly favored and supported by both farmers and WSC management
and led generally to much higher water charge collection rates compared to non-WUA areas.               For
non-water sub-components, a number of technical and institutional innovations have been introduced under
the project which have produced considerable positive institutional impacts; innovations include animal
breeding technology; silvicultural techniques for economic forestry and for production of millable timber;
and advanced techniques and self-funded technical extension in aquaculture.            But the most clear
institutional impact for the non-water sub-components was the development of the membership-based
Hubei Fish Farmers' Association established in 1997, which now has more than 50 branches and 3000
member fish farmers and has published 87 issues of its excellent extension journal "Guidelines for Fish
Farmers to Become Better-Off" with over 4000 copies published which is increasing year by year. The
Association has proven highly beneficial for fish farming, and provides a model to other provinces.
Unfortunately, the complexity of project organizational design, requiring both the involvement of multiple
implementing agencies and overall coordination by a Comprehensive PMO (under the Provincial Planning
Committee) which had no direct control over the line agencies, probably reduced institutional impacts due
to lack of agency ownership. Nevertheless, the project in Hubei produced substantial positive institutional
impacts, and with the WUAs and WSCs has helped set in motion very significant reforms in irrigation
management in the province, which has become a national leader in such reforms.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
The project had a considerable positive impact on policy reform and the organization of water


                                                   - 18 -

administration, operation and maintenance in Hunan, in particular through the establishment of the SIDD
reforms with the WSCs and WUAs. The detailed benefits of the WUAs and WSCs were similar to those in
Hubei. However, the institutional strength and impact of the WUAs and WSCs in Hunan are probably
somewhat greater in Hunan compared to Hubei, in part because the irrigation systems constructed were
new and there was much less need to break down old institutional barriers and vested interests. In addition,
unified WSCs covering the entire irrigation district were established at the very beginning of construction
and acted in effect as the "owners" of their sub-projects and became the sponsors of the WUAs, and WUAs
were established branch by branch with full participation of the farmers as construction progressed; WUAs
also participated in the planning and layout of their local systems, which by itself produced more ownership
among the farmers and generated large benefits due to local layout and design changes by farmers such as
increased irrigated area for little or no extra cost and reduced costs with better performance. Institutional
impacts at the project level far exceeded appraisal expectations. Impacts were also at higher levels, most
recently with the allocation of responsibilities for regulation, technical assistance, planning and monitoring
to the new comprehensive Bureau of Water Affairs at Yueyang City (near Tieshan); and for irrigation
operation and maintenance to the WSCs and WUAs. This change increased the role and responsibility of
government at the policy, regulation and monitoring level, and reduced it at the operational level for
delivery of services, and is a fundamental higher level government reform which was not anticipated and
could not have been easily possible without the proven development of the WSCs and WUAs which could
take over responsibility for irrigation management and operations. In addition, the establishment of the
Lishui Hydro and Power Corporation (LHPC) as an independent corporation which was suitably
empowered for unified river basin management, rather than just for operation of a large new dam as is the
standard practice in China, was a major institutional innovation and provides a new model for better river
basin management. The SIDD concept of self-management and self-financing of irrigation by farmers is
well established in Hunan as a result of the project, and the project serves as a model for water sector
reform in China with Tieshan having been the site of a national SIDD conference and received study tours
from many different provinces. Farmer training is well established and includes not only irrigation and
water management but also intensification and diversification of agriculture. Training is estimated to have
benefited some 50% of project area farmers. Institutionally, the project in Hunan provides the basis for
future projects using a program approach with the SIDD model, which has been proven reliable, is strongly
supported locally, and deals with many long-standing irrigation management issues.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Part A - HUBEI Component
Natural disasters. In Hubei, major floods in 1996 damaged project facilities and also required large
amounts of provincial and local budget funds for flood rehabilitation. The floods destroyed grasslands and
forestry and damaged water control facilities. Concurrent monsoon rains affected fertilizer raw materials
being transported on open barges and resulted in losses through direct damage and sales at discounted
prices. Although flood impact was reduced in 1998 by improved management of polders in Sihu as a result
of project interventions, substantial flood damage occurred in other areas. Flood damage rehabilitation and
recovery costs in 1996 and also 1998 adversely affected counterpart funding available for the project in
Hubei.

Decline in major agricultural output prices. Market liberalization combined with over-investment in
enterprises such as farm level aquaculture and fertilizer blending plants outside the project area had a major
impact on non-water sub-components, especially Aquaculture. Price declines were most severe for turtle,
fish and fruit/nuts (particularly citrus, peach and chestnut) products. In addition, intense competition in the
fertilizer market has meant that fertilizer prices from blending plants in the Soil Improvement



                                                     - 19 -

sub-component have been low, and not adequate to cover the full costs of the fertilizer blending plus costs
for the agricultural service system which matches blended fertilizers to crop and soil requirements, although
the sub-component provides a unique and valuable service for farmers.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Natural Disasters. Major floods occurred in 1998 and affected progress on Jiangya Dam, although no loss
was caused to the structure. Losses downstream, however, were severe, amounting to an estimated Y 4
billion. As a result, a decision was taken to increase height of the Jiangya Dam wall by 3 m.

Changes in the value of the SDR compared to the US dollar created a shortfall in the equivalent US dollar
value of the IDA Credit amounting to some US$1.7 million for Jiangya Dam construction.

Unanticipated changes due to filling of Jiangya Dam Reservoir have occurred with a slight uplift (a
maximum of about 3 cm) of the dam foundation during reservoir filling which has required installation of
additional special monitoring equipment costing some US$2 million, which is to be completed using
domestic funds by 2005. Chinese scientific organizations and the Jiangya Dam Safety Review Panel
(DSRP) have reviewed this issue in detail and concurred that the heave should not impair dam safety.
However, the DSRP warned of possible dangers from excessive tapping of the hot aquifer below the dam
which could cause differential deformations of the dam foundation and recommended that the hot water
aquifer should be allowed to flow at its natural rate and not be pumped or throttled. The DSRP also
recommended that observations of the heave should be strengthened and integrated into the dam safety
program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Part A - HUBEI Component
Although the government strongly supported the project, there were counterpart funding shortages
during the early years; counterpart funding is a common problem with the rural development portfolio in
China. Although the government provided adequate counterpart funding in later years to complete the
project, the early shortages were never made up. As a result, farmers paid more than their agreed share of
the total cost, especially for local irrigation works. However, it should be emphasized that China has a
strong "beneficiary pays" policy, and it was understood at appraisal that the province never intended the
entire government contribution to be a grant to the farmers. In addition, the farmers in most of the
irrigation areas had benefitted from earlier irrigation development for some 30 years and were not poor
relatively. Nevertheless, lack of promised government counterpart funding did at times slow project
progress, and also affected technical standards, increased financing costs, and weakened the leadership
credibility of Provincial and City level governments to some extent. Despite strong local support, some
WUAs, for example, had to reduce design standards or forego lower priority works and structures in their
systems due to lack of counterpart funding. And the Provincial Government's decision to veto all study
tours to cut costs during 1996 (due to excessive demand on the government budget for flood recovery
work) also reduced the role of the fertilizer plants in developing innovations in fertilizer blending plant
design.

Project Management Support under the Project Leading Group with a special Leading Group Office, the
Comprehensive PMO (CPMO) under the Planning Commission, the Financial PMO under the Fiance
Bureau, and PMOs in the various line agencies which were set up under the project were reasonably
effective in promoting coordination across departmental boundaries to carry out implementation, especially
in the early years, and during later years cooperation between the departments improved as they became
more experienced. ICB procurement of fertilizers and other goods was problematic during the early years
because the CPMO which was responsible was not experienced in procurement or Bank requirements, but



                                                     - 20 -

this also improved in later years with experience.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Effective Management was generally a positive influence in all areas of the project. A project Leading
Group was established at the outset to coordinate efforts of the Water Resources Bureau (WRB),
Provincial Planning Committee, and Provincial Finance Bureau. Cooperation throughout implementation
was effective. Local city governments also supported the project effectively. At Yueyang, for example, the
City Government amalgamated the domestic water supply company with the project-supported WSC to
create a single, financially strong, independent and viable General WSC or water utility, which has become
in effect an integrated water manager for the local river basin. Nevertheless a shortfall in the disbursement
of funds for Tieshan (4.9%) and Liuduzhai (8.5%) irrigation areas occurred.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Part A - HUBEI Component
Project Management was complicated and not as effective as it could have been owing to a multiplicity of
agencies coordinated by the CPMO and lack of management control by the CPMO over the implementing
departments (this is common in China), which led to unclear responsibilities and lack of ownership by the
implementing departments. The CPMO did operate a project monitoring system, but it was relatively
inefficient and slow and not very useful for day-to-day project management purposes; it was mainly used
for producing progress reports for Bank supervision missions, which were helpful, but it was not very
useful as a tool for better project management.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Project Management. The Provincial PMO provided consistent and well coordinated management of
financial and technical aspects and used monitoring and survey data effectively to readjust plans. PMOs for
irrigation and dam construction were also effective under the leadership of the Province, generally
completing their roles on time.

Procurement practices. The bid price of the international contractor for Jiangya Dam (an Italian-Chinese
joint venture) for aggregate supply was about US$18 million lower than the second bidder and about half
of the second bid price. However, during the first year of construction, the Italian contractor wanted to
withdraw from the project because the company was being sold and could not afford to show continued
losses caused by the low contract price for aggregate production. To avoid the consequences of re-bidding,
the owner agreed on payment of compensation of Y 130 million. This shows the risk of awarding a contract
to a low bidder when the total bid price and/or some key unit prices are well below those of other bidders.
Nevertheless, the cost of the contract with all variations was well below the estimated cost for the dam at
appraisal and probably substantially lower than it would have been with the second lowest bidder.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was estimated at US$551.9 million at appraisal, but actual costs totaled US$664.6
million, owing largely to increased resettlement and construction costs for Jiangya Dam as well as small
cost increases for irrigation works in Hunan. Overall costs in Hubei were essentially as appraised.

Part A - HUBEI Component
Actual project costs were US$174.4 million and almost identical to the SAR estimate of US$174.8 million.
The Bank Group's share of project costs was US$79.8 million compared to US$80.0 million at appraisal.
The difference is due to both minor changes in exchange rates and to greater counterpart contributions at
lower levels for local cost items. Compared to appraisal estimates local level self-financing increased by
60%. The proportion of Bank funds used for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) was reduced with a



                                                    - 21 -

corresponding increase in procurement through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and local shopping.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Actual project costs were US$490.2 million compared to US$377.1 million estimated at appraisal. Major
increases in costs were associated with resettlement, works, labor and miscellaneous costs for Jiangya Dam
(actual cost US$397 million compared to US$290 million at appraisal). The main reasons for the cost
increase are the costs of resettlement (increasing from US$29.5 million to US$83.7 million), increased
costs of technical assistance and training (increasing from US$4.6 to US$8.2 million) and raising of the
dam crest by 3 meters (additional cost of US$8 million). There were also unexpected large variations in the
SDR/dollar exchange rate. However, despite increased costs for aggregate supply, total materials costs for
Jiangya Dam were actually lower than estimated at appraisal. Most of the remaining cost increases in
Hunan were due to the increased cost of main canal construction and lining in the two irrigation districts.
The Bank Group's share of total costs was US$125.9 compared to US$128 million estimated at appraisal.
The additional financing needed was largely made up from Government (US$90.9 million), and domestic
bank loans (US$23.9 million), while farmers contributed an extra US$1.0 million, mainly for additional
field works not anticipated at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project in both Hubei and Hunan is likely. Overall strengthening of institutions under
the project has generally been effective, although sustainability of the fertilizer blending plants in Hubei is
uncertain. In both Hubei and Hunan, the Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage District (SIDD) model for
irrigation and water supply reform has been created, established, tested, accepted and supported, and as a
result of success in both provinces is spreading to other parts of China. The self-financing approach with
farmer management of irrigation is a positive step in both provinces.            A system for comprehensive
irrigation district is now established which is proven sustainable and will help generate local funding for
local level O&M and hopefully infrastructure improvement also, and promote further policy reform in
water resources management. Institutional and technological innovations designed into the project in
various components were all aimed at modernization, productivity improvement, rational use of natural
resources and reduction in risk from natural disaster and have been accepted and integrated into
departmental policy in both provinces to varying degrees, especially in the Water Resource Bureaus
(WRBs). All of these factors will be increasingly important as the impact of World Trade Organization
(WTO) accession spreads in China.              Unfortunately, the poor results of the Soil Improvement
sub-component in Hubei, in particular for the fertilizer plants, confirm the negative experiences of other
Bank projects in lending for agro-industry and agro-processing. These types of investments are now
generally not financed under Bank projects in China, as current Bank lending policy allocates such
activities to the private sector. The sub-component did, however, introduce the concept of blending
fertilizers on the basis of soil fertility and crop requirements and thereby established demand for blended
fertilizers, and fertilizer blending plant activities developed under the project may well be improved to take
advantage of that demand by transferring them to private sector operation and management.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Part A - HUBEI Component
Hubei Provincial government support for the SIDD reforms has been strong, a special SIDD unit has been
established in the Provincial WRB, and the Province it has stated it's clear objective of spreading SIDDs
and especially WUAs throughout the province. Although the Province has not yet prepared specific
long-term plans for maintenance of project initiatives on SIDD formation which started under the project,
municipal governments have generally taken the lead to provide continuing policy support. At Zhanghe and



                                                        - 22 -

Dongfeng, WSCs and WUAs are already well established and cover all or a sizable part of the irrigated
areas, and it is likely they will continue to be responsible for management of the systems and be
sustainable. In the other subproject areas, WUAs are likely to be the standard management method for
local O&M, although maintaining a clear separation of the municipal and township governments from
WUA management, which is essential for their long-run success, has been a problem. WSCs are likely to
continue at those sites, but their financial viability and sustainability is in question until cost can be reduced
and water charges raised. Even where WSCs are not viable, sustainability should not be an issue because
system management responsibility will revert back to local WRB operating divisions according to standard
practice, although in the long-run this will not solve the problem of the "vicious cycle" of irrigation
degradation. It should be emphasized here that the role of local township and village administrations in
rural taxation has been severely modified and limited in recent years, especially as applied to water by State
Council Regulation No. 45 (SC-45) in September 2002; in addition to limiting fee and charges collection
by townships, SC-45 provides for collection of water charges by WUAs. SC-45 is thus likely to provide
even greater incentives for strong support of WUA development by Provincial and local WRBs in Hubei as
a means for collection of water charges on which the WRBs depend for salaries and operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems.

Non-water Aquaculture, Livestock, Soil Improvement and Forestry sub-components were originally
intended to be self-financing and indeed they were partly justified at appraisal as a means to produce profits
to repay the Bank loan, since irrigation was viewed as a social investment. Non-water sub-components are
currently commercially viable, but not sufficiently so to carry the entire Bank loan. Spreading of project
influence will depend on incorporation of lessons learned in either new Bank or other lender/donor activities
(as in the case of Forestry with regard to the technical standards in the new Bank-supported Sustainable
Forestry Project) or private sector development (for example, grassland development for dairy under a
private enterprise at Yichang). The largest uncertainty concerns the future of the Soil Improvement
sub-component, especially the fertilizer plants and related facilities as Agriculture Bureau-run operations.
However, the concept of blending fertilizers to match local conditions has been demonstrated, demand for
the service has been established, and the plants can be transferred to private operation and management
(and perhaps ownership) if necessary. Although the blending plants are commercially viable under present
Bureau management and market conditions with low fertilizer prices, they will be hard-pressed financially
when investment for new equipment is required; at that time the Provincial Government may need to decide
on whether to retain Bureau operation or transfer them to private ownership and management. Regardless
of what decision is reached then, however, soil fertility testing and other related extension services will need
to be continued under the Agriculture Bureau and government budgets, as it is unlikely that long-term
market prices for fertilizer will ever be consistently high enough to cover those costs since other lower-cost
producers without those costs can always undercut prices.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
The WSCs and WUAs at Tieshan and Liuduzhai are well established, operating efficiently and seem to be
accepted as standard operating procedure, and they are most likely to continue. Especially Tieshan WSC
but also Liuduzhai WSC are financially sustainable, as are almost all the WUAs at both sites. The
Provincial Government has taken the lead in the water sector with the establishment of Water Affairs
Bureaus to separate policy, planning and regulation from water operations, maintenance and management,
and the latter responsibility would be allocated mainly to WSCs and WUAs as an alternative to government
bureau operation. By institutionalizing the SIDD concept, Hunan has established SIDDs as the main
providers of water services in the project areas, and is spreading the concept to other areas. This new
direction is built around the strong WSCs at Tieshan and Liuduzhai. For Jiangya Dam and the Lishui
Basin, the Lishui Hydro and Power Corporation (LHPC) established under the project was chartered, is
accepted as the basin manager and is now financially independent based on the revenues from power and


                                                       - 23 -

flood control services provided by Jiangya Dam constructed under the project. These new water resource
institutions will provide a base for corporatized/commercialized management and sustainability of
project-financed water resource facilities. Fee for service is now clearly established as a WSC and WUA
responsibility and mode of operation, while agricultural taxation per Chinese Law is treated separately as
the responsibility of village and township administrations, although the role of local administrations in rural
taxation has been severely modified and limited in recent years, especially by SC-45 (as explained above
for Hubei). The clear distinction established in Hunan between fee for service versus taxation makes
further progress in SIDD development highly likely and forms a basis and incentive for sustainable
operation and maintenance of project irrigated areas.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall performance, including identification, preparation assistance and appraisal is rated satisfactory.
The Bank's inputs in terms of numbers of staff and consultants was considerable. However, two general
problems were that key personnel had too little time in the field to prepare and appraise activities
adequately, and especially in Hubei there were too many and diverse sub-components which made the
component overly complex and unnecessarily difficult to prepare and appraise within the budgets and time
available. Smaller but more frequent missions with fewer but more specialized staff and a project design
more focused on water resources may have been more cost-effective. Dialogue with the partner provincial
governments to reach an understanding to focus on water resources was undertaken before preparation, but
in the end Hubei insisted on including four non-water components which were partly related to water
resources and which were supposed to help repay the Bank loan. A considerable delay occurred between
identification (1992) and appraisal (1994) owing in part to the long pipeline of Bank activities in China at
the time but also to this disagreement and the complexity of the project in Hubei. Had the two Provinces
not been included under the same project, it is likely that the Hunan component by itself could have been
appraised a year earlier.

The World Bank and FAO together provided five preparation missions and a pre-appraisal mission,
varying in size from one to six persons, to assist the borrower with project preparation prior to appraisal.
The various missions included expertise in irrigation, dam engineering, drainage, water resources, flood
forecasting, water institutions, legal aspects of water resources, agriculture/forestry/livestock, aquaculture,
environment, anthropology/resettlement, economics/rural finance, and project analysis. After problems and
disagreements with the design of non-water components in Hubei were resolved, the overall project was
prepared to an acceptable standard. Subsequent problems with some non-water sub-components occurred
partly as a result of inadequate time during preparation to identify that county government and farmer
commitment was lacking in some cases, especially for grasslands under the Grasslands/Livestock
sub-component, and also because of efforts to reduce costs and counterpart funding which affected
technical quality of the fertilizer plants in the Soil Improvement sub-component.             Difficulties and
inexperience in estimating the size and requirements of Water User Association (WUA) development
caused a substantial under-estimation of the costs for farm level infrastructure support in irrigation
sub-components, and on the other hand also resulted in a failure to take into account the various substantial
benefits produced by the WUAs in the project analysis. Had the extent of these benefits been previously
known, project design should have included more funding support for both on-farm works and for more
widespread WUA development.

The Bank's performance at Appraisal is also rated satisfactory. The team placed particular emphasis on
SIDD development aspects (5 consultants), engineering (2 staff) and water resources management (2 staff).



                                                    - 24 -

Aquaculture and Environment were covered by two staff and Livestock, Forestry, and Soil Improvement by
one consultant. Special assistance was also provided in procurement (1 staff), economics and finance (2
consultants), legal safeguards (1 staff), and resettlement (1 consultant). The SAR produced was
comprehensive, translated (by the Ministry of Water Resources), and proved to be a useful guide during
implementation. Nevertheless, given the previous experience of the Bank in China and of the consultants
involved (and also hindsight), the project design should have been more circumspect in its involvement with
agro-processing/agro-industry. It should also have taken more time to ensure the commitment of both the
Province and the County/City level governments in Hubei, although it is noted in this regard that all project
counties in Hubei submitted written commitments which obligated them to support the project and provide
adequate counterpart funding; these were requested and reviewed in detail with the government by Bank
missions.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision quality is rated satisfactory, although the quality and comprehensiveness of supervision was
significantly reduced after 1998 due to budget constraints. This had serious repercussions for project
outcomes, especially in Hubei. Supervision was effective and comprehensive up to the Mid-Term Review
(MTR), and provided special assistance in reformulating non-water activities in Hubei as problems arose.
Thereafter, however, limited Bank budgets for supervision constrained the number of mission experts and
caused most supervision effort to be directed toward water resources components and especially WSC and
WUA formation and quality since they were the main focus of the project and involved entirely new
institutional concepts in China. Due to budget limitations, supervision missions were smaller (usually 2-3
members), could not include experts to cover all topics, and had minimal technical coverage even on core
engineering and agricultural aspects. Staff continuity was very good given the long period of
implementation, and supervision albeit limited in coverage was usually conducted twice per year
throughout implementation. Every supervision mission included at least one resettlement expert for Jiangya
Dam resettlement. The Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) organized by LHPC with Bank advice visited
Jiangya Dam twice per year up to the end of 2001, when the dam was essentially complete, and provided
some technical back-up for Bank supervision missions. Although from the beginning the Hubei CPMO
consistently provided simple monitoring data and tables which was very useful for supervision missions,
project management and Bank supervision would both have benefited from a more comprehensive
monitoring system similar to that developed in Hunan to provide more detailed data and evaluation
analysis; initial technical expert support for management information system development was provided to
the CPMO during Bank supervision in 1997, but later budgets were too limited to enable follow-up. A
more consistent and complete response by the CPMO in Hubei to ensure action on Bank supervision
mission recommendations, especially in the early years, would probably have benefited implementation, but
in any event Bank supervision missions after 1998 did not have the expert resources to provide consistent
follow-up and advice on all sub-components.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, although it could have been better if supervision budgets
had been adequate after 1998. The project objectives responded to both Bank and Borrower priorities in the
water sector in both provinces, and attempted to provide a consensus on design and objectives for
non-water and agricultural development components in Hubei. Project preparation and appraisal were
sound but suffered from a complex design which combined both water resource development and
agriculture including agro-industry. A single clear focus on water resource improvement and management
in Hubei would have produced benefits from increased agricultural productivity in any case. Agricultural
sub-components could instead have been focused on direct agricultural support to WUAs instead of being
treated independently. Supervision was conscientious and adequate in terms of identifying issues, but after
1998 suffered from lack of budget resources for needed experts to provide oversight, follow-up and expert



                                                    - 25 -

advice to help resolve issues.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Part A - HUBEI Component
Project preparation by the borrower was satisfactory, although more attention paid in project design to the
views of Bank mission experts might have avoided a number of problems which subsequently occurred
with the non-water components. Considerable preparation effort had previously been expended on
agricultural aspects for a prospective agricultural development project, prior to identification of the
Bank-financed project which focused on water resources. The implementing agencies worked closely with
the Bank in preparation of infrastructure improvement activities according to established priorities.
Funding involvement also included some on-farm works as part of WUA development, which was an
innovation and worked well; standard domestic practice is to leave most on-farm level investments to local
communities and not include them in project funding. The preparation of agricultural sub-components also
suffered from disagreement over the emphasis to be placed on poverty alleviation which caused a change in
priorities. Nevertheless, after agreement was reached on all components, cooperation was sincere, open
and effective in all implementing agencies.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Project preparation by the Borrower was satisfactory. Preparation of designs for Jiangya Dam had
commenced in the 1960s and included physical model testing and geological testing (core drillings) for the
foundation, although some of the cores had to be repeated because the maps to locate each of the drilling
sites were missing. In addition, Jiangya Dam was not designed to take full advantage of the relatively new
roller compacted concrete (RCC) construction technique, which slowed the construction process somewhat
due to extra forming required for conventional concrete components of the structure. The main value added
by Bank involvement in infrastructure, other than funding, was with regard to Jiangya Dam, which was to
be the highest dam in the world using RCC construction technology. The Bank provided extensive
technical review of Jiangya plans by Bank specialists and consultant experts, assistance in identifying
international dam design, construction, and foundation experts and RCC specialist experts for the dam
safety panel, help in identifying and evaluating the special RCC advisor subsequently used by the
consultant firm employed to oversee construction of the dam, assistance in review and design of the
resettlement and environmental programs for the dam, and institutional advice on how to set up the new
Lishui Hydro and Power Corporation as a river basin management agency as well as Owner of the dam.
Design of the irrigation subprojects had commenced in the early 1980s. The irrigation subprojects were to
be for new construction, rather than rehabilitation as in Hubei. Irrigation designs were adequate, but they
were based on conventional Chinese design standards of the times and did not incorporate modern,
cost-effective elements for better water regulation and more efficient operation, such as long-crested weirs
to control and maintain constant water levels at branch off takes during low flows or sufficient water
measuring and monitoring facilities lower in the systems. Both Provinces and the Ministry of Water
Resources (MWR) cooperated closely with the Bank during preparation in designing and introducing
innovations in water resource management, in particular the SIDDs (WSCs and WUAs) for irrigation
management and LHPC as a unified river basin manager. More might have been achieved with innovations
in irrigation infrastructure design with regard to water regulation, water measurement, canal lining and
remote monitoring, given the knowledge base available at that time, and would have greatly benefited
project performance.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Part A - HUBEI Component
Provincial Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory, and the project was completed as



                                                    - 26 -

appraised with MTR revisions, on schedule and on budget. However, as discussed in section 5.2 above,
counterpart funding was inadequate during the early years until 1997 when the Provincial Governor
ordered the use of Provincial emergency funds to ensure adequate counterpart funding for the project.
Despite this extra effort, however, early shortfalls could not be made up, and total contributions by the
government at completion compared to the agreed financing plan at appraisal were as follows: Provincial
Planning Commission - 45%; Provincial Finance Department - 60%; County/City Government - 53%; and
lower levels/self-financing - 160%. Increased contributions by farmers and lower levels had to make up for
the government shortfalls in the early years. Although the deficit in counterpart funding at higher levels
was largely made up, government shortfalls slowed and sometimes disrupted implementation progress and
in some cases reduced technical standards, and the government was unable to provide counterpart funds at
agreed levels despite Bank recommendations during supervision. In addition, more adequate follow-up
support for the Provincial fertilizer corporation as recommended during Bank supervision might have
improved sustainability prospects for project fertilizer industry activities.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Government implementation performance at all levels is rated highly satisfactory. Provincial government
support for poverty alleviation, water sector reform, engineering safety and innovation, project monitoring
and maintenance of high standards for resettlement all demonstrated a commitment to high development
standards which was well above average, although management arrangements for Jiangya Dam
construction were cause for concern in the early stages. The Provincial Government provided both financial
and policy support and was prepared to institutionalize change originating in the project when it saw the
benefits. The Provincial Government and Municipal Governments provided leadership which assisted in,
for example, separation of fees from taxes, a keystone for SIDD success. By acting to develop independent
Corporations for future management of large project assets, such as Jiangya Dam and Tieshan and
Liuduzhai Irrigation Districts, the Provincial and Municipal Governments have provided for sustainability
of regular operations. Unfortunately, however, start-up of the Tieshan canal regulation study by French
consultants was so delayed that the results were not available until the end of the project, although the
results were good and potentially very useful; had this been completed on schedule, the results might helped
guide implementation of the Tieshan and Liuduzhai subprojects in the introduction of improved water
regulation facilities during the project. Although the project did not include a specific agricultural support
component for the irrigation areas, the government provided training in agriculture to farmers during
implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Part A - HUBEI Component
Implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory. The Leading Group and its Project Office, and the
Comprehensive PMO (CPMO) formed in the Provincial Planning Commission to coordinate and assist
cooperating Bureaus, were supportive of the project and cooperated closely with the Bank within the
bounds of the policy and funding framework set for them by the Provincial Government. Nevertheless
performance could have been improved by establishment of better project monitoring, either in-house or by
contract, during implementation, and by closer attention to auditing and regular updating of accounts. The
performance of individual bureau PMO implementation teams (Water Resources, Animal Husbandry,
Forestry, Aquaculture, and Agriculture) was conscientious and dedicated throughout implementation and,
with solid commitment by farmers and village governments, provided the basis for a generally successful
project and good benefits.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component
Implementing agency performance is rated highly satisfactory. Strong leadership and effective financial and
technical management were consistent features of PMO/implementing agency performance in all



                                                     - 27 -

sub-components. Data provided by the Borrower's ICR team was accurate and unbiased and was gathered
well ahead of completion. PMOs were adequately staffed with well trained technical and financial staff led
by capable managers who used a systematic approach to ensure effective implementation at all levels.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Despite difficulties with counterpart funding in Hubei,
the project in both Hubei and Hunan has achieved its original or revised implementation objectives and has
gone well beyond those objectives in a number of areas of institutional and technical innovation.

8. Lessons Learned

Overall Lessons

Overall lessons learned from the preparation and implementation of this project are summarized as follows:

(i) For irrigation projects, SIDD irrigation management reforms, based on WSCs and farmer WUAs and
integrated into the project as a component, provide large benefits including benefits to poor and vulnerable
groups. These benefits are demonstrated by the rates of return at completion for irrigation subprojects,
which were all well above appraisal estimates and roughly correlated with the degree of WSC and
especially WUA development. The fact that similar results were achieved in both Hubei and Hunan, each
with different conditions, shows that the success of the SIDD reforms is not a special case and they are
applicable and sustainable over a range of conditions. The WUAs in particular show the large benefits of
irrigation management transfer to effective and well-organized farmer-run WUAs with active farmer
leadership and participation in irrigation management. However, for long-run sustainability and viability,
it is essential that WUAs are high quality and follow the key quality principles, have maximum
participation and control by farmers, and receive continued policy and technical support by government;
the key quality principles are that WUAs should be the farmers' own organization, be based on hydraulic
boundaries, have measured volumetric water charges, and collect water charges and pay them directly to
the WSC or supplier. And, although it has now been agreed at MWR suggestion to change "self-financing"
to "self-managing" in the acronym SIDD, it is essential that WSCs and WUAs be self-financing in order to
be sustainable, independent and free from government control and bureaucratic interference in the long-run.

(ii) A clear focus is required at the outset on the main objective -- either water resources development and
management, or agricultural productivity improvement (in the non-water sectors). The former objective is
appropriate to a water resources project, the latter to a comprehensive agricultural development project.
Where agricultural support to irrigation has to be provided, it may be more effectively implemented at the
lower levels or even by beneficiaries by contracting for the services most required.

(iii) Related to the above is that, with more focused and simplified project design, single agency (e.g., one
technical Bureau) management control would be possible and also more efficient. Especially for technical
projects, the single agency approach as used in Hunan appears to be more effective compared to the more
complex management and coordination arrangements involving the Provincial Planning Commission as
used in Hubei.

(iv) Two or multiple provinces should not be combined under a single Bank-financed project when the
components in the two provinces are so different and when there is no central agency to coordinate the two.
There are no economies of scale under such circumstances, and it puts an exceptionally heavy burden on
the Bank to provide adequate preparation, supervision and coordination since each province is in practice a
separate project. In this case, given the different preferences of the two provinces, a better configuration
may have been a separate general agricultural development project in Hubei, and a water resources project
in Hunan, with better results in both cases. (This issue is, however, complicated by the fact that the



                                                    - 28 -

original project included a component under MWR for a Yangtze River Flood Forecasting and Warning
System; had that component remained in the project, MWR could have provided central coordination.)

(v) Reduced Bank supervision budgets can affect project outcomes and overall project quality at
completion, especially for complex and/or innovative projects.          This project was both complex and
innovative and suffered after the reduction in supervision budgets which occurred starting in 1998. Several
important aspects suffered especially from lack of critical technical expertise and oversight on Bank
supervision missions, in particular the complex technical and institutional issues related to the non-water
subprojects in Hubei. Had a relatively small amount of expert technical advise, oversight and follow-up
been provided at the right time, many problems with the non-water subprojects could likely have been
avoided or mitigated and Hubei might have achieved a "highly satisfactory" rating at completion. Before
1998, fortunately, supervision budgets were adequate, which helped enable a good start for the SIDD
program and Jiangya Dam; thereafter, reduced supervision resources were concentrated on those activities,
and safeguard issues, to help ensure that at least they would be successful and safeguard requirements met.
The impact of the reduction in supervision budgets on Bank value-added after 1998 can be seen in the
composition of supervision missions in Annex 4.

Part A - HUBEI Component

The detailed lessons learned in Hubei may be summarized as follows:

(i) In complex projects more time spent in preparation and prior agreement with the borrower will give
better results in greater local ownership and adequate integration of activities toward a common goal.
Improved ownership of initiatives and innovations may also contribute to improved counterpart funding
support by Government. Complex projects also require more resources for both management and Bank
supervision.

(ii) The Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District (SIDD) concept with WSCs and WUAs has many
benefits for farmers (higher crop yields, higher crop intensity, increased area irrigated, water savings, labor
savings, benefits to poor and vulnerable groups, etc.) and for those responsible for the investment in and
operation of irrigation systems. The WSCs need to have adequate revenue to be viable, but they should be
managed and operated as efficient business entities in their own right before seeking to raise farmer water
charges to cover their inflated staff and operating costs. To do this, they may need to reduce the number of
full time employees and use contractors where they operate for a restricted irrigation season, and pensions
of former government employees should be the responsibility of the government not the WSCs. WSC
institutional establishment costs such as pension requirements, restructuring, and staff rationalization and
downsizing should treated as project investments in initial project design and included as a specific
component under the project. Both fixed and volumetric water charges should be used together, and should
be transparent to farmers, and water charges should be increased to cover loan repayment but only after
WSC operating and staff costs are minimized. An adequate physical and financial monitoring system
should be developed to identify areas for efficiency improvement/cost reduction in WSC operation and in
calculating appropriate water charges.

(iii)    The activities for WUA formation and strengthening should be integrated with the
construction/rehabilitation program for the main irrigation facilities, and linked to assessment of
infrastructure improvement needs for the whole system, including those at the WUA level. It is essential
that the main system be able to supply reliable and timely water supplies as needed by the WUAs, and that
the lower level distribution systems can be efficiently operated by the WUAs (farmers).




                                                     - 29 -

(iv) Future investment in SIDD development should incorporate agricultural technical support to farmers,
perhaps through the WUAs, to maximize benefits and water use efficiency. Farmers could contract for the
technical assistance or training they require to provide incentives and also minimize the number of
cooperating Bureaus to be coordinated under the project.

(v) Agricultural investments for agro-processing/agro-industry in particular must have adequate domestic
and international finance, strong technical support, improved management capacity, adequate marketing
studies and advanced technical design and materials. Such investments should be private as much as
possible or management and/or ownership transferred to private operators.

(vi) Non-water components were considered during project preparation to be commercial investments. But
to be successful as such they should be designed, managed and operated as commercial ventures rather than
government bureau activities. Forestry and Grassland investments, for example, can be successful if they
are treated as a productive asset with an ultimate downstream market, in the same manner as a crop.
Reduced forest planting density, appropriate use of fertilizer, and attention to nursery quality, have all
contributed to increased productivity of Forestry assets. Grassland investment was successful when linked
to high value-added enterprises such as dairy rather than simple beef production, and a package of high
technology Livestock investments have shown that very large increases in productivity of the beef herd in
Hubei can be achieved at minimal cost through breed improvement. Aquaculture investments are sound but
should focus on sound technology and management and avoid apparently high return but excessively
market sensitive and unstable enterprises such as turtle production. For all sub-components, marketing
studies are essential to anticipate price changes, especially for specialized production.

Part B ­ HUNAN Component

The lessons detailed learned in Hunan may be summarized as follows:

(i) The Provincial PMO considers that World Bank financing presents advantages in terms of funding for
very large projects, which is not available domestically, as well as institutional development and capacity
building. In particular, the project has shown the value of Bank financing of human resources development
and institutional reform at lower levels to complement domestic skills in large-scale engineering. In this
respect, the project represents a very effective demonstration of the power of partnership between the
State, Province, local government, farmer beneficiaries and the Bank to achieve institutional reform, reduce
poverty in rural areas, and improve management and coordination at higher levels. A relatively small
investment per hectare by the Bank in on-farm infrastructure irrigation facilities and institutions like
WUAs as part of an irrigation sector program could have exceptionally large benefits for China.

(ii) Where possible, technically complex water resource projects will benefit from a clear focus on
development of the water resource base and institutions. Project management at all levels in Hunan
benefited from single agency control.        The key features of successful management in Hunan were
leadership, teamwork and delegation of responsibility, and unified authority, responsibility and
accountability.

(iii) The Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District (SIDD) concept appears to be highly sustainable
in Hunan. However, the Water Supply Corporations must plan now for a future with relative scarcity of
water at the river basin level, and give more attention to more accurate volumetric measurement of water,
specific water saving and efficiency investments, monitoring of water flows and deliveries, accounting for
water sales, and database preparation for effective planning.




                                                     - 30 -

(iv) SIDD development, through its encouragement of farmer self-management of water, has encouraged
crop diversification, efficient resource use, self-funding of further improvements and greater labor
productivity. It has also given farmers influence in the management of the irrigation supply and especially
the quality and quantity of irrigation services provided by the WSC to the WUAs. This is achieved by
giving the WUAs and farmers voice in WSC management decisions; at Tieshan and Liuduzhai (and also in
Hubei), WUAs comprise 40-50% of WSC Board membership.                    Benefits from their influence and
improvement in service delivery are obvious and transparent.

(v) Separation of irrigation operations from local governments through the WSCs and WUAs has also
reinforced the necessary separation of fee-for-service from local taxes and unofficial fees (which are now
forbidden), and has provided a mechanism for water management independent of government and its
interference and other responsibilities. SIDD development thus provides a much better base for farmers in
Hunan to address the new challenges of World Trade Organization membership.

(vi) The project has demonstrated a clear need to consider incremental benefits from domestic and
industrial water supply and power generation and integrate those activities into the identification and
preparation of future irrigation projects. Such project should be viewed as comprehensive water resource
management projects, rather than single purpose projects. In addition, where the share of both total water
use for irrigation and income from irrigation water sales is small, increases in the price of water for farmers
to cover loan repayment should be related to the share of water they actually use.

(vii) There are, however, practical problems associated with Bank funding. In particular, the appraisal
process is too slow, giving the impression that Bank financing is too difficult and time consuming to obtain.
This may have been partly the result of the involvement of more than one province, and also the long
pipeline of projects in line for funding at a time of rapid Bank lending growth in China. In addition, Bank
requirements for safeguard issues such as resettlement and environment seem onerous, overly complex and
demanding, and ultimately too expensive for the Borrower to afford, compared to the perceived benefits.
Project field staff also commented that Bank procurement requirements for single large contractors in
construction (packaging of contracts) often did not suit local conditions and did not result in generation of
maximum opportunities for local employment in construction.

(viii) Bank procurement requirements can also create problems during implementation if not applied
carefully with adequate expertise and technical oversight. The lowest evaluated bidder for Jiangya Dam
was awarded the contract, but as it turned out that bidder had underestimated the cost of a key item,
aggregate. In addition to evaluation for meeting Bank requirements, ICB bids should be scrutinized
carefully and compared to ensure that the low bidder has not underestimated any critical cost items. For
Jiangya Dam, the low-bidder's mistake on the aggregate very nearly stopped construction and required
rebidding, which at that stage would probably have meant at the least serious delays and significantly
increased costs. There should be no pressure to accept the "low bidder" automatically or in isolation from
the content of other bids.




                                                     - 31 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 32 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers for this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.




                                               - 33 -

10. Additional Information

A. Additional Comments

The project had a number of outstanding technical and institutional achievements, including: construction
of the tallest RCC dam in the world (at its completion) in just over three years; development and spread of
the SIDD system with farmer WSCs and WUAs, the latter of which has spread to many other provinces
and has become a standard model for irrigation management in China; establishment of LHPC as a unified
river basin management agency, which was perhaps the first in China; establishment of the Hubei Fish
Farmers Association; and completion of resettlement of Jiangya Dam to very high standards which is used
as an example of high quality resettlement in China. These special achievements are in addition to generally
good physical implementation in both provinces with physical completion of all sub-components as planned
or modified at the MTR on schedule (except Dongting Lake Research) and generally on or near budget
(except Jiangya Dam, largely because of increased resettlement costs).          Among these achievements,
however, the development and proving of the SIDD model with WSCs and especially farmer-managed
WUAs is perhaps the most significant in the long run. Because of their success in both Hubei and Hunan
starting from 1995, WUAs have spread widely and are now recognized and supported at high levels,
including in speeches by the Minister of Water Resources, as a key method of irrigation management
reform. Given the type of benefits produced by participatory WUAs, especially water saving due mainly to
water purchase by volume, they may also be seen as part of the solution to China's growing water shortage
which some experts consider a crises, especially in North China. It must be emphasized first and foremost,
however, that the WUAs and WSCs were in fact ideas of the two respective provinces during preparation -
Hubei had already experimented with precursors of WUAs, and Hunan already wanted to establish a WSC
at Tieshan - although in neither case had plans and methodologies been developed to make the reform
concepts operational.    The primary value-added of World Bank participation during preparation and
implementation in this case, along with providing funding, was to support the development and evolution
of these two new organizational concepts into a practical operational model for irrigation management, and
to integrate them together into the Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage District (SIDD) institutional
structure for top-to-bottom irrigation system management reform. The large benefits of SIDD institutional
development are demonstrated in this project by the differences in ERRs between irrigation subprojects at
completion compared to appraisal estimates, with the differences more or less correlated positively with the
degree of SIDD/WUA development at each site (see Annex 3 table).               The clear benefits of farmer
participation and WUAs demonstrated under this project have led to their expansion to many other
provinces of China, under both Bank and domestic projects.

B. SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program

The amount of IDA financing used for the Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project was about US$0.2
million less than the amount estimated at appraisal. This modest reduction stems from exchange rate
changes during implementation. In 2003, the Borrower and IDA agreed to use these cost savings to
support a "SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program" in China. In combination with savings
reallocated from several other projects and in collaboration with other donors, the SARS and Infectious
Diseases Response Program in China will (a) address emergency needs for SARS-related diagnosis, clinical
management, and personal protection that are necessary to bring the current epidemic fully under control,
and (b) support the Government's efforts to strengthen the capacity of the public health system more
generally so that China's health system is prepared to combat the possible re-emergence of SARS and,
equally important, similar infectious disease threats that might occur in the future. The reallocation for the



                                                    - 34 -

SARS Program was approved by the Board on June 19, 2003. A separate assessment on the Program will
be carried out within six months of the revised closing date for the Credit, which is currently May 2004,
and would supplement this ICR.




                                                  - 35 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1a. Key Performance Indicators
HUBEI Component

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                                      Projected in the SAR                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            Area                Yield             Output             Area               Yield             Output
Agricultural production increased         1000 ha              ton/ha            1000 ton          1000 ha             ton/ha             1000 ton

Irrigation & Drainage Sub-project
 Sihu Irrigation area                             51.90                4.96             257.50             38.27               8.42              322.36
 Zhanghe Irrigation area                          75.07                4.67             350.71             68.70               4.31              295.98
 Yindan Irrigation area                         157.26                 3.94             620.15           150.88               3.99               601.90
 Wenxia Irrigation area                          176.10                4.91             864.69           134.25                4.91              658.81
 Dongfeng Irrigation area                         25.30                1.73              43.82             48.45               1.85               89.68
Aquaculture Sub-project
 Intensive lake                                 113.33                 0.11              12.11             10.18               0.25               25.11
 Improved intensive pond                           0.37                7.50               2.74              0.37               7.75                2.83
 New intensive pond                                0.22                7.50               1.62              0.22               7.95                1.71
 Improved fingerling pond                          0.21                6.00               1.27              0.21               7.16                1.47
 New fingerling pond                               0.12                6.00               0.72              0.12               7.09                0.83
 New hatchery                                      5 ha               10.00          50.00 ton              5 ha              11.7            58.30 ton
Forestry Sub-project
 Economic forestry                                 5.73                 7.15             40.96              5.80               7.20               41.50
 Timber                                            5.00       144.10 cu.m.       720,500 cu.m.              6.10       100.60 cu.m.      613,500 cu.m.
 Protection forestry                               6.00          46.11 cu.m     276,680 cu. m.              5.70        53.40 cu.m.      304,500 cu.m.
Livestock Sub-project
  Grassland developed                       19.73/1.69*                 4.50              7.60              1.69               3.50                5.92
  Breed improvement                   Import 13 breeding cattle, increase semen freezing      Import 13 breeding cattle and one set of tubular semen
  Genetic gain in meat production     equipment, and genetic gain in meat production of       freezing equipment; 1800,000 head of cattle improved,
                                      improved breed beef animals.                            genetic gain > 15 (up to 60%).
Farm Household Income Increased         Family Size       Net Income in     Income Per Capita    Family Size       Net Income in    Income Per Capita
                                                          Year 8 (Yuan)                                            year 6 (Yuan)
 Dongfeng                                          4.00             5658.00            1414.50              4.00          14086.00              2826.80
 Zhange                                            4.00             6544.00            1636.00              4.00          15421.00              2875.40
 Yindan                                            4.00             8455.00            2113.80              5.00          14890.00              2523.60
 Wenxia                                            4.00             6335.00            1583.80              4.00          13849.00              1792.80
 Sihu                                              5.00             9522.00            2380.50              5.00          22104.00              3292.80
Development of SIDD
 Establishment of WUAs ( project)                                 59                                                    102

 Establishment of WSCs ( project)                                 9                                                      13

Irrigation area covered                                          n.a.                                                70,400 ha
Irrigation efficiency (baseline 50%)                          70-75%                                                   62-85%




                                                                     - 36 -

Annex 1a. Key Performance Indicators
HUNAN Component

Outcome / Impact Indicators:

Indicator/Matrix                                   Projected in the SAR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Farm Household Income Increased         Family Size  Net Income in    Income Per    Family Size  Net Income in Income Per Capita
                                                     year 8 (Yuan)    Capita (Yuan)              year 6 (Yuan)       (Yuan)
 Liuduzhai                                         5            3231           646.2           5         3596.7             719.3
 Tieshan                                           4            3087           771.8           4         2472.8             618.2
Agricultural production increased         Area           Yield          Output        Area           Yield            Output
Tieshan                                  1000 ha         ton/ha        1000 ton      1000 ha        ton/ha           1000 ton
 Paddy                                         8.20              6.26          51.29        1.81            6.91            12.48
 Other grain                                   8.72              5.42          47.26       7.02             9.10            63.84
 Cash crop                                     6.96              1.29           8.98       20.46            1.59            32.48
 Vegetable                                     0.00             0.00           0.00        20.44           32.00           654.08
Liuduzhai
 Paddy                                        34.56             6.12          211.55       21.94            7.18           157.64
 Other grain                                   8.90            13.48          119.92        2.29           17.72            40.61
 Cash crop                                     5.31             3.31           17.58        9.34            9.84            91.91
 Vegetable                                     0.00             0.00           0.00        28.50            7.41           211.09
Incremental Irrigated area
 Tieshan                                                 5763 ha                                      5,763ha
 Liuduzhai                                               9,324 ha                                    19,205ha
Crop intensity
 Tieshan                                                   2.09                                        2.48
 Liuduzhai                                                  1.7                                         2.5
Development of SIDD
 Establishment of WUAs ( project)                           53                                           60
 Establishment of WSCs ( project)                           n.a.                                         2
Tieshan
 Annual labor saving                                        n.a.                                 15 days/household
 Average financial return to labor                          n.a.                         Y26.6/day compared to Y20 average
Liuduzhai
 Annual labor saving                                        n.a.                                 16 days/household
 Average financial return to labor                          n.a.                     Y31.6/day compared to Y20/day average wage
Jiangya Dam
 Reservoir Capacity                                  1.74 billion m3                              1.85 billion m3
 1 in 100 year flood volume below dam                   3,400 m3/s                                  1,700 m3/s
 Power generation                                  Ave. 769 million KWH                        Ave. 738 million KWH
 Irrigation Flow(m3/s)                                      4.3                                         4.3
 Shiping Capacity per year                              40,000 ton                                  40, 000 ton




                                                          - 37 -

Annex 1b.
HUBEI Component

Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                                      Projected in SAR/MTR*         Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of SAR/MTR*
Irrigation/flood protection
 Land leveling                                    40,377 ha/33,943 ha*            32,890 ha                           82/97
 Embankment improved for lakes and canals         703.6 km/601.6 km*              711.9 km                           101/118
 Embankment lining                                236.5 km /219.1 km*             200.6 km                            85/92
 Retailing and wave walls                         10.12 km                        10.41 km                             103
 Dam strengthening                                12 km                           12 km                                100
 No. of supporting structures & consolidation     2,700/3,406*                    3,376                              125/99
 Aqueducts and tunnels                            13.2 km                         13.2 km                              100
 Earth works                                      33,856,800 m3/33,543,911 m3*    35,085,067 m3                      104/105
 Concrete                                         487,131 m3/492,732 m3*          625,704 m3                         128/127
 Cemented masonry                                 196,317 m3/181,785 m3*          273,992 m3                         140/151
 Irrigation management building                   105,551 m2                      99,418 m2                             94
 Construction machinery                           n.a.                            282 set                              n.a.
 Office equipment                                 n.a.                            377 set                              n.a.
 Communication facilities                         n.a.                            38 set                               n.a.
Forestry
 Protection forest                                6,000 ha/5,709 ha*              5,709 ha                             100
 Timber forest                                    5,000 ha/4,398 ha*              4,398 ha                             100
 Economic forest                                  5,718 ha/5,839 ha*              5,839 ha                             100
 Scientific research apparatus                    36 pieces                       36 pieces                            100
 Training station rehabilitated & built           2800 m2                         2800 m2                              100
Aquaculture
 Lake improvement                                 12,593 ha                       11,316 ha                             90
 Nursery ponds rehabilitated                      205 ha                          211 ha                               103
 Production ponds rehabilitated                   365 ha                          365 ha                               100
 Nursery ponds constructed                        117 ha                          117 ha                               100
 Production ponds constructed                     216 ha                          215.4 ha                             100
 No. of hatcheries                                5                               5                                    100
 No. of turtle farm                               1                               1                                    100
 Turtle fry breeding                              4.2 ha                          4.2 ha                               100
 Training center                                  1,000 m2 / 0 *                  0                                     0
 No. of fish farmers' association                 1                               1                                    100
Livestock/Grasslands
 Grassland                                        19,525 ha. / 1,690 ha*          1,690 ha                             100
 No. of breeding centers with imported bulls      18                              36                                   200
 Breed improvement                                Import 13 breeding cattle, and  Import 13 breeding cattle            100
                                                  increase semen freezing         and one set of tubular
                                                  equipment.                      semen freezing equipment;
                                                                                  1800,000 head of cattle
                                                                                  improved .
Soil Improvement
 No. of fertilizer mixing stations                6                               6                                    100
 No. of fertilizer supply stations                19                              19                                   100
 Fertilizer workshops                             15,600 m2                       16,943 m2                            109
 Fertilizer store and sales department            11,000 m2                       11,257 m2                            102
 Rehabilitated research and training facilities   9,900 m2                        9,900 m2                             100
 Research and training equipment                  90 set                          90 set                               100
Technical Assistance
 Training                                         78,975 man/month                78,975 man/month                     100
  Research                                        539.4 man/month                 598.4 man/month                      111
  Consultancy & study                             3,166 man/month                 3,166 man/month                      100
* revised during MTR




                                                                 - 38 -

Annex 1b.
HUNAN Component


Output Indicator
Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in SAR/MTR*                  Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
                                                                                                          Appraisal/MTR
Tieshan Irrigation Scheme
 North main canal construction     28 km                               28 km                                   100
 No. of tunnels                    24 (5.4 km)                         24 (5.4 km)                             100
 No. of aquaducts                  14                                  14                                      100
 No. of sub main canals            2 (24 km)                           2 (24 km)                               100
 No. of branch canals              2 (28 km)                           2 (28 km)                               100
 Supply canal to Yueyang City      2.2 km canal, 3.5 km tunnel         2.2 km canal, 3.5 km tunnel             100
                                   new storage reservoir (10 Mcm)      new storage reservoir (11.7 Mcm)
 Total Irrigated area              25,800 ha.                          25,800 ha.                              100
Liuduzhai Irrigation Scheme
 General main canal                37 km                               37 km                                   100
 East, South, North main canals    91 km                               91km                                    100
 Qishi pump station                800 kw for 1,650 ha/raising Zaizhi  35 meters raised with associated        100
                                   dam 35 meters for 1,650 ha*         diversion canals for 1,650 ha
 Branch canals                     88 km for 4,500 ha.                 88 km for 4,500 ha.                     100
 Total irrigated area              24,200 ha.                          24,200 ha                               100
Jiangya Dam
 Reservoir Capacity                1.74 billion m3                     1.85 billion m3                         106
 Crest Height                      128 m                               131 m                                   102
 Generator capacity (MW)           300                                 300                                     100
 No. of generators                 3                                   3                                       100
 Power generation                  Ave. 769 million KWh                Ave. 738 million KWh                     96
* revised during MTR




                                                         - 39 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                        US$ million  US$ million
Project Cost by Sub-Component
Hubei Component
  Zhanghe Irrigation Area                                 16.30         17.90          109.8
  Dongfeng Irrigation Area                                16.64         19.79          118.9
  Yindan Irrigation Area                                  20.03         24.16          120.6
  Wenxia Irrigation Area                                  13.30         13.65          102.6
  Sihu Irrigation Area                                    35.64         24.46           68.6
  Aquaculture                                             12.31         16.24          131.9
  Forestry                                                 8.04           9.83         122.2
  Grasslands/Livestock                                    10.63           6.62          62.3
  Soil Improvement                                         9.40         16.06          170.9
  PMO/WRB Support                                            0.0        25.68            n.a.
               Sub-total Hubei                           142.29        174.39          122.6
Hunan Component
  Jiangya Dam                                            244.28        396.52          162.3
  Tieshan Irrigation District                             33.93         46.74          137.7
  Liuduzhai Irrigation District                           30.47         40.75          133.8
  Dongting Lake Research                                   2.28           2.32         101.3
  Lishui Power Corporation                                 2.18           2.78         127.8
  PMO/WRB Support                                          1.28           1.10          87.0
               Sub-total Hunan                           314.42        490.21          155.9


Total Baseline Cost                                      456.71
Physical Contingencies                                    37.28            0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                       57.90            0.0           0.0
                       Total Project Costs               551.90        664.60          120.4
                Total Financing Required                 551.90        664.60          120.4




                                                - 40 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Procurement      Method  1
   Expenditure Category                ICB                 NCB                               N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                          Other  2
1. Works                               70.00              129.90           46.00              62.50           308.50
                                      (39.00)             (39.80)         (19.50)             (0.00)          (98.30)
2. Goods                               81.70               39.00            8.20              31.40           160.30
                                      (59.50)             (24.50)          (5.20)             (0.00)          (89.20)
3. Services                            0.00                0.00            22.50               0.00           22.50
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)          (22.50)             (0.00)          (22.50)
4. Others3                             0.00                0.00             0.00              60.60           60.60
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)
    Total Project                     151.70              168.90           76.70             154.60           551.90
                                      (98.50)             (64.30)         (47.20)             (0.00)         (210.00)
1   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, force account,
    consulting services, training, technical assistance services, etc.
3   Includes the project management and land acquisition.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Procurement      Method  1
   Expenditure Category                ICB                 NCB                               N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                          Other  2
1. Works                               79.40              101.80          121.78              83.60           386.58
                                      (47.50)             (64.85)         (22.69)             (0.00)         (135.04)
2. Goods                               39.57               26.29           39.20               0.00           105.06
                                      (34.69)             (17.61)         (14.15)             (0.00)          (66.45)
3. Services                            1.41                7.37            32.08               0.00           40.86
                                      (0.83)              (3.43)           (2.15)             (0.00)          (6.41)
4. Others3                             0.00                0.00           130.40               1.70           132.10
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)
    Total Project                     120.38              135.46          323.46              85.30           664.60
                                      (83.02)             (85.89)         (38.99)             (0.00)         (207.90)
1   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, force account,
    consulting services, training, technical assistance services, etc.
3   Includes the project management and land acquisition.




                                                        - 41 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) Hubei

      Component              Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal
                            Bank   Govt.   Farmer     Bank    Govt.    Farmer     Bank    Govt.   Farmer
Zhanghe Irrigation Area     9.1     6.5       4.4       8.4    3.9        6.0      92      58       136
Dongfeng Irrigation Area    9.8     6.8       3.7       8.8    2.3        8.8      90      32       238
Yindan Irrigation Area      10.4    7.5       6.9      11.3    3.3        9.7     109      43       140



Wenxia Irrigation Area      7.3     5.1       3.9       5.9    1.4        6.4      81      25       164
Sihu Irrigation Area        19.8   13.9       9.7      10.3    2.7       11.7      52      19       121
Aquaculture                 6.9     4.9       3.8       6.9    4.9        4.4     100      100      116
Forestry                    5.1     3.5       1.6       4.7    2.9        2.3      92      83       144
Grasslands/Livestock        6.2     4.3       2.6       2.9    1.5        2.3      45      35        88
Soil Improvement            5.5     3.8       1.8       8.7    1.8        4.2     132      47       233
PMO/WRB Support             0.0     0.0       0.0      11.9    6.3        7.8      n.a.    n.a.      n.a.
   Total                    80.0   56.5      38.3      79.8    30.9      63.6      98      54       166


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) Hunan

    Component               Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate         Percentage of Appraisal
                       Bank Govt.   Farmer   Local   Bank   Govt.   Farmer   Local  Bank    Govt.  Farmer Local
                                             Bank                            Bank                          Bank
Jiangya Dam             95.0  151.0     0.0   44.2    94.4  234.0     24.4   44.2      99    153      n.a.  100
Tieshan Irrigation      16.0  164.3   12.4     0.0    14.8   11.9     20.1    0.0      92    222     162    n.a.
Liuduzhai Irrigation    16.0   15.9     7.0    0.0    15.9   16.6      8.2    0.0      99    104     117    n.a.
Dongting Lake           1.0     1.5     0.0    0.0     1.0    1.5      0.0    0.0    100     100      n.a.  n.a.
Improvement
Lishui Power Corp.      1.0     1.4     0.0    0.0     0.9    1.9      0.0    0.0    100     135      n.a.  n.a.
PMO/WRB Support         1.0     0.4     0.0    0.0     0.4    0.0      0.0    0.0      40    n.a.     n.a.  n.a.
  Total                130.0  183.5   19.4    44.2   127.4  265.9     52.7   44.2      97    145     271    100




                                                  - 42 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic benefits produced by the project are evident in increased agricultural production, farmer income,
farm and non-farm employment through increased productivity of irrigated areas, forestry, livestock,
aquaculture and agro-industry in project areas. Benefits are also derived from flood protection and power
generation from Jiangya dam. The methodology used for quantifying these benefits followed that of the
SAR except in the case of the Grasslands/Livestock and Soil Improvement components in Hubei and
Jiangya Dam in Hunan. Changes related to generation of off-farm labor benefits as a result of WUA
formation were also made for all irrigation area models.

For the Grasslands/Livestock sub component, the grassland development activity ceased in 1997.
Therefore, the benefits were calculated from the sum of income and expenditure of the Provincial breeding
station and liquid oxygen/nitrogen plant, plus the benefits to Hubei in terms of meat, hide and bonemeal
production of the incremental output (108,000 improved animals/year) less incremental costs, compared to
a without project situation. The without project situation assumed that the Provincial breeding station
would have made minimum necessary improvements using self-financing of some Y600,000. As a result it
would have maintained operations at pre-project levels of efficiency (approximately half present levels of
artificial insemination success rate) and thus half the number of improved animals (54,000) produced per
year. The balance (54,000) of animals produced at lower levels of final productivity, would have come
from farmer crossing of cows with local bulls. The analysis assumed a genetic gain over the long term of
15%. Higher gains are being recorded in Hubei at the early stages of the insemination program but will
decline as the proportion of unimproved breeding cows declines.

For the Soil Improvement sub-component, the benefits were calculated in a similar manner to the cash flow
analysis used by the SAR. However, the net benefits at mixing plant and supply station level were
combined with the costs of the agricultural service system. In addition, allowance was made for mixing
plant replacement and supply station upgrading at year 10 given the current poor state of mechanical
components. The benefits at farm level were taken out of the analysis of irrigated areas. It was assumed
that over the total project under irrigation improvement, fertilizers were used at rates assumed for the
Dongfeng farm model in the SAR for the with and without project situation. The total production of the
mixing plants was divided by the average rate of application of NPK fertilizer to give the benefit area each
year. The benefit assumed was that fertilizer contributed 40% of total benefit compared to "without
project". Irrigation improvement also contributed 40% and other factors 20%. The benefits for irrigation
area improvement were reduced proportionately over the area calculated to have applied NPK fertilizer
from project sources.

Additional benefits in irrigated areas were identified due to WUA formation and irrigation modernization as
follows:

(i) Off-farm employment. Labor released from guarding water entitlements and as a result of factors such
as mechanization, has become available for off-farm work for about 120 days per year. The benefits from
the labor released were calculated by assuming that in project areas, 30-40% of households (depending on
the irrigation area and the value of agriculture compared to off farm opportunity) gained 120 days per year
at 20 Yuan per day for unskilled labor (two thirds of total) and 30 yuan per day for skilled labor (one third
of total). In non-project areas, only 20% of households gained such benefits. These assumptions were
discussed and verified with both beneficiaries and project staff.

(ii) Crop diversification. Project areas such as Liuduzhai have reduced paddy production by some 30%
and increased higher value cash cropping proportionately. These changes have been reflected in the
calculations.




                                                     - 43 -

The benefits of Jiangya Dam were recalculated at actual 2002 prices. The additional benefits (power
generation and flood control) arising from greater dam height and storage capacity, compared to appraisal
estimates were not considered and would have added to the economic and financial return of the investment.
The flood control benefit arising from the 1998 flood event was revised to twice that of an average year and
included in financial benefits (the Provincial Flood Protection Fund pays LHPC for flood protection
provided), and power generation benefits were indexed for real economic growth between 1995 and 2002
by including the increase in the price of power.

Details of the economic and financial analysis including crop budgets, farm and enterprise models, etc. are
available in the project files.

The main financial and economic indicators for the components and sub-projects are summarized below:

                               Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project
                                   Financial and Economic Analysis
                                 At Completion                              At Appraisal

                    FRR         FNPV       ERR        ENPV      FRR         FNPV     ERR        ENPV
                    Percent     Y mil      Percent    Y mil     Percent     Y mil    Percent    Y mil
 Hubei                31         1,642       33       1,849       21          685        26     1,257
 Hunan                20         1,063       22       1,412       16          531        18       812
   Total Project      24         2,705       26       3,261       19        1,216        23     2,069

 Zhanghe              47           386       43        347        20           69        25       141
 Dongfeng             31           238       34        265        19           55        26       140
 Yindan               32           291       35        309        24          149        31       307
 Wenxia               31           182       36        218        22           84        29       171
 Sihu                 30           103       39        126        16           78        20       164
 Aquaculture          16            30       21          69       26           66        35       114
 Forestry             25           199       29        303        19           98        26       142
 Soil                 37           171       37        171          n.a.      n.a.        n.a.      n.a.
 Improvement/
 Fertilizer*
 Grasslands/          23            42       23          41       20           61        22        78
 Livestock

 Jiangya              17           511       20        495        16          420        18       604
 Tieshan              23           284       31        453        17           78        18       124
 Liuduzhai            23           268       26        463        15           34        18        84
 * Fertilizer was combined with irrigation in the SAR analysis




                                                   - 44 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Lending
              05/92                    5    E/ML, DHE, SDS, PMS, PS
              10/92                    2    E/ML, A/ECO
              04/93                  10     A/ECO/ML, IE (2), DRE, IDE,
                                            WRE, ENVS, RS, PA, MFA
              5/93                     6    ECO/ML, WRE, AG, PA, ETR,
                                            IS
              09/93                  16     A/ECO/ML, IE (2), DRE, IDE,
                                            WRE, ENVS, RS, PS, MFA,
                                            IECO, DSE, CE, PA, DHE, AQS
              10/93                    7    ECO/ML, AG, DRE, IE, WRPM,
                                            IS, PA
              3/94                   18     A/ECO/ML, DRE, IS, MFA, AN,
                                            ECO, IDE, WRE, AQS (2),
                                            ENVS (2), A, RHFE, CE, MFA,
                                            IECO, IE
              6/94                     3    ECO, A, PS
              7/94                     3    RS, RS/A, AN
              8/94                   16     A/ECO/ML, IE (2), WRE, DE,
                                            PS, ENVS, AQS, E, A, ECO, IS,
                                            MFA, HM, CE, AN



 Supervision
              5/95                     7    A/ECO/ML, A, ENVS, RS,            HS             HS
                                            IE, IS, DE
              10/95                    7    A/ECO/ML, AN, PS, ENVS,           S               S
                                            AQS, IE, DE
              02/96                    3    A/ECO/ML, E, DE                   S               S
              05/96                    7    A/ECO/ML, RS, RE, A, AQS,         U               S
                                            IE, IS
              12/96                    6    A/ECO/ML, DE, ENVS, IS, AN,       U               S
                                            IE
              06/97                   10    A/ECO/ML, DE, AQS, IS, A,         S               S
                                            AN, IE, PS, WRE, DS
              12/97                   10    A/ECO/ML, IE (2), DE, AN,         S               S
                                            ENVS, DS, IS, DS, E/FA
              12/98                    5    A/ECO/ML, DE, AN, IE, ENVS        S               S
              05/99                    5    A/ECO/ML, DE, AN, IE, ENVS        S               S
              04/00                    2    A/ECO/ML, IE                      S               S
              10/00                    3    A/ECO/ML, RS, IE                  S               S
              04/01                    3    A/ECO/ML, SDS, IE                 S               S
              09/01                    3    A/ECO/ML, SDS, IE                 HS             HS
              03/02                    3    A/ECO/ML, RS, IE                  S               S



                                             - 45 -

               09/02                          3   A/ECO/ML, RS, IE                   S    S
               03/03                          5   A, IE, IDE, IS, ECO                S    S


A        - Agriculturalist
AG       - Agronomist
AN       - Anthoropologist
AQS      - Aquaculture Specialist
CE       - Civil Engineer
DE       - Dam Engineer
DHE      - Dam/Hydropower Engineer
DS       - Disbursement Specialist
DSE      - Dam Safety Engineer
DRE      - Drainage Engineer
E        - Engineer
ECO      - Economist
ENVS - Environmental Specialist
ETR      - Engineer Trainee
FA       - Financial Analyst
HM       - Hydro-Meteorologist
IDE      - Irrigation and Dam Engineer
IE       - Irrigination Engineer
IECO - Institutional Economist
IS       - Institutional Specialist
MFA      - Management and Financial Analyst
ML       - Mission Leader
PA       - Project Analyst
PMS      - Project Management Specialist
PS       - Procurement Specialist
RE       - Rural Engineer
RHFE - River Hydrology and Forecasting Engineer
RS       - Resettlement Specialist
SDS      - Social Development Specialist
WRE      - Water Resources Engineer
WRPM - Water Resources Planning and Management

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Lending                                                                     906
  Supervision                                                               1,075
  Total                                                                     1,981




                                                   - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance - Hunan                            Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission
2. Implementation Completion Report - Hubei
3. Implementation Completion Report - Hunan
4. Implementation Completion Report - Tieshan Irrigation District
5. Implementation Completion Report - Liuduzhai Irrigation District
6. Financial and Economic Analysis
   (i) FRR calculation tables by Province and sub-component
   (ii) ERR calculation tables by Province
   (iii) Project ERR calculation table




                                                - 49 -

- 50 -

