Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2710 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 18, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2710 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1995 between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and,
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project will be carried out by Hubei 
Province (as herein defined) and Hunan Province as herein defined (both Hubei Province 
and Hunan Province
hereinafter collectively referred to as the Project Provinces) with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the 
Project Provinces a portion of the proceeds of the Loan and a portion of the proceeds 
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
Part F of the Project will be carried out by Lishui Hydro and Power 
Corporation (hereinafter called LHPC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to LHPC, through Hunan Province, a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan and a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter 
provided;
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements (as hereinafter defined);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" and "Affected Persons" means individually the person 
and collectively the persons whose right title or interest in any property is acquired 
or is intended to be acquired or whose property is otherwise possessed or intended to 
be possessed and who as a result thereof has been or would be displaced or 
dispossessed from his/their habitat or land or precluded from carrying out his/their 
business, occupation or work or dispossessed of any portion of his/their property on 
account of the execution of Part F.1 of the Project.
(b)
"Hubei Special Account" and "Hunan Special Account" mean the accounts 
referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
(c)
"Charter of LHPC" means the Charter of the Lishui Hydro and Power 
Corporation, as approved by MWR in February 1993.
(d)
"Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan" means the environmental 
management and monitoring plan related to the Project approved by and dated September, 
1994 as the same may be supplemented and amended from time to time with the approval 
of the Association.
(e)
"Ha" means hectare.
 
(f)
"Hubei Province" means the Hubei Province, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto.
(g)
"Hunan Province" means the Hunan Province, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto.
(h)
"LHPC" means the Lishui Hydro and Power Corporation, an enterprise 
incorporated, existing and operating under the laws of the Borrower.
(i)
"LHPC Project Agreement" means the agreement to be among the Association, 
the Bank and LHPC, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the LHPC 
Project Agreement.
(j)
"LHPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Hunan Province and LHPC pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Provinces Project 
Agreement, and such term includes all schedules to the LHPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(k)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time. and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to the Loan and 
Page  3
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank dated January 1, 1985, as applied to said agreement, 
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(l)
"MWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources, and any successor 
thereto.
(m)
"Project Provinces" means Hubei Province and Hunan Province.
 
(n)
"Project Agreements" means the Provinces Project Agreement and the LHPC 
Project Agreement collectively, and "Project Agreement" means either of the Provinces 
Project Agreement or the LHPC Project Agreement.
(o)
"Project Leading Group" or "Project Leading Groups" means the project 
leading group or project leading groups referred to in Part E.1(a) of Schedule 2 to 
the Provinces Project Agreement.
(p)
"Provinces Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, 
the Bank and Hubei Province and Hunan Province, of even date herewith, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Provinces Project Agreement.
(q)
"Provincial PMOs" means the provincial project management offices 
referred to in Part E.1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Provinces Project Agreement.
(r)
"Resettlement Plan" means the plan for the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of approximately 12,600 people in connection with the construction of 
the Jiangya Dam under Part F.1 of the Project, as described in the Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan, as said resettlement plan may be supplemented and 
amended from time to time with the approval of the Association.
(s)
"Special Accounts" means the Hubei Special Account and the Hunan Special 
Account, collectively, and "Special Account" means either of the Special Accounts.
(t)
"WSCs" and "WUAs" mean, respectively, the water supply corporations and 
the water user associations to be established by the Project Provinces in accordance 
with Part A of Schedule 2 to the Provinces Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy four million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 74,800,000).
Section 2.02.(a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts, for Parts A, B and C and Parts D, E and F 
respectively, in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment, to be known 
as the Hubei Special Account and the Hunan Special Account respectively. Deposits 
into, and payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  4
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2005 and ending January 15, 2030. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on January 15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, and without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Page  5
Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall (A) cause each of the Project Provinces to 
perform all their respective obligations set forth in the Provinces Project Agreement; 
(B) cause LHPC to perform all its obligations under the LHPC Project Agreement; (C) 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Project Provinces and LHPC to perform such obligations; and (D) not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31 of each year, commencing in 1995, furnish to the 
Association, for its review and comments, proposed work plans and annual budgets for 
the implementation of the Project for the following fiscal year; and thereafter 
implement such plans and budgets taking into account the comments thereon by the 
Association;
(b)
take all such measures as are necessary to enable LHPC to charge, collect 
and adjust the power tariffs pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of the LHPC Project 
Agreement;
(c)
periodically inspect, and cause independent experts to inspect, under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, the dam and related structures 
constructed under Part F.1 of the Project, and the dams and related structures to be 
repaired under Part A.1 of the Project, in accordance with sound engineering practice 
in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such 
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of 
the same, which may endanger their safety. To this end, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association for the Association's review and comments a plan for said arrangements 
no later than one year before the completion of the dam and related structures 
constructed or repaired under Part F.1 and A.1 of the Project;
(d)
take all steps necessary to ensure that LHPC and the Project Provinces 
carry out their respective parts of the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan 
and the Resettlement Plan; and
(e)
not later than December 31, 1997, carry out a midterm review with the 
Association, the Project Provinces and LHPC of the progress of and prospects for 
Project implementation.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to Hubei 
Province and to Hunan Province respectively, in amounts corresponding to amounts 
withdrawn from the Credit Account on account of expenditures under Parts A, B and C 
and Parts D, E and F of the Project, respectively, on the following principal terms 
and conditions:
(i)
repayment within twenty (20) years, including five (5) years' of 
grace;
(ii)
interest to be paid on the amounts withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate of 
four (4%) percent per annum;
 
(iii)
commitment fee to be paid on the unwithdrawn amount from time to 
time at the 
rate of 0.5%; and
 
(iv)
the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the respective Project 
Provinces.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project;
Page  6
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures for which payments are made out of the 
Special Accounts.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02.  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Hubei Province, Hunan Province or LHPC shall have failed to perform any 
of its obligations under its respective Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Hubei Province, Hunan Province or LHPC will be able to perform 
its obligations under its respective Project Agreement.
Page  7
(c)
The Charter of LHPC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of LHPC to 
perform any of its obligations under the LHPC Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of LHPC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the
General Conditions.
(a)
the LHPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of Hunan 
Province and LHPC; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that (i) the Provinces Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Provinces, and is legally binding upon 
the Project Provinces in accordance with its terms; (ii) that the LHPC Project 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by LHPC and is legally binding on LHPC 
in accordance with its terms; and (iii) that the LHPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been duly authorized by Hunan and LHPC and is legally binding upon Hunan and LHPC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04.  The obligations of the Borrower under the Article IV of this 
Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  8
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                          Amount of         Amount of
                         the Credit         the Loan      % of
                          Allocated         Allocated     Expen-
                         (Expressed        (Expressed     ditures
                           in SDR           in Dollar     to be
      Category           Equivalent)       Equivalent)    Financed
Hubei: Parts A, B and C of the Project
(1)   Works               10,700,000         12,500,000   40%
Page  9
(2)   Goods (exclu-       15,750,000         19,000,000   100% of foreign
      ding locally                                        expenditures,
      procured                                            100% of local
      fertilizers                                         expenditures
      and commodi-                                        (ex-factory cost)
      ties under                                          and 75% of local
      Part B of                                           expenditures
      the Project)                                        for other items
                                                          procured locally
(3)   Consultants'        2,150,000          2,500,000    100%
      services,
      training,
      study tours,
      research and
      studies
(4)   Unallocated              -             4,000,000
Hunan: Parts D and E of the Project
(5)   Works               6,800,000          8,500,000     30%
(6)   Goods               4,100,000          5,100,000     100% of foreign
                                                           expenditures,
                                                           100% of local
                                                           expenditures
                                                           (ex-factory cost)
                                                           and 75% of local
                                                           expenditures
                                                           for other items
                                                           procured locally
(7)   Consultants'        1,200,000          1,600,000     100%
      services,
      training,
      study tours,
      research and
      studies
LHPC: Part F of the Project
(8)   Works
      (a) Jiangya Main
          Dam            15,200,000         19,000,000    75%
      (b) Other Works     2,800,000          3,500,000    50%
(9)   Goods              13,200,000         16,500,000    100% of foreign
                                                          expenditures,
                                                          100% of local
                                                          expenditures (ex-
                                                          factory cost) and
                                                          75% of local
                                                          expenditures for
                                                          other items
                                                          procured locally
(10)  Consultants'        2,900,000         3,600,000     100%
      services,
      training,
      study tours,
      research and
      studies
Parts D, E and F of the Project
Page  10
(11)  Unallocated            -              4,200,000
      Total              74,800,000       100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of (a) 
SDR 5,440,000, may be made in respect of
categories (1) through (3) and (b) SDR 8,830,000 may be made in respect of categories 
(5) through (10); in each on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after August 18, 1994.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for goods under contracts 
not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (ii) for works under contracts not exceeding 
$2,000,000 equivalent; (iii) for consultants' services by firms, studies under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iv) for individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (v) for training, in each case, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) raise 
agricultural production and incomes in Hubei Province, Hunan Province and the middle 
Yangtze River Basin; (ii) reduce the risk and impact of floods in said areas; (iii) 
strengthen operation and maintenance capabilities with respect to irrigation and 
draining schemes of Hubei and Hunan Provinces; and (iv) support institutional reform 
in the management of water resources in both provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
I.
Water Resources and Agricultural Development in Hubei Province
 
PART A:
Irrigation and Drainage
 
1.
Rehabilitating irrigation and drainage schemes in the concerned areas of 
Zhanghe, Dongfeng, Yindan and Wenxia through, inter alia:
(a)
lining of canals, raising embankments, construction of retaining walls 
and culverts, and the repair or replacement of other canal structures;
(b)
widening of irrigation and drainage ditches and levelling land;
 
(c)
repairing or replacing of other irrigation and drainage structures, 
including aqueducts, tunnels, sluices, culverts and farm bridges;
(d)
rehabilitation of selected dams and reservoirs;
 
(e)
strengthening of flood discharge systems; and
 
(f)
strengthening of operations and maintenance capabilities through the 
installation of water monitoring and measurement systems.
Page  11
2.
Improving flood control and drainage facilities in the Sihu command area 
through, inter alia:
(a)
upgrading of dikes;
 
(b)
increasing of the discharge and flood handling capacity of the Tiangnan 
River through dredging operations, strengthening, embankments, upgrading sluices, 
installing pump stations and lining sections of the river bank;
(c)
installation of drainage pumps; and
 
(d)
construction of new local drainage networks and improvement of low yield 
water-logged land.
Part B:
Aquaculture, Forestry, Grassland Development and Soil Improvement
 
1.
Improving about 17 small lakes and reservoirs covering approximately 12,000 ha 
and farm ponds covering approximately 900 ha, through, inter alia:
(a)
strengthening and raising of embankments, constructing new dikes, 
installing fish screens, and constructing bridges and farm management and storage 
facilities;
(b)
increasing of stocking of fish, turtle and crab seed and the supply of 
feed and fertilizer input;
(c)
upgrading and construction of production ponds; and
 
(d)
construction of hatcheries.
 
2.
Planting forests in watershed areas along the Yangtze and Han rivers covering 
approximately 16,720 ha and  strengthening forestry training capabilities.
3.
Improving approximately 19,525 ha of grasslands for cattle fattening and 
upgrading livestock feeding capabilities through constructing silage and storage 
facilities, wells and access tracks.
4.
Developing fertilizer supply capacity through: (a) the construction of six 
fertilizer blending plants, fertilizer supply stations and fertilizer storage 
facilities; and (b) the
upgrading of institutional facilities and capabilities for research and training.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening in Water Resources Management
 
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Hubei Province to manage water 
resources, including design, research and training capabilities at the provincial and 
subprovincial level.
2.
Establishing, on a pilot basis, self-financing irrigation and drainage districts 
through the creation of WSCs for the operation and maintenance of reservoirs and main 
and branch canals, and WUAs for the operation and maintenance of lower level 
irrigation schemes and as purchasers of water from WSCs. 
II.
Water Resources in Hunan Province
 
Part D:
Irrigation and Drainage
 
1.
Constructing irrigation systems in Tieshan and Liuduzhai command areas covering 
approximately 50,000 ha, including:
(a)
constructing canals and related structures, including tunnels, aqueducts, 
culverts, gates, laterals and sub-laterals;
(b)
constructing a storage reservoir and an approximately 6 km conveyor canal 
for Yueyang City;
Page  12
(c)
installing a pump station and minor power station in the Linduzhai 
irrigation command area; and
(d)
strengthening operations and maintenance capabilities through the 
installation of water monitoring and  measurement systems.
2.
Strengthening research, design and management capabilities with respect to the 
Dongting Lake drainage area.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening Water Resources Management
 
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Hunan Province to manage water 
resources, including upgrading project planning and preparation capabilities and 
training capabilities.
2.
Establishing, on a pilot basis, self-financing irrigation and drainage districts 
through the creation of WSCs for the operation and maintenance of reservoirs and main 
and branch canals, and WUAs for the operation and maintenance of lower level 
irrigation schemes and as purchasers of water from WSCs.
Part F:
Flood Control, Power Generation and Institutional Strengthening in the 
Lishui River 
Basin
 
1.
Constructing the Jiangya Multipurpose Dam on the Loushui River in the Lishui 
River Basin using roller compacted concrete technology.
2.
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of LHPC to manage the development 
of the Lishui River Basin, including its management information and water resource 
information systems.
3.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons.
 
*             *             *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means for the Hubei Special Account, 
Categories (1), (2) and (3); and for the Hunan Special Account, Categories (5), (6), 
(7), (8), (9) and (10); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in  respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to (i) for 
the Hubei Special Account, $6,000,000; and (ii) for the Hunan Special Account, 
$9,000,000; all to be
withdrawn from the Credit  Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Accounts  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
with respect to (i) the Hubei Special Account and (ii) the Hunan Special Account, 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 and $6,000,000 respectively, 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 30,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  13
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to  it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of  the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an 
amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount  of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of such request or  requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit in said Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into said Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into 
said Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the  Credit Account or 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall  have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall  reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and  other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for  eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions  of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of  Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement or from the Loan  Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 
of the  Loan Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for said Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 6.02 of the 
respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for said Special Account, minus the amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
Page  14
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
said Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any timethat any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2  of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from  the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the  Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no
further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
