Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2710 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3874 CHA
LHPC Project Agreement
(Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LISHUI HYDRO AND POWER CORPORATION
Dated July 18, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2710 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3874 CHA
LHPC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1995, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association), the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
LISHUI
HYDRO AND POWER CORPORATION (LHPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various  currencies equivalent 
to seventy four million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
74,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that LHPC agrees to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement and that the Project Provinces 
agree to undertake such obligations towards the Association as are set forth in the 
Provinces Project Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that LHPC agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement and that 
the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank as are set 
Page  2
forth in the Provinces Project Agreement.
WHEREAS LHPC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and, wherever used in the Agreement, the Association, the Credit or the 
Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference to the Bank, the Loan or the Loan 
Account, respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) LHPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part F of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
Part F of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and LHPC shall otherwise agree, LHPC shall carry out 
Part F of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part F of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) LHPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part F of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
LHPC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
LHPC, a plan for the future 
operation of Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with LHPC on 
said plan; and
 
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association's 
comments thereon.
 
Section 2.04. LHPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the LHPC 
Page  3
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LHPC shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the LHPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) LHPC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement, the LHPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
LHPC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by LHPC of its obligations under this Agreement and the 
LHPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LHPC
Section 3.01. LHPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. LHPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, public utility and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. LHPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) LHPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
LHPC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02 (a) Before June 30, 1998, LHPC shall enter into a power sales 
agreement acceptable to the Association, with the relevant electric power company in 
Hunan Province, which shall provide a tariff structure adequate to ensure that net 
revenues of LHPC attributable to the generation and sale of power for each fiscal year 
after that ending in 2000 shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt 
service requirements of LHPC for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of LHPC 
attributable to the generation and sale of power in a manner satisfactory to the 
Page  4
Association.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of LHPC maturing by its 
terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
 
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of LHPC's tariffs in effect at the time 
of the incurrence 
of debt even though they were not in effect 
during the twelve-month 
period to which such revenues 
relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
either non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
LHPC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
Page  5
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify LHPC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For LHPC:
Lishui Hydro and Power Corporation
No.62 Shaoshan Road,
Changsha, Hunan 410007
People's Republic of China
Telex:
982055 HWPED CN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of LHPC may be 
taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as the 
General Manager shall designate in writing and LHPC shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
Page  6
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific Region
LISHUI HYDRO AND POWER CORPORATION
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the 
following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation, obtain 
necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may 
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the request for extension 
shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the 
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the 
bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect to each 
contract made subject to the Association's prior review in accordance with the 
provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be 
required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of 
extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid 
validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, 
LHPC shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, LHPC shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Parts 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $15,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association, except that goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers or contractors, as the case may be in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  7
2.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $22,000,000,  may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association; provided however, that works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of not more than $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $3,500,000, may be carried out in accordance with force account 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract (i) for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of said Special Account 
in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist LHPC in carrying out Part F of the Project, LHPC shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  
For complex, time-based assignments, LHPC shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, LHPC
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association preview shall 
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts (b) single-source selection 
of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
LHPC shall:
 
(a)
maintain an international dam safety panel of independent experts, with 
composition and functions acceptable to the Association, to conduct periodic reviews 
of the Jiangya dam and its related structures no less frequently than the Association 
requires during final engineering and construction and (i) to examine whether any 
grounds have become apparent for making changes in the design of the dam or the 
technical specifications therefor on the basis of safety, considerations in accordance 
with sound engineering practice; and (ii) to determine whether there are any 
deficiencies in the condition of said dam or structures, or in the quality and 
adequacy of
maintenance or methods of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety;
(b)
promptly report the findings of each such panel review to the Borrower 
and the Association; and
(c)
ensure that said dam is thereafter maintained, operated and periodically 
inspected in accordance with sound engineering and dam safety practices, under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.  To this end, LHPC shall provide to the 
Association, not later than one year prior to expected completion of the construction 
of said dam, for its review and comments a plan for said arrangements.
2.
LHPC shall:
 
(a)
maintain a panel of independent experts with composition and functions 
acceptable to the Association to conduct periodic reviews and make, no less frequently 
than the Association requires, recommendations in respect of the Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan and the Resettlement Plan;
(b)
maintain its environmental and resettlement unit with competent staff in 
adequate numbers and with responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Association 
to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Environmental Management 
and Monitoring Plan and the Resettlement Plan; and
(c)
ensure:
 
(i)
that all activities under Part F of the Project comply with 
environmental and
resettlement standards and guidelines satisfactory to the 
Association;
(ii)
that all necessary measures are taken to minimize and to mitigate 
any adverse
environmental and resettlement impacts caused by the construction 
and other 
activities under Part F.1 of the Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the 
Association; and
 
(iii)
that the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan and the 
Resettlement 
Plan are implemented in a timely manner.
 
3.
Without limiting the generality of its obligation under Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, LHPC shall, by September 30, 1995, employ consultants to assist in 
the carrying out of Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project.
4.
By September 30, 1995, LHPC shall establish a mechanism acceptable to the 
Association for determining the appropriate flood protection fees payable to it out of 
the Hunan Provincial Flood Protection Fund.
5.
LHPC shall maintain its project management office with competent staff in 
adequate numbers with responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Association.
6.
LHPC shall, by December 31 of each year commencing in 1995, prepare and furnish 
Page  9
to the Association for review, the proposed financing plan and implementation program 
for Project
activities in the next calendar year; and thereafter implement the said plan and 
program in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
7.
LHPC shall participate in the midterm review of the progress of and prospects 
for Project implementation, carried out with Borrower, the Project Provinces and the 
Association in accordance with Section 3.02(e) of the Development Credit Agreement.
8.
LHPC shall ensure that all training, including study tours and work study and 
research under parts F of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with training 
and research programs acceptable to the Association.  To that end, LHPC shall cause 
its project management offices by June 30, in each year commencing in 1995, to prepare 
and furnish to the Association for its approval plans for the research, training and 
study tours to be carried out in the next year.
