Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  16210-SN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
(Cr. 2681-SN)
December30, 1996
Private Sector Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                           MEASURES
(November30, 1996)
1 m = 1.09 yd
US$1 = CFAF 516.55                       1 m2 = 10.76 sq ft
CFAF 1 = US$0.0019                       1 km2 = 0.38 sq mi
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP                 Autorisation Prealable
ASAC               Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2582-SN)
BF                 Belgian Franc
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF               Communaut Financiere Africaine Franc
COSEC              Conseil Senegalais des Chargeurs
CRG                Competitiveness Review Group
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
FIAS               Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FTZ                Free Trade Zone
GATT               General Agreement on Tarrifs and Trade
GOS                Government of Senegal
MEFP               Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
PSCBP              Private Sector Capacity Building Project (Cr. 2759-SN)
PSAC               Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit (Cr. 2681-SN)
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
RRP                Report and Recommendation of the President
SAL                Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR                Special Drawing Right
SFZ                Single Factory Zone
SMEs               Small and Medium size Enterprises
VAT                Value-Added Tax
Vice President                  J.L. Sarbib
Director              :         A. Ayub
Division Chief/Manager          T. Allen
Staff Member                    R. Fukui



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENTAND COMPETITIVENESSCREDIT
(Cr. 2681-SN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ....................   .......
EVALUATIONSUMMARY .................... . _                                . i
PARTI. PROJECTIMPLEMENTA TIONASSESSMENT . ............................    ................_
A BACKGROUND .............. .                      ...                         .1
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATIONOF OBJECTIVES .............               ........................... .  .2
C. ACHIEVEMENTOF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............             ........................... .  . 3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...................................... ...5
E. PROJECT SUSTAfNABILITY ...               ............................         . .5
F. BANK PERFORMANCE..                 ............................         .     6
G. BORROWERPERFORMANCE ............................ .  _.. .                 . 6
H. ASSESSMENTOF OUTCOME ......................-...... 7
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS..                ............................         .      7
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED..                ............................   .          s
PARTII - STA TISTICAL TABLES .....              .... ................. . _. 9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................-......                       9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...........................       ...10
Table 3: Project Timetable ...........................   ..  .....               11
Table 4: StudiesIncludedln Project . ........                                   . 11
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants .........                                    . 12
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......... 14
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions ...........................       .....14
PART III. APP ENDICE& ........................              .......5
A. BORROWERCONTRIBUTIONTO THE ICR ............................... .......     . 15
B. POLICY MATRIX ..................     ..         ...              ..........23
C. MAP IBRD No. 27218 ........ ..... 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the pcrformance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othen4isc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
(Cr. 2681-SN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Sector Adjustment and
Competitiveness Credit (2681-SN) in Senegal, for which a credit in the amount of SDR 27.6 million (US$
40 million equivalent) was approved on February 16, 1995 and made effective on February 28, 1995. The
credit was closed on October 30, 1996. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed
by May 12, 1995. The second tranche was released on December 28,1995 and fully disbursed by January
18, 1996. A Belgian grant of BF100 million was disbursed on May 22, 1996, in parallel with the
disbursement of the second tranche.
The ICR was prepared by Ryu Fukui, Private Sector Finance, Africa Region, with inputs from
Cherif Azi, Project Task Manager. It was originally reviewed by Industry and Energy Division, Western
Africa Department and, after the reorganization of the Bank, the review was completed by Private Sector
Finance, Africa Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank supervision mission of July 1995. The ICR is
based on material in the project file, data provided by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, field
visits, and discussions with the Ministry's officials. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by commenting on the draft ICR, and preparing its own evaluation of the project preparation and execution,
which is included as Appendix A in Part III of the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
(Cr. 2681-SN)
Borrower:                                 Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries:                           The Government of Senegal and the private sector
Amount:                                  IDA Credit: SDR 27.6 million (US$ 40 million equivalent)
Date effective:                          February 28, 1995
Date closed:                             October30, 1996
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
1.    By the early 1990s, Senegal's economy which had been deteriorating for a number of years was at a
low-level equilibrium, characterized by persistent recession and underutilized capacity. Macroeconomic
imbalances, declining investment and exports, and shortfalls in public revenue collection from an overvalued
real exchange rate made the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA Franc (CFAF) inevitable. Right after the
devaluation, the Government of Senegal (GOS) realized that the devaluation alone was not enough and that it
had to adopt additional policy and structural reforms to support the development of the private sector. The
GOS set out the macroeconomic objectives of a strategy for the 1994-97 period in a Statement of Economic
and Social Policies that was submitted to IDA in March 1994. As a part of this medium-term strategy, the
GOS adopted a program for private sector development, after having made efforts to build a consensus with the
private sector, mainly through seminars and discussions carried out with the Competitiveness Review Group
(CRG). The recommendations of the five CRG commissions constituted the basis of the policy reform
program that was supported by the Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit (PSAC). The
PSAC, along with the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC), formed the main elements of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) prepared by the World Bank and the GOS. The CAS and the PSAC were
approved by the IDA Board in February 1995 and the ASAC in June 1995. In parallel with these two credits,
aimed at helping the private sector to take advantage of the new policy environment rapidly, the Private Sector
Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) was prepared and approved by the IDA Board in June 1995.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The overall objective of the PSAC was to support policy measures to stimulate the supply response of
the private sector to the January 1994 CFA Franc (CFAF) devaluation. To achieve this goal, the PSAC
included a reform program, which aimed to: (a) complete the liberalization of domestic and external trade; (b)
improve the export and investment incentive regimes; (c) eliminate rigidities in the labor market; and (d)
reduce maritime transportation costs.
3.    The project objectives were consistent both with the Bank's lending policy and with the GOS's
strategy designed in collaboration with the private sector. Timeliness of disbursement was another major
objective of this credit because there was consensus between the GOS and the Bank on the need for prompt
adjustment to quickly take advantage of the CFAF devaluation. The four objectives stated in paragraph 2
above were relevant to the overall objective of the project and most reform measures were stated clearly and



ii
realistically enough to facilitate their implementation. No significant changes were made in the reform
program during implementation.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.     The outcome of the PSAC is judged satisfactory and the major objectives of the reform program were
achieved. All the conditions of the PSAC tranche release were implemented. Of the six measures that were
not conditions of disbursement, one measure was partially implemented, while another was implemented with
modification. Following are the results that were achieved: (a) Completion of the liberalization of domestic
and external trade: All the measures envisaged were implemented; (b) Promotion of exports: All the
measures were implemented except for the measure related to the revision of the temporary import regime,
which was partially implemented; (c) Promotion of investments: All the measures were implemented; (d)
Reduction of labor costs: The measures required under the program were implemented; (e) Reduction of
maritime transportation costs: The measures that were conditions of tranche release were implemented and
they brought about lower freight costs after the liberalization. However, the measure aimed at improving
competitivenessof the port of Dakar was not effected.
5.     The project design was appropriate given the time constraint: The GOS and the Bank identified major
impediments to private sector development and a realistic package of rapidly implementable reforms, rather
than a comprehensive list of reform measures that might need substantial preparation time. The project did not
specify action plans at the start for the reform of the free trade regime, the temporary import regime and the
fiscal incentive system, but only set out a sequence of actions, including further studies by consultants
(however, during implementation action plans were designed: This approach was pragmatic because the
project would have been delayed had it included other reform measures and/or awaited the outcome of
consultants' studies. However, in any adjustment operation, the optimal balance between timeliness and
comprehensivenessof the reform program remains an issue that requires careful consideration.
6.     The criteria for judging the achievement of PSAC's final objective, i.e., whether it simulated the
private sector supply response to the CFAF devaluation, was not quantified. Although it is difficult to
distinguish between the impact of the Government's adjustment measures and that of external factors, recent
trends in exports and imports suggest a positive response to the devaluation, while the effect on investments
remains to be seen.
7.    Most of the PSAC reforms to promote competition in domestic and external trade and to promote
exports are likely to be sustainable. However, the impacts of the revised free trade regime and the temporary
import system are yet to be determined. The sustainability of investment promotion cannot to be assessed at
present because implementation is still ongoing. Measures for introducing flexibility in the labor code and for
reducing sea transportation costs are likely to be sustainable. The sustainability of measures for the
liberalization of labor conditions in the port of Dakar remains uncertain, as does the success in reducing costs
of handling goods in the port and at the airport.
8.    The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory overall. Special efforts were made to involve the
private sector in designing the project. This consultative approach was an innovative one compared to the
approach in previous adjustment operations. During the negotiation process, the Bank's technical support to
the GOS was effective in backing up the Govemment officials who faced resistance from vested interests and,
as a result, the Bank's support reinforced the Borrower's ownership of PSAC. Particular attention was paid to
the Government's commitment during project appraisal. The risk of incomplete implementation of reform
measures by the GOS was minimized by heavily front-loading conditions. PSCBP contributed to the successful
outcomes of PSAC by reinforcing consultationswith the private sector through the activities of CRG.



iii
9.     The Borrower's performance was satisfactory overall. Although the Government's attitude toward the
reform measures was cautious at the early stages, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning (MEFP) was
committed to the formulation of the reform program; it pursued discussions with the private sector and with the
benefit of technical support by the Bank. In particular, the MEFP took a decisive attitude in negotiating the
elimination of special agreements granted to some enterprises. In the implementation stage, the Government
complied with all the legal covenants and conditions for tranche release by effectively managing the project
under the direction of the MEFP. However, the Government has yet to show its sustained commitment and
ability to complete, in a timely fashion, the implementation of the action plan of the temporary import regime,
the implementation of the new investment incentive system and the adoption of an action plan to improve
competitiveness of the port of Dakar. The GOS needs to improve its economic data gathering for project
monitoring and evaluation, in order to assess accurately the economic impact of the reform program.
Therefore, the GOS needs to: (a) collect and analyze relevant data, including statistics of exports and imports
of major products; and (b) pursue the consultative process with the private sector to inforn all stakeholders
periodically about results and effectiveness of the reform measures.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
10.   To follow up on the implementation and assess the effect of the measures that were adopted, the Bank
needs to monitor: (a) the impact of the new law of the free trade regime; (b) the amendment of the Customs
Code necessary to implement the remaining eight measures referring to the temporary import regime; (c) the
implementation of an action plan for a new fiscal incentive regime for investments, in the context of the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1995-98; (d) the validity of the new rate of Conseil senegalais des chargeurs' levy
on imported goods; and (e) the implementation of an action plan to improve the competitiveness of the port of
Dakar.
11.   Following up on the PSAC, sector-specific issues are expected to be addressed in future operations.
Several actions being considered by the GOS and the Bank should be implemented in a timely manner in the
following sectors: (a) Energy sector the regulatory framework and the issue of administered prices; (b)
Water sector pricing of water; (c) Transportation Sector pricing of sea and air transport based on the
analysis and recommendations of the ongoing studies under the PSAC; and (d) Telecommunications Sector:
supporting measures required to create a competitive environment.
12.   Three major lessons can be drawn from implementation of the PSAC:  (a) Participation of
stakeholdersin the project In preparingadjustmentoperations,the Bank should emphasizethe identification
of needed reforms by national stakeholders, and not propose its own program. In the case of the PSAC, the
participation of various stakeholders in discussions and their proposals of reform measures ensured a broad
support for the project and also reinforced the Government's commitmentto proceed; (b) Commitmentof the
Borrower The Borrower needs to give clear signals of its commitment to carry out the proposed reforms
early on in the project preparation. In the case of the PSAC, the Bank was able to assess thoroughly the
Borrower's commitment by asking the GOS to implement concrete measures before seeking Board approval.
In addition, the changes in the political economic environmentbrought about by the CFAF devaluationmade it
easier for the GOS to take decisions that would otherwise have been difficult to implement; and (c)
Consultation with the private sector for deepening the reforms: The PSAC helped to lift certain, but not all
barriers to private sector development. To further deepen the reforms initiated by the PSAC, the GOS should
ensure a continuing dialogue with all the stakeholders to identify remaining constraints, and design and
implement appropriate reform measures. Economic players, for example, often urge simplification of
administrative procedures, such as those of the customs service, which they believe lack transparency and
discourage small and medium size enterprises from importing products and creating new enterprises.






I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
(CR. 2681-SN)
PARTI. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
I.    Adjustment efforts in 1980s. Senegal's adjustment efforts in the 1980's were supported by International
Development Association (IDA)'s four structural adjustment credits and two sector adjustment credits. Overall,
the country's performance in implementing and sustaining reforms was mixed. Although some progress was
achieved in areas such as liberalization of the economy, improvement of public resource management, and
restructuring of the banking sector, the reforms needed to deregulate labor markets were not effectively
implemented and monopolies granted to several enterprises were not eliminated. In some areas, reforms
implemented were later reversed, such as the reduction of tariff barriers and civil service reform.
2.    Adjustment efforts in 1990s. By the early 1990s, Senegal's economy which had been deteriorating for a
number of years was at a low-level equilibrium, characterized by persistent recession and underutilized capacity.
In 1991-92, relations between the Government of Senegal (GOS) and the World Bank became strained after
Senegal was unable to meet all the conditions of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)'s Enhanced Structural
Adjustmnent Facility (ESAF) and the IDA's Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2090-SN). This credit was closed
without disbursement of third tranche. Although a series of internal adjustments, including cuts in public sector
wages, was adopted in 1993 by the GOS to halt the deterioration, this was not sufficientto ensure pompetitiveness
of the economy and its growth prospects. Macroeconomic imbalances and declining investments and exports
from an overvalued real exchange rate made the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA Franc (CFAF) inevitable.
Right after the devaluation, the GOS realized that devaluation alone was not enough and that additional policy and
structural reforms were needed to support private sector development, the key elements of which were the
provision of a stable macroeconomicenvironmentand a policy and institutional framework favorable to sustained
economic growth. The GOS set out the macro-economic objectives of a strategy for the 1994-97 period in a
Statement of Economic and Social Policies that was submitted to IDA in March 1994. The policies were
elaborated in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP), approved by IDA and the IMF in August 1994. The main thrust
of the Government's strategy was to implement long-delayed reforms in external trade, labor markets, and in the
agricultural sector, while also implementing measures to improve public sector management, such as adoption of
a public investment program, reduction of wages and a program of divestiture of public enterprises. These
measures were supported by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement and an IDA Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 2582-
SN), both approved in March 1994. The Stand-by Arrangement was converted into an ESAF operation in August
1994.
3.    Private sector development strategy. As a part of its medium-term strategy, the GOS adopted a
program for the development of the private sector. A series of discussions was carried out in the Competitiveness
Review Group (CRG), established in February 1994, with representatives of the private sector, the labor unions,
and the Government. The CRG organized workshops under the five commissions to review constraints to private
sector development in: (a) domestic competition and monopolies; (b) export promotion; (c) investment
promotion; (d) reduction of transport costs; and (e) labor regulations and cost.  The commissions'
recommendations formed the basis for the reform program supported by the Private Sector Adjustment and



2
CompetitivenessCredit (PSAC, Cr.2681-SN). This program was presented to IDA in the Letter of Private Sector
Development Policy in January 1995. The PSAC, along with the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC,
Cr. 2582-SN), constituted the main elements of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) prepared by the Bank and
the GOS. The CAS and the PSAC were approved by the IDA board in February 1995 and the ASAC in June
1995. In parallel with these two credits, the Private Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP, Cr. 2759-SN) was
prepared and approved in June 1995.
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATIONOF OBJECTIVES
4.    Project objectives, The overall objective of the PSAC was to support policy measures to stimulate the
supply response of the private sector to the January 1994 devaluation. To achieve this goal, the PSAC included a
reform program, which aimed to: (a) complete the liberalization of domestic and external trade; (b) improve the
export and investment incentive regime; (c) eliminate rigidities in the labor market; and (d) reduce maritime
transportation costs.
5.    Description of reform program. The reform program comprised five components:
(a) Promotion of competition in domestic and external trade: As stated in the PFP, the GOS was
committed to liberalizing domestic and external trade and creating an environment conducive to increased
competition. To this end, it was expected to eliminate: (i) price controls; (ii) non-tariff barriers on
imports; and (iii) special agreements granting tax advantages to certain enterprises, protection from
imports, and, in some cases, monopolies.
(b) Promotion of exports: Although a Free Trade Zone (FTZ) and Single Factory Zone (SFZ) schemes were
established respectively in 1974 and 1991, these instruments proved ineffective in promoting exports.
The GOS, therefor, committed itself to eliminating the remaining constraints to exports and revising the
FTZ and SFZ schemes. The reform program included: (i) abolition of prior authorization (Autorisations
Prnalables) to export; (ii) adoption of a revised Free Trade regime; (iii) rationalizationof existing regimes
for temporary imports of inputs for exports (regimes douaniers suspensifs); and (iv) simplification of
export proceduresto reduce administrativedelays and costs.
(c) Promotion of investments: Recognizing the need to rationalize and consolidate all the investment
incentives schemes into a simpler, unified, and transparent framework, the GOS decided to implement
measures to streamline procedures for establishing new enterprises and to introduce new legislation for
investment incentives. Four measures were envisaged under the PSAC: (i) limitation of the list of
professions whose exercise requires prior authorization, so that the entry to all other professions would be
free; (ii) adoption of a law reducing taxes on the establishment of new enterprises; (iii) rationalization of
fiscal incentives on investments through new legislation; and (iv) a new law authorizing the GOS to sell
public land to enterprises.
(d) Reduction of labor cost: To improve the competitivenessof Senegalese enterprises, the GOS committed
itself to rationalize utility tariff in the medium-term, while reducing, in the short-term, the costs of labor
and sea transportation. Despite the CFAF devaluation, labor costs were estimated to be higher than in
other developing countries of comparable income levels. The PSAC, therefore, supported; (i) adoption of
legislation authorizing enterprises to adjust freely the size of their working force; and (ii) termination of
the monopoly of the Bureau de la main d'oeuvre portuaire to reduce high handling costs at the port of
Dakar.



3
(e) Reduction of maritime transportation costs: To reduce sea transportation costs, the reform program
supported: (i) abolition of the monopoly of Compagnie senegalaise de navigation maritime, (ii)
restriction of maritime traffic to and from Senegal allocated to national sea carriers to traffic carried out
through conference lines; (iii) modification of the management structure of the Conseil senegalais des
chargeurs (COSEC) to include a majority of private exporters and importers on its board of directors; (iv)
determination of the COSEC levy on imported goods based on a financial audit covering the last three
fiscal years; (v) introduction of a system of sealed containers to facilitate transshipment of containers
within the port of Dakar and between the port and the FTZ; and (vii) a study of user costs at the port and
at the airport of Dakar and measures to improve the performance of Port Autonome de Dakar.
6.    Evaluation of objectives. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS, which noted as a critical
development issue the facilitation of a private sector supply response by : (a) reducing factor costs; (b)
streamlining procedures and incentives; and (c) liberalizing internal and external trade. These objectives served
as the basis for the project design and its components.
7.    The PSAC objectives were important for creating a social and business climate favorable to sustained
economic development. They were also expected to help improving living standards by abolishing monopolies
and trade restrictions that were costly to Senegalese consumers.
8.    The four objectives of the reform program were consistentwith PSAC's overall objective to maximize the
positive effect of the CFAF devaluation, and were translated into specific reform measures. Most reform
measures were stated clearly and realistically enough to facilitate their implementation. No significant change
was made in the reform measures during implementation.
9.    Timeliness of disbursement was another major objective of this credit. There was a consensus between
the GOS and the Bank, on the necessity of a timely adjustment operation. This element characterized the project
design, both in the contents and sequence of the reform measures included. The initial objective was to obtain
Board approval by mid- 1994.
10.    The Report and Recommendation of the President (RRP) identified the risk of incomplete implementation
and/or reversal of the reform program, since some reform measures had long been on Senegal's agenda.
However, the risk was judged to be much smaller than in previous adjustment operations, because the political
economic environment in Senegal changed as the devaluation had already made many protective measures
unnecessary, including the special protective agreements, and the GOS commitment to reform was stronger than
before, as shown by the important reforms implemented in 1993-94. This assessment of the risk was mostly
correct and the risk was minimized by heavily front-loadingof the credit conditionalities.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   Judging by the overall results, the major objectives of the PSAC were reached. All measures that were
conditions of tranche release, except the action plan for revising temporary import regimes, were implemented.
Of the six measures that were not conditions of disbursement, one measure was implemented incompletely and
another with modifications.
12.   An assessment of the results achieved by component follows, while the detailed implementation status of
the reform measures is given in Appendix B (Policy Matrix).



4
(a) Promotion of competition in domestic and external trade. All measures envisaged by the PSAC were
implemented before Board presentation,and the objective of this componentwas substantiallyachieved.
(b) Promotion of exports. All measures envisaged under the program were implemented, except the action
plan for revising the temporary import regime which was partially implemented.
(c) Promotion of investments.    All measures envisaged in the program were implemented.
(d) Reduction of labor costs.  The measures required under the program were implemented.
(e) Reduction of maritime transportation costs.  The measures that were conditions of tranche release
were implemented. Suppliers and users indicated that there was a reduction in freight costs (With the
liberalization of sea transportation, according to a leading sea carrier, average fixed rates decreased by
approximately 10% for imports and 4% for exports). However, the measure to improve competitiveness
of the port of Dakar has not yet been fully implemented.
13.   The PSAC also included the achievementof a satisfactory economic framework as a condition of second
tranche release. Overall, the macroeconomic objectives for 1995 were attained: (a) real GDP growth was
estimated at 4.8%, which is consistent with the objective for the year (4.7%) and 2.8% above the growth rate in
1994; (b) inflationwas estimated at 7.8%, down from 33.2% in 1994, which indicates that the low rate of inflation
of the past is likely to be restored when the impact of the devaluation is fully absorbed; and (c) the external current
account deficit, excluding official transfers, was estimated at 8%, down from 9.3% in 1994, while the fiscal deficit
was estimated at 3.3%, which represents an improvementof 2.4%, compared to the previous year.
14.    The PSAC design was appropriate given the tight time constraint to realize a timely adjustment operation
soon after the devaluation. The GOS and the Bank identified major impediments to private sector development
and a realistic package of rapidly implementablereforms, rather than a comprehensive list of reform measures that
might need substantial preparation time. In retrospect, the program could have included measures to tackle other
fields, such as transportation and telecommunications. The time constraint also affected the sequencing of some
important measures: The project did not specify action plans at the start for the reform of the free trade regime, the
temporary import regime and the fiscal incentive system, but only set out a sequence of actions, including further
studies by consultants. The action plan to the temporary import regime was partially implemented while only an
action plan had been prepared for the reform of the investment incentive system by the time of second tranche
release. However, if the project had been more comprehensive by including other reform measures and/or if it had
defined the detail of the above three measures by waiting to the outcome of consultant studies, it would have been
delayed for several months more. It was therefore reasonable that this approach was not followed. However, in
any adjustment operation, the optimal balance between timeliness and comprehensiveness of reform program
remains an issue which requires careful consideration.
15.    The criteria for judging the achievement of the PSAC's final objectives, i.e. whether the project
stimulated a supply response in the private sector to the CFAF devaluation, was not quantified in the RRP.
Although it is difficult to distinguish between the impact of the Government's adjustment measures from the
impact of external factors, recent trends in exports and imports suggest a positive response to the devaluation,
while the effect on investments remains to be seen. Exports showed a steady increase after the CFAF devaluation
(the increase in export volume was estimated at 5.7% in 1995); imports of capital goods and intermediate goods
increased both in volume and value terms (the increase in import volume of capital goods and intermediate goods
was estimated at 5.0% and 8.0%, respectively, in 1995), indicating that production was stimulated after the



5
devaluation, and the effect on investment has yet to be seen; investments registered with Guichet Unique were
stagnant in 1995 (0.1% decrease in value terms).
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   The major factors that affected achievement of the PSAC objectives were:
(a) Among the factors not subject to Government control, the approach adopted by the Bank contributed to
reinforcing the participation of the private sector and borrower ownership of the PSAC reform program
(see paragraph 21-22). On the other hand, the delay in completing the studies by the FIAS consultants on
the free trade regime, the investment incentive system and the temporary imports regime, over which the
government had no control, postponed second tranche release. Conditions of tranche release should,
therefore, only include the implementation of measures over which the Government has full control.
(b) Among the factors subject to government control, the commitment which the government showed in
preparation and in implementation of reform measures was essential to the successful outcomes of the
project (see paragraph 26-28).
(c) The participation of stakeholders, i.e. representatives of various economic players in the private sector,
was essential for identifying reform measures and for reinforcing the Borrowers' ownership.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   Promotion of competition in domestic and external trade. The reforms implemented to achieve this
objective are likely to be sustainable. Liberalization of prices and abolition of prior authorization on imports, of
the reference system, and of special agreements for enterprises eliminated vested interests of some previously
protected economic players. After the devaluation, it would be hardly justifiable for the Government to reverse
these measures, since a large consensus had been built and the reform program is supported by a large
constituency. In addition, the CRG which continues to identify impediments to private sector development under
the PSCBP, is likely to be an effective watch dog.
18.   Promotion of exports. The measures to promote exports through the abolition of prior authorization of
exports and simplification of export procedures are likely to be sustainable. The impact of the revised free trade
regime and of the temporary import system is still to be determined. As for the free trade regime, it is difficult to
predict how much: (a) exports by enterprises that are not in the FTZ will be encouraged by the reduction of their
income tax (from 30% to 15%); and (b) establishment or expansion of enterprises in the FTZ will be discouraged
by an increase in their income tax (from 0% to 15%).
19.   Promotion of investments. The measures to deregulate authorization of professions, reduce taxes for the
creation of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), and deregulate sale of public land to private enterprise are
likely to be sustainable. The incentive system has not been implemented yet and it is not possible, therefore, to
assess its sustainability. Its implementation will require a reform of the tax code, which might prove difficult to
implement because of its negative impact on the Government tax revenues (i.e., a reduction of import tariffs on
capital goods and of corporate tax on profits). Implementation of this measure should be carefully monitored in
the PFP process for 1995-98.
20.   Enterprise competitiveness  Measures to introduce flexibility in the labor code and reduce sea
transportation costs and levies of COSEC on imports and exports are likely to be sustainable. However, the



6
sustainability of measures for the liberalization of labor conditions of longshoremen in the port of Dakar still
remains to be determined. The sustainability of reduction of handling costs of goods in the port and the airport of
Dakar is uncertain.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
21.   The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation stages was satisfactory. The workshops of
the CRG commissions contributed substantially to identifying impediments to private sector development and in
designing the project. This consultative approach developed at the Bank's initiative was innovative, compared to
the approach taken in previous adjustment operations.
22.   During negotiations with the GOS, the Bank expressed its opinion frankly on the necessary reforms and
tried to support Government officials who faced strong resistance to reform mainly from large enterprises
protected by special agreements. The Bank team made continuous efforts to support the Government's rationale
for reform and pointed up the inefficiency of protectionist measures. The skill mix of the Bank's team was
effective and the staff was sufficiently involved in preparation process, which took about a year, to eventually
engenderand reinforce the Borrower's ownership of the project.
23.   The Bank's performance in project appraisal was highly satisfactory. Based on the experience of past
failures which lacked Borrower ownership, particular attention was paid to assessing Government commitment.
To minimize the risk of failure, a quick-disbursing operation was designed with conditions that were heavily
front-loaded. Of the total of 18 conditions, 13 were conditions of the first tranche release that were implemented
before Board presentation.
24.   The PSCBP, prepared in parallel to the PSAC, contributed substantiallyto supportingthe project from the
preparation stage throughout implementation. It reinforced the consultative process with the private sector, mainly
through the CRG activities. CRG functioned well in following implementation of reform measures. Thus, the
linkage between the two projects was effective and appreciated by the private sector and the GOS.
25.   The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory. Major attention was paid to monitoring the
implementation of five conditions for the second tranche release. The delay in the completion of FIAS
consultants' three studies, which were included among these conditions, postponed the second tranche release (see
paragraph 16 a). Given this delay that was not subject to the Government responsibility, the Bank had to decide
whether to waive some of the conditions for the release of the second tranche according to the agreed timetable.
Because the reform measures in question were crucial, the Bank decided to delay the second tranche release, a
reasonablejudgment overall. It was also reassuring that the Bank envisaged a follow up of the implementation of
these measures in the PFP for 1995-98. The Bank supervised the project only once in July 1995. However,
participation of the task manager in the PFP discussion in September 1995 was an effective follow-up to the
modification of the time table.
G. BORROWERPERFORMANCE
26.   The Borrower's performance in preparation of the reform program was satisfactory overall. Since the
program could hurt the interests of some protected economic actors (e.g. monopolies in imported products and
labor at the port), the Government's attitude toward the reform measures was prudent at beginning of project
preparation. However, the rationale for continuing many protective measures was lost when the political economic
environment changed completely after the devaluation. Through seminars and discussions involving the private



7
sector and with the technical support of the Bank, the MEFP was convinced of the need for a reform program and
it took a decisive step when it negotiated the elimination of special agreements granted to some enterprises.
27.   Management of the PSAC was centralized in the MEFP. Most MEFP officials demonstrated a high
degree of ownership and understanding of the rationale and implications of the reform measures. The
stakeholders' commitment to the project developed through the private sector's participation in the identification
of constraints to their development, including that of small enterprises and merchants.
28.   The borrower's performance in implementation of the reform measures was satisfactory, except for the
reform of the temporary import regime, implementation of the new investment incentive system, and adoption of
an action plan for improving competitiveness of the port of Dakar. The MEFP showed leadership in involving
other ministries in the implementation of the reform measures. All legal covenants and conditions for tranche
release were met, includingthe achievement of a satisfactoryeconomic framework, the objective for 1995. As for
the reform of the temporary import regime, implementation of the new investment incentive system, and adoption
of an action plan for improving competitiveness of the port of Dakar, the Government has yet to show its
commitment and ability to complete the reform program in a timely fashion. Those measures were to be followed
up in the context of the PFP for 1995-98
29.   The GOS needs to improve its economic data gathering for project monitoring and evaluation, in order to
assess accurately the economic impact of the reform program. It, therefore, needs to : (a) collect and analyze
relevant data, including statistics of exports and imports of major products; and (b) pursue the consultativeprocess
with the private sector which was taken under the project to inform all stakeholders periodically about the results
and effectiveness of the adopted reform measures.
30.   The Borrower followed the procurement procedures specified in the Credit Agreement. Audits of the
credit were done in September 1996.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.   The overall outcome of the PSAC is judged to be satisfactory. This assessment is based on: (a)
satisfactory achievement of the objectives of completing the liberalization of domestic and external trade and
reducing maritime transportationcosts; (b) satisfactory project design and ownership of the reform program by the
Borrower; (c) sustainability of certain reform measures that were adopted; and (d) satisfactory overall
performance of the Bank and of the Borrower.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.   To follow up on the implementation and assess the effectiveness of the measures that were adopted, the
Bank needs to monitor: (a) the impact of a new law on free trade regime; (b) the amendment of the Customs Code
necessary to implement the remaining eight measures of the temporary import regime; (c) the implementation of
an action plan for new fiscal incentive regime for investments, in the context of the PFP for 1995-98; (d) the
validity of the new rate of COSEC's levy on imported goods; and (e) the implementation of an action plan to
improve the competitiveness of the port of Dakar.
33.   The PSAC-supported reforms aimed at improving the macroeconomic environment and stimulating the
supply response of the private sector. Sector specific issues are expected to be addressed in future operations. To
this end, several actions being considered by the GOS and the Bank should be implemented timely in the
following sectors: (a) Energy sector the regulatory framework and the issue of administered prices of goods



8
and services, including petroleum products, are to be addressed by an upcoming project to be supported by the
Bank and other donors; (b) Water sector pricing of water is to be addressed by an ongoing water supply project;
(c) Transportation sector pricing of sea and air transportation is to be addressed by an upcoming Bank
operation, based on the analysis and recommendations of the ongoing studies under the PSAC: and (d)
Telecommunications sector: a dialogue between the GOS and the telecommunication sector is currently
proceeding and it deals with the privatization of SONATEL (Societe Nationale de la Telecommunication).
Supporting measures to create a competitive environment in this sector are also required.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.    Three major lessons can be drawn from implementation of the PSAC:
(a) Participation of stakeholders in the project In preparing adjustment operations, the Bank should
emphasize the identificationof needed reforms by national stakeholders and not propose its own program.
In the case of the PSAC, the Bank recommended that the GOS start with discussions through CRG with
various stakeholders to identify the impediments to private sector development and the reform measures
to eliminate them. As a result, the reform program gained broad support which also reinforced the
Government's commitment to proceed. Thus, by encouraging stakeholders' participation in the
development of policy options, the Bank directly encouragedthe Borrower's internalization of the reform
program. This approach was substantially different from previous adjustment operations in Senegal.
(b) Commitment of the Borrower. The Borrower needs to give clear signs of its commitment to carry out
the proposed reforms early on in the project preparation. In the case of the PSAC, the Bank was able to
assess thoroughly the Government's commitment by asking the GOS to implement concrete measures
before seeking Board approval. The Bank made clear that the PSAC would not be presented to the Board
unless certain important measures were implemented. The changes in the political economic environment
brought about by the devaluation made it easier for the Government to take decisions that would
otherwise have been difficult to implement, such as the elimination of special agreements to some large
enterprises. In retrospect, the assessment of the Government's commitment was an essential factor in
achieving the objectives of this project and it can be replicated in future similar operations.
(c) Consultation with the private sector for deepening the reforms. The PSAC helped to lift certain, but
not all barriers to private sector development. The reform measures included were not comprehensive
mainly due to the time constraint resulting from the necessity for timely realization of the adjustment
operation. To further deepen the reforms initiated by the PSAC, the GOS should ensure a continuing
dialogue with all the stakeholders to identify remaining constraints, and design and implement
appropriate reform measures. Economic players, for example, often urge simplification of administrative
procedures, such as those of customs offices, which they believe lack transparency and discourage SMEs
from importing products and creating new enterprises.



9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
(Cr. 2681-SN)
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives
Substantial       Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                 4
Sector policies                        4
Financial objectives                   l
Institutional development              l
Physical objectives                                                                    l
Poverty reduction                                                                      l
Gender concerns                                                                        l
Other social objectives                                                               4
Environmental objectives                                                               l
Public sector management                                                               l
Private sector development             4
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability
Likely               Unlikely               Uncertain
4
C. Bank performance
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                                            4
Preparation assistance               4
Appraisal                            4
Supervision                                               4
D. Borrower performance
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                               4
Implementation                                            4
Covenant compliance                                       4
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome    Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Highly
Unsatisfactory
4



10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credittitle                                Purpose                           Year of       Status
approva
Preceding Operations
StructuralAdjustmentlV            Program  of macro reforms aimed at consolidating          1990         Closed
(Credit2090-SN)                   progress under previous SAL operations.  Particular
emphasis to be given to eliminating obstacles to private
sector growth and to improving efficiency of public
resource management and rationalizingparapublic sector.
Economic Recovery Credit (Credit  To help to deepen the adjustment program taken since      1994         Closed
2582-SN)                           1993, it supported: (i) CFAF devaluation; (ii) increase in
key producer prices; (iii) social measures to attenuate the
effects  of  the  devaluation.  (iv)  reduction  and
simplification of tariffs and domestic taxation; and (vi)
protection of social sector expenditures.
Simultaneous Operations
Private Sector Capacity Building  To accelerate the growth of the private sector. it aims to:  1995     On-going
Project                           (i) provide business advisory services through a Private
(Credit2759-SE)                   Sector Foundation; (ii) alleviate policy and regulatory
constraints; and (iii) transfer of public enterprises to the
private sector and carry out a communicationsprogram.
Agricultural Sector Adjustment    To support the Government program to resume structural     1995       On-going
Credit                            adjustment in agriculture, it aims to: (i) liberalize domestic
(Credit 2582-SN)                  marketing and pricing of agricultural products; (ii) reform
the agricultural trade regime; (iii) privatize the production,
processing, and marketing of products still dominated by
parastatals; and (iv) prepare a three-year rolling
investment program for the agricultural sector.
Following Operations
Public Sector Management          Strengthen institutional capacity to carry out budget     1998       Preparation
Operation                         reform and civil service reform, among others.
Energy Sector i11 Operation       _n/a_                                                                Preparation
Transport Sector 11 Operation                                                               1998       Preparation



I1
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                          Date planned                              Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                              n/a                                        January 1994
Initial discussion with IDA                                 n/a                                         March 1994
Pre-appraisal                                               n/a                                       September 1994
Appraisal/Negotiations                     December 1994/January 1995                        December 1994/January 1995
Board presentation                                   February 1995                                  February 16, 1995
Signing                                             February 1995                                   February 23, 1995
Effectiveness                                       February 1995                                   February 28, 1995
Project Completion                                  December 1995                                  December 28, 1995
Credit closing                                         June 1996                                    October 30, 1996
Table 4: Studies Included In the Project
Study                           Purpose   as   defined   at Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefmed
1. Study on the revision of the  (i) to make the incentive tax package  Completed   Guided a revision of the law relating
Free Trade Zone (FTZ)           compatible with international practice; (ii)           to the FTZ which was approved by
to  improve  the  transparency  of  the                 the NationalAssembly in Dec. 1995.
agreement process; and (iii) to improve the
implementationand control of the FTZ
2.   Study on the temporary   To improve the administrative procedures  Completed   Guided an action plan aiming to
import/drawback      regimes  of the temporary import and duty drawback                 improve of customs procedures and
(rgimes douaniers suspensifs)    systems.                                               procedures relating to merchandise in
transit in the port of Dakar.
3. Study on the fiscal incentive  To rationalize and consolidate all existing   Completed   Guided an action plan focusing on
regimes                         schemes of investment incentives and to                 consolidatingall investment incentives
simplify procedures.                                   in the Tax Code.
4. Analysis of the costs of the   To analyze the cost of using the port and   In progress
port and airport of Dakar       airport of Dakar and to propose measures
to lower the costs.



12
Table 5: Status Of Legal Covenants
Credit    Covenant Type   Present              Description of Covenant              Com ments
Agreement                  Status
Section
3.01 (a)   Implementation    C    The Borrower and the IDA shall from time to time, at    Fulfilled
the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement,
3.01(b)    Implementation    C    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower    Fulfilled
shall furnish to the IDA for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the IDA shall reasonably
request.
3.01(c)    Implementation    C    Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a)    Fulfilled
of the Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with
the IDA on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Credit of the Program, or any
action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.02        Procurement     C    Except as the IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement    Fulfilled
of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
3.03 (a)     Accounts/       C    The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained  Fulfilled
audit             records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
3.03 (b)     Accounts/      CD    The Borrower shall:                                Finalized in
audit                                                                    9/96
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently  applied,  by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the IDA;
(ii) furnish to the IDA as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the IDA
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the IDA such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit



13
Credit    CovenantType   Present                Description of Covenant               Comments
Agreement                  Status
Section
thereof as the IDA shall from time to time reasonably
request.
3.03 (c)     Accounts/      CD    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals   Finalized in
audit              from the Credit Account were made on the basis of      9196
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the IDA has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
out of the Special Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iv) enable the IDA's representatives to examine such
records; and
(v) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
C  = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



14
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of project cycle                  Planned                      Revised                        Actual
Through appraisal                             n/a                                                       200.9
(preparation, preappraisal)
Appraisal-Board                               n/a                                                         16.0
(negotiation)                                                                                                              I
Supervision                                   n/a                                                        33.9
Completion                                    n/a                                                          8.4
Total                                         n/a                                                       259.2
n/a: not available
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Days      Specialized staff skills               Develop-
Stage of Project   Montb/   Number    in               represented          Implementat    ment       Types of problems
Cycle:           year       of       field                               -ion status   objectives
Persons
Through appraisal    Oi94         3        19    Sr. Project Officer (TM),                             Participationin
Consultant, Economist                               Competitiveness
Seminar and pre-
appraisal
03/94       1        14    Sr. ProjectOfficer(TM)
Appraisal through
Board approval
Supervision            07/95       2        10    Sr. Project Officer (TM),         S           S       Second tranche
Financial Analyst                                   release conditions
Completion             02/96       1         5     Financial Analyst
Note: TM=Task Manager



15
PART III. APPENDIXES
A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
Un peuple - Un but - Une foi
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE,
DES FINANCES ET DU PLAN
COMITE DE S UIVI DES PROGR4 MMES
DE POLITIOUE ECO0NVOMIQUE
RAPPORI DE FIN D 'EXECUTION DUr lPRO.JET
D)'AJl[S''E M'ENT SXT'RCJC'U1RE12L ET D)E
COMPE'ITIVITE DU SEC TEUIR PRIVE
Octobr-e 1996



16
LISTE DES ABBREVIATIONS ET SIGLES
PASCO                  Projet d'Ajustement Structurel et de Competitivite du Secteur Prive
FCFA                   Franc de la Cooperation Financiere Africaine
PAST                   Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel des Transports
PASA                   Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel de l'Agriculture
MEFP                   Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan
SIPOA                  Societe Industrielle Pharmaceutique de l'Ouest Africain
ISLIMA                 Industrie Senegalaise pour le Linge de maison
CSPT                   Compagnie Senegalaise des Phosphates de Taiba
SOCOCIM                Societe Commerciale des Ciments
ICOTAF                 Industries Cotonnieres Africaines
SODEFITEX              Societe de Developpement des Fibres textiles
ICS                    Industries Chimiques du SENEGAL
SOTEXKA                Societe des textiles de Kaolack
SENSAC                 Societe Senegalaise des Sacs
SOCOSAC                Soci&te Commerciale du Sac
SIPS                   Societe Industrielle de Papeterie du Senegal
SNTI                   Societe Nationale de Tomate Industrielle
SOCAS                  Societe des Conserveries alimentaires du SENEGAL
GMD                    Grands Moulins de DAKAR
PAD                    Port Autonome de Dakar
PME                    Petites et Moyennes entreprises
BMOP                   Bureau de la Main d'oeuvre Portuaire
COSENAM                Compagnie Senegalaise de Navigation maritime
COSEC                  Conseil Senegalais des Chargeurs
CNUCED                 Conference des Nations-Unies pour le Commerce et le D6veloppement
DCPE                   Document cadre de Politique Economique
IDA                    International Development Association
DAKAR-MARINE           Societe de Reparation Navale



17
INTRODUCTION
Dans le contexte de surevaluation persistante du FCFA qui a prevalu a partir de 1985,
I'ajustement interne mis en oeuvre depuis 1979 a montre ses limites dans la recherche d'une
plus grande competitivite et l'instauration d'une croissance economique durable. Malgre un
diff&entiel d'inflation favorable au Senegal, les investissements directs s'etaient inscrits A la
baisse. les exportations de produits industriels avaient du mal a croitre plus vite que les
importations que dopait la surevaluation de la monnaie en l'absence de facteurs exogenes a
effets contraires tels que I'attentisme des milieux d'affaires pendant le premier semestre
electoral de 1993. Les tendances economiques etaient ainsi incompatibles avec l'objectif de
v iabilite des comptes exterieurs.
Cette sitLation a conduit a l'operation de devaluation du franc CFA intervenue en Janvier
1994. Cependant, fallait-il egalement prendre des mesures d'accompagnement pour permettre
aI l'appareil productif de saisir pleinement les opportunites offertes par cette nouvelle donne.
Ces mesures dont la finalite est le developpement de l'offre du secteur prive ont fait l'objet
d'un programme d'ajustement structurel et de competitivite (PASCO) soutenu par la Banque
%fondiale.
I - LES ORIENTATIONS DU PASCO
Les principales orientations du PASCO sont:
- le renforcement de la concurrence interieure et Famrlioration de la Competitivite des
entreprises;
- la rationalisation de la fiscalite tant de porte qu'interieure;
- la promotion des exportations;
- I'amelioration du cadre reglementaire et juridique
- 'amrliolration du fonctionnement du marche du travail:
- la baisse des couts des facteurs de production;
- le renforcement du soutien institutionnel au secteur prive.
Pour atteindre les objectifs s'inscrivant dans le cadre des orientations generales ci-dessus
rappelees. un plan d'actions a ete adopte. Les mesures specifiques contenues dans ce plan
viennent renforcer celles plus globales repertoriees dans le Document-Cadre de Politique
Economique 1994-97.
11 - LE PROGRAMME D'ACTIONS ET SA MISE EN OEUVRE (Voir annexe)
Quatre axes strategiques composent le programme de reforme.
1) encourager la concurrence dans le domaine du Commerce interieur et des
importations.
Les programmes de reforme economique inities depuis 1979 ont certes permis de realiser des
azancees significatives dans le domaine de la liberalisation, mais 1'existence de prix
;idmitistr6s sur le marche local. de moniopoles de jure. d'avantages fiscaux et de barriercs 11o01



18
tarifaires (autorisations prealables) dressees contre les &hanges constituaient encore des
entraves a la concurrence.
Dans le but d'eliminer ces entraves, les autorites ont mis en oeuvre des mesures pour limiter le
contr6le des prix, lexistence des barrieres non tarifaires et la revision des conventions et
protocoles d'accord speciaux dans le sens de leur extinction ou de la reduction des avantages
qu'ils accordent.
Conformement aux orientations imprimees au PASCO, le contr6le des prix a ete assoupli et
des criteres precis ont ete identifies pour guider les restrictions a la liberte des prix afin de
proteger la sante des populations et 1'environnement et de combattre les pratiques
anticoncurrentielles. Seules les prix de 11 produits et services' sont fixes par voie
administrative contre vingt quatre avant la mise en oeuvre du PASCO. Ces produits et
services sont soit foumis par des monopoles d'Etat (eau, electricite, telephone) soit relevent du
domaine agricole. Les prix de 1'eau evoluent dans le cadre defini par le Troisieme projet Eau
et ceux des transports dans celui defini par le PAST. Les prix de l'e1ectricite et des produits
petroliers feront l'objet d'un nouvel examen dans le cadre d'un programme d'ajustement de
secteur de 1 energie.
Entre Aoat 1994 et Novembre 1995, les prix de douze produits ont et& lib6ralis6s2 soit dans le
cadre du PASCO, soit dans le cadre du Programme d'Ajustement du secteur Agricole (prix de
I'huile d'arachide, prix du riz, prix aux producteurs de l'arachide et du coton).
Les barrieres non tarifaires ont ete levees au fur et a mesure. Seules les importations d'or et
d'ar.gent en barres et de vetements de seconde main ( leurs importations ont fait l'objet de
liberalisation en juillet 1996 ) restaient reglementees pour des raisons de politique monetaire
et de sante.
En aout 1994, les autorisations prealables frappant les produits suivants ont ete supprimees
c.reales (mil. sarrasin, sorgho, etc ..... ), or et bijouterie, magazines et periodiques, noix de cola.
engrais mineraux et chimiques, sacs d'emballage en jute et bandes preenregistrees. Quatre
autres produits s'ajoutaient a cette liste en octobre et novembre 1994. Dans le cadre du
Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole (PASA), les autorisations prealables frappant
les produits agricoles ou agro-industriels tels que le sucre, le riz, les oignons, les bananes. les
pommes de terre et les semences de pomme de terre ont ete eliminees. Les Autorites
senegalaises ont egalement montre leur volonte de rationaliser la gestion des importations.
C'est dans cet esprit que le systeme de reference base sur les valeurs mercuriales a ete
supprime (Arrete du MEFP n 004744 du 14 juin 1994). Toutefois, une mesure de sauvegarde
a e  prise par l'adoption d'une loi contre les pratiques de dumping (decret d'application 95-76
du 20 janvier 1995). En vue egalement de limiter voire e1iminer les pratiques de positions
dominantes suir le marche, une loi sur la concurrence (loi n94-53 du 22/08/94) a ete adopte
(decret d'application n95-76 du 20/01/95).
il s'agit des produits et services suivants: pain, medicamenits de fabrication locale et services de sante, butanie et
charbon de bois. produits petroliers, transports urbains. services de transport. electricite, eau et telephone.
2il s'agit des produits suivants: savon, lait, cafe, boissons non alcoolisees. fers Ai bdton et levure (liber6s en Aout
1994), cinenit. hiLile de cuisson de fabrication locale (1luile d'arachide exceptee), purc de toniate, tomnatc traicile
(janvier I995). huile d'arachlide (debut 19995), riz brise (jUin 1' 95).



19
Concernant les accords sp6ciaux, en Aoat 1994, le gouvernement a pris l'engagement par ecrit
de ne plus etendre ou transferer aux nouveaux proprietaires certaines conventions speciales
qui viendraient a expiration. Il s'agit des conventions speciales conclues avec les societes
suivantes:
Trefileries dakaroises, Societe Industrielle et Pharmaceutique de l'Ouest Africain (SIPOA),
ISLIMA, CSPT. AFRICAN FOOD et DAKAR-MARINE. Les conventions et protocoles
d'accord restant ont fait l'objet de renegociation en vue d'y mettre fin et d'e1iminer les
avantages fiscaux y afferents de facon graduelle. II s'agit des conventions speciales ou des
protocoles d'accord avec la SOCOCIM, ICOTAF, SODEFITEX, ICS, SOTEXKA, SENSAC,
SOCOSAC, SIPS, SNTI, SOCAS. GMD et SENTENAC. L'accord ne prevoit pas non plus le
transfert des avantages lies A ces dispositions speciales aux nouveaux proprietaires en cas de
privatisation de ces societes. Un plan d'action pour la renegociation de chaque accord special a
ete adopte en octobre 1994. Un protocole d'accord mettant fin a certaines conventions
speciales a ete signe en novembre 1994.
20) Promotion des exportations
En vue de stimuler les exportations, les autorisations prealables a 1'exportation encore en
vigueur ont ete supprimees a lexception de celles frappant l'exportation d'arachide d'huilerie
(afin de ne pas compromettre la privatisation de l'huilerie) et les matieres precieuses. En plus,
les importations d'emballage (par les exportateurs) sous regimes douaniers suspensifs ont ete
autorisees (Arrete du MEFP n 004743 du 14 Juin 1994).
Dans ce sillage, le fonctionnement du regime de la zone franche et des points francs a ete
ivalue et cela a abouti A l'institution du statut de l'Entreprise Franche d'Exportation (Loi n
95-34 du 23 Decembre 1995).
Sur le plan fiscal, une etude en vue de rationaliser la gestion des regimes douaniers suspensifs
tels que le regime de I'admission temporaire a et realisee et un plan d'action etabli en accord
avec l'IDA en decembre 1995. Ce plan est en execution de maniere progressive par les
services des douanes.
Sur le plan des procedures administratives. les documents du commerce exterieur ont ete
normalises a travers l'application rendue obligatoire de la norme NS 06-001 pour en reduire de
maniere notable la duree et les couts (decret 94-1169).
30) Les regimes d'incitation a l'investissement
Concernant les investissements, I'acces a des professions dont l'exercice ne compromet ni la
sante ni la securite publique a et liberalise (Loi 94-69 du 22 Aofit 1994, d6cret d'application
95-132 du ler Fevrier 1995). De meme, les taxes frappant l1'tablissement de nouvelles
societes ont &te reduites (Loi 95-06 du 01 Mai 1995), notamment pour les PME un plan
d'action en vue de mettre en place un systeme d'incitations a l'investissement de droit commun
en remplacement des regimes derogatoires a ete elabore en Novembre 1995; une loi (loi n94-
64 du 22 aoat 1994) autorisait l'Etat A proceder a la vente de terrains a usage industriel et
commercial conform  aux normes d'urbanisme ainsi que son decret d'application (decret 95-
7',7 du 31 juillct 19') L ont ete adoptes.



20
40) Reduction des couts du facteur travail
Dans le but de r6duire les coats des facteurs techniques de production, la flexibilite du marchI6
du travail constitue une preoccupation majeure des entreprises. Ainsi, par lo] n94-80 du 8
decembre 1994, les entreprises sont autorisees a ajuster la taille de leurs effectifs au volume de
leurs activites.
Les chiffres bruts fournis par le Ministere du Travail et de l'Emploi sur les licenciements
effectues par les entreprises (soit pour motif economique, soit pour depart negocie) montrent
une baisse de 18 %, bien qu'il faille etre prudent dans l'interpretation de ces chiffres.
De meme, le monopole d'embauche devolu au Bureau de la Main d'oeuvre portuaire (BMOP)
a ete aboli (decret 94-814 du 30 juillet 1994 et circulaire du PAD n00169 du 27 Novembre
1995). Des manutentionnaires utilisant le port de Dakar ont initie la procedure pour la creation
d'un autre bureau de main-d'oeuvre portuaire.
Le transport maritime, de par la position centrale qu'il occupe dans le systeme economique
national, a fait l'objet d'attention dans la perspective de reduction des couits de production.
C'est ainsi que le monopole de la COSENAM sur le transport maritime alloue a l'armement
domestique, a ete aboli. En plus, la repartition des cargaisons maritimes qu'effectuait le
COSEC au titre de la regle des 40/40/20 de la CNUCED se limite desormais au trafic sur
lignes regulieres conference.
Le Conseil senegalais des chargeurs a vu son r6le recentre sur la defense des inter&ts de ses
membres et un taux de prelevement sur les importations de 0,2 % a ete fixe par son Conseil
d'Administration le 17 Aouit 1995 et notifie pour application au MEFP a partir du 19
decembre 1995. Les prelevements sur les exportations ou les inputs importes pour la
production de biens destines a l'exportation ont ete supprimes (decret 94-606 du 9 juin 1994).
En vue d'ameliorer la performance et la competitivite du PAD et de l'A&oport de Dakar-Yoff,
un systeme de plombage des conteneurs a ete institue (Arrete n 00327 du 1 1 janvier 1995) et
une etude visant a analyser les services aeroportuaires a et realisee. Le rapport final du
consultant est parvenu au MEFP en Septembre 1996. Les conclusions et recommandations
formulees dans le cadre de cette etude permettront, une fois mises en oeuvre, de rendre
l'Aeroport international Dakar-Yoff plus competitif. L'etude sur les services portuaires ne
trouve pas encore de financement.
III - LES PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT INFLUENCE LA BONNE MARCHE
DU PROJET.
La conception du PASCO a grandement beneficie du contexte favorable ne de la devaluation
du franc CFA faisant suite a un large debat sur la question des monopoles durant les premiers
mois d'application du Plan d'Urgence du Gouvernement. Ainsi, aussi bien au sein de
l'Administration que du secteur priv6. un changement de comportement .itait perceptible. Ce
qui rendait pIlus facile la prise de certaines decisions en mati&re de reformes structurelles. La
politique de concertation engagee par les pouvoirs publics a permis de batir un consensus
autour de l'essentiel des mesures prises compposant le plan d action attache aLl 1PASCo.



21
L'Utroite collaboration entre la partie senegalaise et la Banque Mondiale a egalement permis
de ne retenir que des mesures applicables.
Les conditionnalites ont ete bien ciblees. Plusieurs mesures avaient deja ete mises en
application avant l'entree en vigueur de I'accord de credit. Les conditions de deblocage de la
deuxieme tranche ne depassent guere l'effectivite de quatre mesures sp&cifiques en plus de la
definition d'un cadre economique satisfaisant.
La bonne tenue de la situation des finances publiques a contribue a entretenir un cadre
macroeconomique permettant la poursuite des reformes.
IV - L'EXPERIENCE TIREE DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
La devaluation du franc CFA intervenue en 1994 necessitait la prise de mesures
d'accompagnement appropriees. Le projet d'Ajustement structurel et de Competitivite du
secteur prive s'inscrit dans cette dynamique. 11 a ainsi e  elabore pour tirer le meilleur parti du
changement de parite et s'integre parfaitement dans le cadre de la strategie d'ajustement global
adoptee par le Gouvernement pour la p&iode 1994-1997.
Dans le contexte ne de la devaluation, 1'experience capitalisee dans le domaine des politiques
-lobales et sectorielles d'ajustement depuis la fin des annees 1970 a contribue a faciliter
]'identification et la mise en application du plan d'action attache au PASCO. Le consensus
issu de la concertation entre les representants de lAdministration et du secteur prive
(employeurs et employes) a aussi &te d'un apport appreciable; ce qui a permis son execution
relativement facile.
L'adhlsion des differents partenaires dont la Banque Mondiale a ete a la dimension de la
Nolont6 des Autorites pour une application diligente du plan d'action. Toutefois, I'absence
d'une maitrise totale des echeances liees a certaines mesures ayant servi de base a des
conditions de tirage du credit soutenant le Projet, a constitue par moment une menace sur
lXequilibre des operations financieres de l'Etat.
Comme pour le Credit d'appui a la relance economique mis en place au lendemain de la
;levaluation, 1'execution des mesures fondamentales du Projet a precede le deboursement de
l aide budgetaire qui I'accompagne. Cette approche a le merite de participer a faire beneficier
i lXsconomie, le plus t6t possible, des avantages attendus des mesures mises en oeuvre.
Cepeadant. elle requiert une mobilisation a bonne date des concours attendus afin de porter la
plus grande attention a l'execution des mesures et de leurs effets immediats.
V - LA PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ET DU GOUVERNEMENT
DU SENEGAL
L'apport de la Banque Mondiale dans la preparation du projet a ete tres appreciable. Elle a tait
preuve de diligence, d'efficacite et de comprehension a chaque fois que c'etait n&essaire. Le
souci de faire beneficier l1'conomie des avantages de la devaluation et des mesures du
l'ASCO ainsi que la necessite de sauvegarder Ia stahblit du cadre macroeconoomique ont etc



22
des preoccupations constantes a la base de la mobilisation dont ont fait preuve la Banque et le
Gouvernement. Cela a preside A la realisation du plan d'action et la gestion des echeances
liees aux decaissements des deux tranches du credit associe au Projet.
Les autorites senegalaises ont respecte l'esprit des mesures et ont cherche a assurer la
perennit6 de leur impact en les consolidant A travers les orientations clairement definies dans
le Document-Cadre de Politique Economique (DCPE) 1994-97 ainsi que dans les lettres de
politique sectorielle de developpement depuis la devaluation. Mieux, la strategie de
developpement a moyen et long termes inspiree de l'ajustement global et du PASCO a fait
l'objet d&une concertation elargie a tous les acteurs de la vie economique et sociale avant
d'etre mise au point pour les besoins de la troisieme reunion du Groupe consultatif pour le
Senegal.
VI - LES LECONS TIREES DE L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
L'identification et l'execution du Projet ont et placees sous le signe de la concertation pour la
competitivite et la croissance. L'acc6l6ration de la mise en oeuvre des mesures principales a
beneficie de la protection apportee par le changement de parite et de la qualite de la politique
mnacroeconomnique qui est appliquee dans le cadre de l'ajustement global. Ainsi, le bon
deroulement du PASCO permet de reaffirmer l'importance de la convergence des approches
des differents partenaires au sein d'une vision commune des problemes a resoudre et de la
finalit& du projet.



Republic of Senegal
Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit - Policy Matrix
Objectives        Ref. of                                Actions                               Responsible  |Initial Timetable         Achievement
RRP                                                                          Ministry           in RRP          (Legal Document)
K Proufios   Cr               in Domestic and Extea  Tr:de                                                      
Liberalize foreign    1.1        Abolish the reference system for imports (valeurs mercuriales)  MEFP/DGD          I st tranche        Done l
trade                            by January 1, 1995 consistent with GATT.                                          (before Board       (Arrete No. 004744
presentation)       of 6/14/94)
1.2          Suppression of prior authorizations to import (see attached list)   MEFP/DGD/    I st tranche        Done 2
MCAI/DCE/D   (before Board           (Decree 94-669
Ci               presentation)       of 6/30/94)
1.3         Adoption  of application  decree of the anti-dumping  law   MEFP                  Ist tranche         Done 3
satisfactory to IDA                                                              (before Board       (Decree 95-76 of
presentation)       1/20/95)
Eliminate and       1.4          Competition Law and creation of the Competition Committee:    MCAI/DCI                                (Law 94-53 of
limit practices of                                                                                                                     8/22/94)
dominant                         (i) Adoption  of an  application  decree  regulating  prices                      I st Tranche        Done 4
positions in the                 satisfactory to IDA.                                                              (before Board       (Decree 95-76 of
market                                                                                                             presentation)        1/20/95)
Send a letter to IDA and to enterprises officially confirming the  MEFP          August 1994          Done 5                           W
Following the decision of the GOS to rely exclusively on an appropriate tariff structure in order to rationalize the administration of imports, the GOS abolished the valuation system of
imports based on reference prices by January 1995 (I st tranche release condition).
2 The liberalization of imports has been completed except for gold and silver bars and second-hand clothing. Out of the 18 prior authorizations (APs or Autorisations prealables) then in
effect, which concerned goods estimated to represent about 6% of GDP, 7 were abolished in August 1994 (cereals comparable to those locally produced, gold and jewelry, magazines
and periodicals, kola nuts, mineral and chemical fertilizers, jute packing bags, and pre-recorded tapes) and 4 others in October and November 1994 (tomato paste, cement, vegetable
oil, and polypropylene packing bags; the abolition of APs on the above II products was a Ist tranche release condition). The AP to import wheat flour was abolished in November
1995, after expiration of the one-year notice required by the special agreement between the Government and the millers. The application decrees for abolishing the remaining APs of
agricultural products became effective in the context of ASAC (for potatoes and seed potatoes in December 1994, for bananas in January 1995, for sugar in February 1995 and for
rice in September 1995).
3Concerning the application of the Antidumping Law adopted in August 1994, t..e GOS decided to use only tariff surcharges to sanction dumping practices. In addition, IDA indicated that
the provision of the decree YDiould clearly establish that dumping practices would be identified by a process fully compatible with General Agreement on Tariff and Trade (GATT)
dispositions and sanctioned by temporary tariff surcharges. A decree satisfactory to IDA was enacted in January 1995 (Ist tranche release condition).
4As previously agreed with IDA, a Competition law and application decree were enacted in August 1994 and in January 1995, respectively. Although price liberalization was not a
condition of the reform program, it was actively pursued in parallel with import liberalization and abolition of prior authorization to import. The prices of 13 of the 24 products that
were subject to price controls were liberalized. The list of 11 products the price of which would be still controlled was specified in the application decree (1st tranche release
condition). Out of these II products, which represent only about 3% of GDP, the prices of 6 products (soap, milk, coffee, soft drinks, steel reinforcing rods, and yeast) were
decontrolled in August 1994 and those of 4 products (cement, locally produced cooking oil excluding locally produced peanut oil, tomato paste, and fresh tomatoes) in January 1995.
In the context of ASAC, the price of peanut oil and of sugar were freed in January and that of rice in March 1995.



Objectives        Ref. of                                Actions                               Responsible    Initial Timetable       Achievement
RRP                                                                          Ministry           in RRP          (Legal Document)
1.5         end of expired special agreements, stating that they will not be                                      (Letters of 8/25/94)
extended or transferred to new owners in case of sale
(TRELIFERIES DAKAROISES, SlPOA ISLIMA, CSPT,
AFRICAN FOOD, DAKAR MARINE).
1.6         Renegotiate remaining special agreements and protocols in  MEFP
order to: (a) eliminate these agreements; and (b) gradually
eliminate  their  tax   benefits  (SOCOCIM,   ICOTAF,
SODEFITEX, ICS, SOTEXKA, SENSAC, SOCOSAC, SIPS,
SNTI, SOCAS, GRANDS MOULINS, and SENETAC). In
addition, benefits provided by special agreements and protocols
will not be transferred to new owners in case of privatization or
sale of these enterprises.
(i) Agreement about the action plan for renegotiation of each                    Done                 Done ' (Oct. 1995)
special agreement; and
(ii) elimination of special agreements.                                          November 1994        Done 5 (Protocols
signed Nov. 94)
N-
5 All special agreements (Conventions Speciales) were terminated and the advantages that they granted were abolished except for those concerning two exporting enterprises: ICS
(fertilizers) and SODEFITEX (cotton). After having undertaken the review of all the existing special agreements in August 1994, the GOS signed with beneficiaries, in November
1994, protocols terminating special agreements granted to 11 enterprises: SOCOCIM (cement), ICS (fertilizers), SOTEXKA (textiles), ICOTAF (textiles), SIPS (packaging),
SODEFITEX (cotton), GMD (wheat flour), SENTENAC (wheat flour), SNTI (tomato paste), SOCAS (tomato paste), and SOCOSAC (packing bags) (Ist tranche condition). The
special agreements of CSS (sugar) was the last to be eliminated in November 1994 in the context of the ASAC. Temporary tariff surcharges were applied to three products only
(tomato paste 20%, wheat flour 10%, and polypropylene bags 20h) in order to give time to local producers to adapt to foreign competition. These temporary surcharges, however,
are expected to decrease gradually over a period of three years and to be lifted in January 1998. For ICS and SODEFTEX, tariff exemptions for imports of inputs are still granted
because these are exporting enterprises.



Objectives         Ref. of                               Actions                                Responsible    Initial timetable        Achievement
I    RR                                                                           Ministry           in RRP           (Legal Document)
2. Promotion of Exports
Increase exports    2.1           Suppression of prior authorization to export (Decree No 88-956  MEFP/DGD          I st tranche         Done 6
and promote                       of July 12, 1988) cereals, confectionery peanuts, jewelry and                     (before Board        (Decree 94-668 of
investment in the                tomato products.                                                                   presentation)        6/30/94)
export sector
2.2          Allow imports of packaging products through temporary import  MEFP/DGD/    I st tranche                Done 7
regimes (regimes suspensifs, revision of Arrete No.75-79 on  MCAI/DCE/D   (before Board                (ArriW 004743 of
June 28, 1989).                                                  Cl               presentation)        6/14/94)
2.3          Evaluation and review of the current free-trade zone system  in  MEFP/DGD
order to: (i) make the incentive tax package compatible with  MEMI
intermational practice; (ii) improve transparency of the
agreement process; and (iii) improve implementation and
control of the free-trade system:
(i) Terms of reference;                                                           Done                 Done 8
(ii) FIAS Reports available;                                                      February 1995        Done 8 (Jun.1995)
(iii) Agreement with IDA on action plan; and                                      April 1995           Done 8 (Nov. 1995)
(iv) Completion of Implementation.                                                2nd tranche          Done 8 (Law 95-34
of 12/29/95)
2.4          Temporary import regimes (regimes douaniers suspensifs):         MEFP/DGD
(i) Terms of reference;                                                           Done                 Done 9
(ii) FIAS Reports available;                                                      February 1995        Done 9(Oct. 1995)
6 In order to terminate the remaining constraints to export, the GOS abolished all prior authorizations on export except for precious metals. APs on export of cereals, confectionery
groundnuts, fresh tomatoes and jewelry were eliminated in August 1994 and those on exports of tomato paste, in November 1994 (I st tranche release condition). Exports of sugar and
groundnuts for oil production were freed in June 1994 in the context of ASAC.
7In June 1994. the GOS authorized exporters to import, duty free, packaging materials needed to export their goods (I st tranche release condition).
8Under the PSAC, the GOS decided to revise the existing FTZ and SFZ regime to: (i) make the incentive tax package compatible with international practice: (ii) improve the transparency
of the agreement process; and (iii) improve the implementation and the control of the free trade system. A study for revising the regime was carried out by FIAS. an International
Finance Corporation (IFC)'s subsidiary which provides advice on foreign direct investment, and was submitted to the GOS in June 1995. Its recommendations were studied by the
GOS and the private sector, and discussed with the Bank and the IMF in the context of the PFP for the 1995-98 period. In November 1995. agreement was reached with the GOS on
an action plan to implement the recommendations. This action plan called for a revision of the law relating to the FTZ which * as approxed by the National Assembly in December
1995 (2nd tranche release condition). The revision aimed at consolidating in a single law benefits granted to all local or foreign enterprises, whethcr they operate within the FTZ or
not, provided that they export all of their production. The benefits provided by the law include total freedom in recruiting and laying off workers. exemption trom all local taxes and
duties, except for a reduced incomc tax of' 1 5%.
Art action plan proposed by FIAS in Octobcr 1995 and agreed to by the GOS, the Bank, and the IMF in December 1995, was partially implemented. T'his action plan included 23
measures (o improve not onlv customs procedures for temporary imports by exporters, but also procedures relating to merchandise in transiL in the port of Dakar as 54cll as to) the
operations of bonded warehouses. Of these 23 measures, 15 were implemented by circulars in December 1995 issued by the General Directorate for Customs Administration. The 8
remaining measures, which call for amendments of some provisions of the Customs Code, were not implemented. Although amendments could be made immediately to implement 5
of the 8 measures, according to the FIAS study's conclusions, the implementation of the 3 others require either a harmonization of the Customs Code at the level of the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which is currently undcrway (for one rneasure), or additional studies (for 3 measures). The Bank arid the IMF agreed with the COS
that in order to implement all the 8 remaining measures, an amendmeint to the Customs Code Vwotuld be made in 1996 in the context of the PFP for the 1995-98 pcriod. Thus, the f'ull
inipact of the measures on the promotion ot exports cannot be assessed before all of them are implnieieted.



Objectives       Ref. of                             Actions                             Responsible   Initial timetable      Achievement
RR                                                                      Ministry         in RRP         (Legal Document)
(iii) Agreement with IDA on action plan; and                                April 1995         Done (Dec. 1995)
(iv) Completion of Implementation.                                          2nd tranche        Partially done 9
2.5         Simplification of the foreign trade administrative procedures: (i)  MCAI/DCE  November 1994    Done 10
Enactment of the decree regarding compulsory application of                                    (Decree 94.1169)
the instruction (norm) NS 06-001 which considerably reduces
the timing and cost of procedures.
10 The decree enacted in November 1994 requires the use of a standard documentation for exports. This documentation (norm NS06-001), based on United Nations standards, reduces time
and costs of administrative procedures for exports.



Objectives         Ref. of                               Actions                                Responsible   Initial timetable        Achievement
I RRP                                                                         |   Ministry           in RRP          (Legal Document)
3. Promoutio  of Investments                                                                                             -_      _
Simplify            3.1           Establishment of a list of professions whose exercise requires  Interior
procedures and                    prior authorization  because of public  security  and health  Ministry   and
regulations                       reasons. For all other professions, entry will be free and all  Modernization
legislation requiring prior authorization will be abrogated.     Ministry
(i) Agreement on the new list                                                     Done                Done "(Sept. 1994)
(ii) Adoption of the application decree of Law 94-69 of 8/22/94                   2nd tranche         Done "(Decree 95-
132) of 2/1/95)
3.2          Adoption of law reducing taxes applied to the establishment of  MEFP              December 1994    Done 12 Law 95-06
new  enterprises, in particular, for small and medium  size                                           of 5/1/95)
enterprises.                                                                                         Note
Promote             3.3          Introduction of legislation to replace progressively various  MEFP
investment                        incentive regimes and simplify investment procedures (Laws
No. 87-25 and 77-90):
(i) Terms of reference;                                                           Done                Done 13
(ii) FIAS Reports available; and                                                  February 1995       Done 13 (Jun. 1995)
(iii) Agreement with IDA on action plan.                                          2nd tranche         Done 13 (Nov.1995)
3.4          Submission to the National Assembly of a law allowing the  MEFP                   August 1994         Done "4(Law 94-64
Government to  sell land, particularly  for industrial and                                            of 8/22/94)
commercial uses, in accordance with zoning rules.
Adoption of the application decree.                                               January 1995        Done 14 (Decree 95-
_______ ___ ______________________ _   737 of 7/31/95)
A new law was adopted by the National Assembly in August 1994 and an application decree was enacted in February 1995 (2nd tranche release condition). This decree has liberalized
the practice of all professions, except those that relate to or can affect public health, safety and security. The decree also specifies the conditions under which authorization can be
granted to those professions that require it.
12A new law was adopted in May 1995, aiming to facilitate the creation of new enterprises, especially of SMEs, by reducing the level of taxes applied to their creation (registration, etc.).
Consequently, the enterprises whose capital is equal or under 10 million CFAF can enjoy the tax reduction ranging from 17% to 35%.
13An action plan proposed by the FIAS to rationalize and consolidate all existing investment incentives schemes was agreed on between the GOS and the Bank in November 1995 (2nd
tranche release condition). This action plan focuses on consolidating all investment incentives in the Tax Code in order to make their application automatic and transparent. The plan,
in particular, calls for a reduction: import tariffs for capital goods from 23% to 5% and of corporate tax on profits from 35% to 15%. It also proposes to compensate tax revenue
losses that would result from these decreases by extending the Value Added Tax (VAT) to commercial activities. In the context of the PFP negotiations, the Bank, the IMF, and the
GOS agreed that, because of the budgetary impact of the measures envisaged, the extension of the tax base, in particular, through the extension of the VAT to commercial operations,
was a prerequisite to the implementation of investment incentives more favorable to potential investors. Accordingly, the National Assembly adopted a law in December 1995 to
extend the VAT to commercial operations. The action plan will be implemented, in the context of the PFP for the 1995-98 period, when the level of the Govemment tax revenues as
improved as expected.
141n July 1994, the National Assembly approved a law which authorizes the GOS to sell public land either to existing enterprises or to entrepreneurs establishing new ones. The application
decree was implemented.



Objectives    |  Ref. of                                 Actions                                Responsible    Initial timetable        Achievement
RRP                                                                           Ministry           in RRP          (Legal Document)
Improve the         4.1           Enactment of legislation authorizing enterprises to adjust freely  MT/DT          I st tranche         Done '5 (Law 94-
flexibility of the               the size of their working force according to their level of                        (before Board        80 of 12/8/94)
labor markets                    economic activity.                                                                 presentation)
4.2          End monopoly of the BMOP by abolishing the decree 70-181 of  MT/DT                I st tranche         Done 16 (Decree
February 20, 1970.                                                                (before Board        94-814 of 7/30/94)
presentation)       (Circular 00 169
PAD/DG of
11/27/95)
15 A law to this effect was adopted in December 1994 (Ist tranche release condition). Consequently, enterprises can now adjust freely the size of their work force to the level of their
economic activity.
16 The decree to abolish the monopoly of BMOP was enacted in July 1994 (Ist tranche release condition). It was followed by a circular enacted in November 1995 which determined terms
and conditions for opening new offices to hire longshoremen in the port of Dakar. 'I'hree sea carriers applied for the establishment of their own office and it was accepted in May
1996.



Objectives        Ref. of                               Actions                                Responsible   Initial timetable       Achievement
I   RRP  I                                                                  I   Ministry            in RRP         (Legal Document)
S. Reduction of Maritime Transportation Cost
1. COSENAM:         5.1          Abolishment of monopoly of COSENAM  on 40% of domestic  MPTM                     Ist tranche        Done 17 (Law 94-58
Increase                         share of maritime transportation under UNCTAD Convention                         (before Board      of 6/26/94)
competition in the               (40-40-20 rule).                                                                 presentation)
sea transportation
sector.             5.2          Restriction of 40% (mentioned in item 5.1 above) of the traffic  MPTM            I st tranche       Done 18 (Arrete
of conference for regular lines, in accordance with UNCTAD                       (before Board      0509 of 1/20/95)
rules.                                                                           presentation)
2. COSEC:           5.3          Majority representation given to private sector importers and  MPTM              Ist tranche        Done 19 (Decree 94-
(i) Redefine role               exporters at COSEC's Board of Directors.                                         (before Board       606 of 6/9/94)
of COSEC                                                                                                          presentation)
towards the
defense of the      5.4          Determine COSEC's levy on  imported goods based on a  MPTM
interest of                      financial audit of the last three fiscal years:
importers; and                   (i) Completion of the audit; and                                                 March 1995         Not done 21 (audit)
(ii) Lower the                  (ii) Application of the new levy rate.                                            April 1995         Done20 (COSEC
cost of exports                                                                                                                      Board decision made
and imports.                                                                                                                         on 8/17/95 notified
MEFP to implement                  N
through DGD from
12/19/95 onwards.)
5.5         Abolishment of COSEC's levy on exports and intermediate  MPTM                     Ist tranche        Done 21 (Decree
goods imported for the production of goods to be exported                        (before Board      94-606 of 6/9/94)
______________________________  ._______________________.__________________________   presentation)
17 A law, adopted in June 1994, abolished the monopoly granted to COSENAM (a government company) to exploit the 40% of cargo freight allocated to Senegalese companies (1st tranche
release condition).
18 The Government also enacted the Arrete in January 1995 to restrict application of the UNCTAD rule that allocates 40% of sea traffic to national carriers to freight carried by conference
lines, which represents about 10% of total traffic (Ist tranche release condition). This resulted in a virtual liberalization of sea transportation and in opening the competition between
domestic sea carriers.
19 The application decree was implemented in June 1994 (Ist tranche release condition).
20 This measure was implemented, but not as initially envisaged. The Board of directors of COSEC decided to reduce the levy on imported goods from 0.3% to 0.2% in January 1996. No
audit was carried out to determine the appropriate level of reduction that could have been granted. Thus, the objective of decreasing costs for users was reached through a process
lacking objectivity and transparency.
21 The GOS eliminated the fee that COSEC used to levy on all exports and on imports of inputs needed for the production of goods to be exported (1st tranche release condition).



Objectives          Ref. of                                  Actions                                   Responsible    Initial timetable          Achievement
RRP                                                                                Ministry             in RRP           (Legal Document)
3. PAD                5.5           Implementation of the decision to introduce a system  of sealed   DGD/PAD               January 1995          Done Z2
Improve the                         containers to facilitate transshipment of containers within the                                               (Arrdte  No.00327
performance and                     port of Dakar and between the port and the free-zone.                                                         of 1/1 1/95)
competitiveness
of the PAD            5.6           Cost analysis of using the Port and Airport of Dakar (PAD),  PAD/COSEC/
transit, maintenance, landing etc.):                                 CCIA/CAEE/
(i) Terms of reference;                                              MTTA              September 1994        Done
(ii) Proposal of measures to lower the cost for IDA review; and                        May 1995              Not done23
(iii) Completion of implementation of the measures.                                    June 1995             Not done23
Acronyms:
BMOP              Bureau de la Main d'Oeuvre Portuaire                                      MTE                Mini*tre du Travail et de l 'Emploi
COSENAM           Compagnie Senegalaise de Navigation Maritime                              MTTA               Ministere du Tourisme et des Transports Aeriens
CAEE              Cellule d 'Appui a I Environnement des Entreprises                        PAD                Port Autonome de Dakar
CCIA              Chambre de Commerce, dIndustrie et dAgriculture                           RRP                Report and Recommendation of the President (Report No. P-6522-SE)
CSS               Compagnie Sucriere Sendgalaise                                            SIPS               Soci'te Industrielle de Papeterie du Senegal
DCE               Direction du Commerce Exterieur                                           SNTI               Socieiie Nationale de la Tomate Industrielle
DCI               Direction du Commerce Interieur                                           SOCAS              Socieit des Conserveries Alimentaires du Senegal
DGD               Direction Generale des Douanes                                            SOCOSAC            Societe Commerciale du Sac
DT                Direction du Travail                                                      SOCOCIM            Socitii Commerciale des Ciments
GMD               Grands Moulins de Dakar                                                   SODEFITI EX        Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
ICOTAF            Industries Cotonnieres Senegalaises                                       SONATEL            Socied Nationale de la Telecommunication
ICS               Industries Chimiques Africaines                                           SOTEXKA           Societe des Textiles de Kaolack
MCAI              Ministere du Commerce, de I 'Artisanat et de l 'Industrialisation         UNACOIS            Union Nationale des Commercants et des Industriels du Senega/
MEMI              Ministere de l'Energie, des Mines et de l'Industrie                        UNCTAD            United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
MPTM              Ministre de la Peche et des Transports Maritimes
22 An application decree was implemented in January 1995.
23 This latest measure has not been implemented due to substantial administrative delay in carrying out the two studies: The final report on the service of Airport of Dakar became available
in September 1996. CRG was asked in October to organize the workshop to discuss the results and recommendations of the study. The report on the service of Port of Dakar has not
been put into position as of November 1996. The implementation of the action plan resulting from these two studies should be now discussed in the context of the PFP.



MAP SECTION






F rmrr-1-!-"                                              16                             1,5                            1'4-                           13-                             12
SpmsiIsh;rj             ALGERIA
h.       s                                                                                  M A U R I T A N I A                                                       ENEGAL
MAURIANIASENEGAL
MAURITANIA    j                                                                               OZ'or
5.  .   ,                                                               0*_^~'  w  O  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
M A [ I
D.k.r               --.      I \.t                            * I    - o         aickhrSDagrnd                        Hor                                                   ()     REGION CAPITALS
THE--. '   (                /  s  NIGER                                          Toll                              Laa                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
rUFRKINA  -'4  Z                                                                                                                                      REGION BOUNDARIES
GUINEA-,                    FASO
BISSAU.  GUINEA                   -                  (                '                                                                                              ---        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
._IEOVHR~ANA Fm         Sit~Goloyao                                                                                                                                                                 1'
7        Louis    Mp                                                                                ThilogneO       \
Ndi&6neo                                       OL~~~~~~~~0ogbor
Gandiol
Louga0D CNionr6                    Mbeuleukh6                                                Mataroe
Ouro0 o~
Sogui       (*
0Kebemer                     oDara      0Lingu6re                    Ran6rouo                                                                      !
SaglaO                                                                                                         t.            
OM6 S6             Darou                                                                                                                                /
15'                                                0                  Mousti                          V61ing.rar
Tivoouoneo0  Pr Goury   0Ndind                               o     i                                   F6t Boa60
Pikine0             Thies               o Nn         OTaua             0assne
*         0   eb,Sikhoutone      0om6ey             Mbak61
DAKAR    Rufisque                                  Diourbel   0 Kolobane
0MbaPr                                                                                                     Kidiro
MbourOJoYor                                                                                                Toub6r6io
Mb..(  Faiticki)     oGuinguin6o            0Ndiobe6ne                                     B.fol                            Goudiri             A
,ooI-FodiouP                      KaIfrine.              Lour-EscaleG
Joal-Fadiouto              rbokck<3   . -            I                                                                                                                j
SososeK Ndfarneo                              Kungheul0          Kou.pentoum                       Kotiori                                                              I A
Sokoneo    0Rip*                                                   Ko ussnar             0Na           ~MA  LI
Nioro du R
'Maka                                                              Tombacoundo                             oDalafi 
BANJULTH                                                                          -1
T HE                                '        \                                                               &on ~~o'n
GAMBIA                                                                                                       oGa.o.
j -   -*-*-,ls] V61ingarKo M6dna                                       '                                                      lKossonto
Diouloislou 0                                                   '        f    '              Gounas         ,      aSim6nh                                            OMissir. 5  13-
7!    1 ,, s.  i                                  ' Koldo                                                                           0Mako                Soroyn
Bignonao        PMarsassoum
k      S,dh,ouO                                -       - -    --   -                                                                  Nafadiio
Ziguinchor(          K.                                                                                                                                   Nofodii0
>  GUINEA - BISSAU
C -12'                                                                                                                                                                           G      I     E                                12-
c)                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominotions and any other information   12-
_                   KILOMETERS 0                                                                     ;00                                                    shown on this map do eat imply, on the poart of The World Bank Group,   ,
KILoMETERS                                                                                                                              any jucigment on the tegal status o r    territory or any enuarsemet 
KILOMETERS                                                                                               judgm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r centoc of such boundaries.     )
17-  t,6-                                                         14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O acptne12









,--A
,, 
c-1
r-q .Z-)
SF::                                1],   !    )
11                                           I-, c 



