Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Repo"t N P-6522-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 27.6 MILLION (US$ 40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
JANUARY 24, 1995
FILE COPY
This document has a restricted distribution and    Report No: P-    6522 SE
their official duties. Its contents may not othe   Type: PR



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit                                        CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                                             CFAF 531
CFAF 1 million                                       US$ 1,883
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                               U.S. Eauiv_alen
1 meter (m)                                          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn))                                    0.62 miles (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)      e                      0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 hectare (ha)                                       2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)              =                      2,205 pounds (lb.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                     2.2046 pounds (lb.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAC             :    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BCEAO                 Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank)
BMOP             :    Bureau de la Main d'Oeuvre du Port
CNPS                  Conseil National du Patronat du S&66gal
COSEC                 Conseil S6n6galais des Chargeurs
COSENAM          :    Compagnie S6negalaise de Navigation Maritime
CPI                   Consumer Price Index
CRG                   Competitiveness Review Group
CSS              :    Compagnie Sucriere S6n6galaise
FTZ                   Free Trade Zone
GMD                   Grands Moulins de Dakar
ICOTAF                Industries Cotonnieres Africaines
ICS                   Industries Chimiques du S6n6gal;
PAD              :    Port Autonome de Dakar (Dakar Port Authority)
PFP:    Policy Framework Paper
SAR                   Soci6t6 Africaine de Raffinage
SFZ              :    Single Factory Zone
SIPS                  Soci6t6 Industrielle de Papeterie du S6n6gal
SNTI                  Soci6t6 Nationale de la Tomate Industrielle
SOCAS                 Soci6t6 des Conserveries AlimentairoB du SEn6gal
SOCOCIM               Soci6t6 Commerciale des Ciments
SOCOSAC               Societe Commerciale du Sac
SODEF1TEX             Soci6t6 pour le D6veloppement des Fibres Textiles (Textile Company)
SONACOS          :    Soci6te Nationale de Commercialisation des 016agineux (Groundnut Oil Company)
SOTEXKA          :    Soci6t6 des Textiles de Kaolack
UEMOA            :    Union Economique et Mon6taire Ouest Africaine (West African Economic and
Monetary Union)
UMOA                  Union Mon6taire Ouest Afncaine (West African Monetary Union)
WAEMU                 West African Economic and Monetary Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
Table of Contents
Credit and Program Summary .......................................................1i
PART L THIE MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS                                                                               2
PART IL THE PRIVATE SECTOR                                                                 5
A. Private Sectors Role in the Economy ................................................... 5
B. Strategy for Private Sector Development .................................................7
PART IIL THE PROPOSED CREDIT                                                              10
A. The Policy Reform Program               ......... ................................ 10
1. The Promotion of Competition in Domestic and Import Trade ....... 10
2. The Promotion of Exports .............................................  14
3. Investment incentive system .............................................  15
4. Enterprise Competitiveness ............................................  16
B. Credit Features ..................................................             17
C. Agreements reached and Conditionality .................................................. 19
D. Credit Benefits and Risks ...................................................  20
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION                                                                   22
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I:      Policy matrix
Annex II:     Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex III:    Key Economic Indicators
Annex IV:    Balance of Payments
Annex V:      Key Exposure Indicators
Annex VI:    Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex VII:   Senegal's Relations with the AMF
Annex Vm:  Timetable of Key Processing Events
This operation was prepared by a team comprising Cherif M. Azi (Senior Operations Officer and Task Manager,
AF5SE), Ana Novaes (Econonist, AF5LE), Hasan Tuluy (Principal Economist, AF5CO), Bruno Boccara
(Economist, AF5CO), Mark Lewis (Economist, AF5CO), Melkonian (LOAAF) and Kishor Uprety and Theodoor
Elsen (LEGAF). Brendan Horton (AF3C1) is the Peer Reviewer. Melakou Guirbo provided secretarial support
Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Ms. Silvia Sagari are respectively the Department Director and the Managing Division
Chief for the operation. Mr. Franpois Laporte is the Lead Economist.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
CREDfT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries:     The Government of Senegal and the private sector
Amount:           IDA Credit: SDR 27.6 million (US$ 40 million equivalent)
Terms:            IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program Description: The overall objective of the proposed credit is to support the structural
measures needed to derive the full benefits of the January 1994
devaluation. The credit will support a program of policy reforms which are
necessary for establishing an environment conducive to supply-response
and self-sustained growth of the private sector. The measures included in
the reform program are an essential part of the reforms agreed upon with
the Bank and the IMF in August 1994, in the context of the PFP for the
period 1994-1997. The reform program aims at: (i) completing the
liberalization of domestic and external trade by eliminating the monopolies
granted through special agreements and prior authorizations to import or
export; (ii) improving the existing export and investment incentive regimes;
(iii) reducing maritime transportation costs; and, (iv) eliminating rigidities
in the labor market.
Benefits:          The expected benefits of the credit would be to: (i) create an environment
favorable to private sector development that would result, in the short- to
medium-term  in economic growth through increased  exports and
investments; (ii) help the Government, through balance of payment
support, maintain appropriate macro-economic equilibria and keep inflation
under control; and, (iii) contribute to the improvement of living conditions
by eliminating policies that have been detrimental to the poor, mainly
through the abolition of monopolies, the completion of trade liberalization
and the reduction of the price of essential consumer goods.
Kiska:             Supply response from the private sector to the CFAF adjustment is already
in evidence in a number of activities and there is a high probability that
Senegal's expected economic performance would be achieved if the reforms
proposed under this operation are implemented. Such probability would be



ii
would be significantly lower in the absence of Bank support. Although
Senegal has been a reluctant adjuster in implementing previous Bank
supported adjustment programs, the likelihood of unsatisfactory
implementation and/or backtracking is reduced because: (i) as compared to
the past, the devaluation has made unnecessary many of the protection and
special benefits granted to selected enterprises; (ii) the Government's
commitment to reforms is much stronger as evidenced by the many difficult
measures taken during 1993 and 1994; and, (iii) the reform program to be
supported by the credit is heavily front-loaded and the program's most
important measures were implemented before Board presentation. The risk
of back-tracking is mitigated by the fact that the reform program supported
by the credit is the result of an intense debate which took place in Senegal
since the Fall of 1993 around the austerity measures proposed by the
Government.  Public opinion has been educated on the costs of
monopolies, and there is political pressure from a myriad of small economic
operators and consumers to put an end to such practices. The Government
is also committed to continue to widely explain the rational for reforms and
publicize their impact. Finally, the support envisaged to be delivered
through the Private Sector Capacity Building Project being prepared in
parallel to this operation should mitigate this risk that the private sector
mnight prove ill-equipped to respond as expected to an improved policy and
regulatory environment.
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Porty Catego:   Not Applicable
Aopraisal Report:   Not Applicable
Estimated
Disbursements:     - US$ 30 million equivalent would be disbursed upon credit effectiveness;
- USS 10 million equivalent would be disbursed upon satisfaction of the
conditions for release of the second tranche.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS PROGRAM
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum  and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 27.6 million, the equivalent of
US$ 40 million. The credit is to support the Government's structural adjustment efforts with
particular focus on the development of the private sector. The credit would be on standard IDA
terms, with a maturity of 40 years, in support of a Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness
program. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) accompanies this report.
2.    Senegal, along with the African members of the Franc Zone, devalued its currency in
January 1994, opening a window of opportunity to rekindle a long stagnant economy. The
devaluation has also eliminated a number of rent-creating distortions, thus altering significantly
the political economy of reform in Senegal. The Government is taking advantage of these
changes to resume structural adjustment after a long period of stop-and-go implementation. The
management of the immediate post-devaluation period and the behavior of the ministers in charge
of economic affairs over the past year have been characterized by a keen appreciation of the need
for reforms, strong efforts at consensus building, and a determination to re-establish the country's
credibility with its international partners.
3.    Immediately after the devaluation, Senegal was one of the first two CFA countries to
agree on a program for 1994 with the IRA and the Bank: it adopted specific actions to safeguard
the macro-economic equilibrium and control inflation in order to achieve a lasting real
depreciation. These measures were supported by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement and an IDA
Economic Recovery Credit, both approved in March 1994. The Stand-by arrangement was
converted into an ESAF in August 1994 after the IMF and the Bank approved a PFP covering the
period 1994-97. The proposed Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit would
support, along with an upcoming Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC), specific policy
and regulatory reforms agreed under the PFP, and aimed at alleviating constraints that still impede
the development of the private sector and a full supply response to the devaluation. It would
address, in particular, the issues of trade liberalization, special agreements, and labor market
liberalization which were not satisfactorily resolved in the past. The most important measures
supported by the proposed operation have already been implemented and measures which are
conditions of second tranche release are at an advanced stage of preparation.



2
PART L. THE MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS
4.    Background'. Since 1980, Senegal's adjustment efforts have been supported by four IDA
structural adjustment credits and two sector adjustment credits.  Overall, the country's
performance in implementing and sustaining reforms has been mnixed. Much progress has been
achieved in: (i) liberalizing the economic system; (ii) improving public resource management (e.g.,
public investment programming, public enterprise reform, external debt management); (iii)
restructuring the banking sector; and (iv) reforming monetary and credit policy. In other areas,
namely civil service reform, production incentives, and industrial and trade policies, important
reforms were implemented but later reversed (e.g., liberalization of external trade and civil service
reform) and other reforms were never implemented (e.g., deregulation of the labor market and
removal of special agreements with selected enterprises2).
5.    Senegal's economic performance in the 1980s has been uneven. Between 1984 and 1988,
real GDP grew at an average rate of 4.3% per annum, the fiscal balance continued to improve,
falling from a deficit of 5.8% to 2.5% of GDP. These achievements, however, were not
sustained. The large real depreciation achieved by many competitor countries and trade partners
since 1985-86, combined with negative terms of trade shocks, led to an increasing overvaluation
of Senegal's real exchange rate, making it more difficult to sustain the reform process. In
addition, the government became increasingly preoccupied by domestic political concerns, while
high levels of aid (more than twice the Sub-Saharan average in 1989) allowed the authorities to
postpone necessary adjustments. A serious decline in key sectors after 1988 resulted in low
overall real GDP growth during the 1988-1993 period (1.7% per annum). Faced with a
deteriorating macroeconomic environment, Senegal renewed its adjustments efforts under SAL
IV, approved in 1990. The results, as reported in the Project Completion Report of SAL IV,
were disappointing. Some progress was made in the privatization of public enterprises and in the
simplification of the tax structure. However, efforts to introduce more flexibility in labor
legislation, to reduce non-labor input costs, and to reduce the civil service wage bill met limited
success or failed. Senegal's external debt ratios remained high although falling slightly over this
period. Total external debt declined from 73% of GDP in 1986 to 57.5% in 1992. As a
percentage of exports of goods and services, total debt service fell from 22% to 20.6% over the
same period.
6.    Recent developments. In 1992 and 1993, Senegal's economy deteriorated even further
and was mired in a low-level equilibrium characterized by a sustained recession and underutilized
capacity. The difficulties of pursuing an adjustment strategy based on internal deflationary
policies became more acute, and the economic reformn program went off-track in 1992. Senegal
was unable to obtain a fourth year ESAF, and SAL IV was closed without the third tranche being
disbursed. The fiscal and balance of payment positions worsened, with the fiscal balance
A comprehensive analysis of Senegal's performance and of the current situation can befound in the County Assistance
Strategy which accompanies this report.
2 These special agreements provide companies with tax breaks and, in some cases, a monopoly to import and
produce a particular commodity. This is the case, inter alia for sugar CSS) and cement (SOCOCew4).



3
(excluding grants) changing from a 0.2% surplus in 1991 to a 3.9% deficit in 1993 and the
current account deficit rising (excluding transfers) from 8.7% of GDP to 9.9% over the same
period. Substantial domestic and external arrears accumulated and foreign reserves declined
sharply. Output shrank in key sectors such as fishing, phosphates, groundnuts, and food
processing, and GDP registered an increase of only 0.8% in 1991, 2.9% in 1992, and declined by
an estimated 2% in 1993. The inability of firms to compete implied a shrinking tax base which led
the Government to increase its reliance on exceptional revenue measures (e.g., heavy taxation of
petroleum products) and on last-minute juggling and ad hoc measures (e.g., payment of tax
arrears by certain enterprises in return for offsetting payments of non-budgeted export subsidies).
Investment levels at current prices remained low at 14.1% of GDP in 1993, and gross domestic
savings declined from 7.9% of GDP in 1991 to 7.4% in 1993. To halt this deterioration, the GOS
adopted in August 1993 a more rigorous series of internal adjustment measures, including cuts in
public sector wages and an increase in import duties and taxes applied to petroleum products.
These measures contributed to containing the budget deficit at 3.9% of GDP and the current
account deficit at 9.8%  of GDP.  They were not sufficient, however, to restore the
competitiveness of the economy and its growth prospects.
7.   The extent of the appreciation of the real exchange rate, coupled with the Government's
problems in removing structural rigidities in the economy, made it increasingly difficult for
Senegal to restore competitiveness through internal adjustment alone. The decline of investments
and exports, widespread smuggling and customs fraud, and increasing macro-economic
imbalances made the January 1994 devaluation of the CFAF inevitable. To restore sustainable
long-term economic growth, the Government realizes, however, that the devaluation must be
accompanied by additional policy and structural reforms in support of the development of the
private sector. Consequently, the GOS has outlined a medium-term strategy to promote private
sector activities, the key elements of which are the provision of a stable macro-economic
environment and policy and institutional reforms favorable to sustained economic growth.
8.    The GOS set out the macro-economic objectives of its strategy for the 1994-1997 period
in the Statement of Economic and Social Policies submitted to IDA in March 1994 and detailed
them further in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) of August 1994. These objectives, for which
financial performance criteria and benchmarks were agreed on with the GOS, are: (i) a GDP
growth rate of 4.7% in 1995; (ii) a return to low inflation after an initial adjustment in prices in
response to the devaluation, with the inflation rate projected to decrease from an estimated 39%
in 1994 to 8% in 1995 and 2.5% thereafter; (iii) a reduction of the current account deficit from
9.8% of GDP in 1994 to 7.3% in 1996; and (iv) a reduction of the budget deficit from 4.5% of
GDP in 1994 to 1.7% by 1996. The main thrust of the government strategy consists of rekindling
the adjustment process, particularly by implementing long-delayed reforms in external trade, labor
market and in the agricultural sector. This strategy also includes a program of measures to
improve public sector management: (i) the adoption of a public investment program, taking into
account the devaluation of the CFAF that would be periodically updated over a three year period;
(ii) the reduction of the wage bill through an audit of the civil service, whose recommendations
would be implemented during 1995-1996; and (iii) the pursuit of the Government divestiture
program by privatizing 12 of the 40 remaining public enterprises over the period covered by the
PFP, three of which before the end of June 1995.



4
9.    Immediately after the devaluation, as a first step, the GOS: (i) established a maximum 45%
limit to import tariffs, including the 5% stamp duty; (ii) reduced the number of VAT rates from
five to three, with a maximum rate of 20%; (iii) increased energy and utility prices to reflect more
closely current economic cost of production; and (iv) decided to pass-through the benefits of the
devaluation to agricultural producers. The GOS also announced its determination to accelerate
the structural reforms necessary to bolster the supply-response through policy reform programs to
be supported by two separate but complementary Bank-financed operations: the proposed Private
Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit (PSAC) and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit. The reform program to be implemented under the PSAC aims at: (i) completing the
liberalization of domestic and external trade; (ii) improving the export and investment incentive
regimes; (iii) reducing maritime transportation costs; and (iv) eliminating rigidities in the labor
market.
10.  In 1994, inflation remained below the 40% target resulting in a real depreciation of over
30% in foreign currency terms sufficient to permit renewed economic growth provided that the
accompanying structural reforms are implemented. Some signs now point out to an economic
recovery. Available data on a comparison between January-June 1993 and the same period in
1994 indicate that industrial power consumption has grown by about 8% and increases in
production of industrial products range from 14 to 32%. In the meantime, tourists arrivals have
increased by 30% and exports in volume of fish and phosphates have increased by 17% and 30%
respectively while imports declined by 11% in real terms.
11.   Financing requirements. As shown in the folowing table, external financing requirements,
before adjustment support and debt relief are estimated at US$ 247 million for the 1995-96
period. These requirements wiLl be met by projected adjustment support of US$ 217 million and
debt relief of US$ 8 million. The need for exceptional balance of payments support is projected
in the PFP to be eLiminated after 1997 when the remaining balance of payments and fiscal gap will
be met by debt relief alone.
Senegal Financing Plan
(USS Millions)
1995        1996   IQTol
External Fin. Requirements  145     102     247
Debt ReLief               -1          9        8
Exceptional Financing    136         81     217
Residual Financing Gap    10         12      22
Source: IMF and SPA documents



S
PART IL THE PRIVATE SECTOR
A.   PRIVATE SECTOR'S ROLE IN THE ECONOMY
12.   Overview. Senegal's private sector dominates the economy in terms of contribution to
GDP, employment, and investment. According to the Bank 1993 Private Sector Assessment, the
share of the private sector in the country's GDP was estimated at about 82% and amounted to
almost 1000/% of value added in the primary sector, 80% in the secondawy sector, and 77% in the
tertiary sector. Private sector activities are very important in both the rural and informal sectors,
employing about 90% of the country's labor force; the modem private sector, however, employs
only 2% of the labor force.
13.   In agriculture, productive activities are carried out primarily by small private family farms.
In contrast to most African countries, their output accounts for a modest 20% share of GDP.
Agriculture, however, employs 60% of the country's labor force and provides a living to about
two-thirds of the population. In the secondary sector, informal entrepreneurs are very active and
operate micro-enterprises, producing metal products, wooden furniture, textiles, leather, and
garments. In the tertiary sector, their contribution in the areas of trade and transportation is also
substantial. As a response to a complex and restrictive web of policies and regulations, and to the
stagnation of the modem sector, the informal sector has expanded over the recent years.
Employment in the informal sector is estimated to have increased on average 3% per year in the
1980s while it decreased in the modem sector.
14.   The Modem Private Sector. The modem private sector, which contributed about 26% of
the country's GDP in 1987, is dominated by large enterprises with substantial foreign ownership.
In 1988, this sector was estimated to include about 1000 enterprises, of which 264 were in
industry, 69 in construction and public works, and 667 in services, including hotels and tourism.
In the secondary sector, private enterprise activities are concentrated in food processing and
tobacco (about 74% of industrial output); chemicals (about 11%); construction material (about
3%); and textile, garment, and leather (about 12%). In the service sector, private enterprises
operate mostly in commerce, transport and tourism. The tourism sector has succeeded in
attracting private investors and contributed roughly 11% of total exports earnings in 1990.
15.   The modem  private sector has never become very efficient.  In addition to the
overvaluation of the CFAF and to excessive protection, the private sector assessment identified
four main constraints to the development of the private sector: (i) market rigidities resulting from
an inward-looking and monopolistic economic structure; (ii) high cost of inputs and
transportation; (iii) labor market rigidities; and (iv) ineffective incentive and legal frameworks,
coupled with weak institutional support. Most private enterprises operate at sub-optimal levels of
capacity utilization, have high levels of operating costs, and do not contribute to job creation. In



6
the late 1980s, enterprises operating in the textiles, garments, leather, wood, paper, and
construction sub-sectors were reported to experience a decline in the level of permanent
employment. As a result, total employmnent in the modem manufacturing sector is estimated to
have fallen from about 41,500 in the mid 1980s to about 38,000 in 1990.
16.  Public/private sector interface. At the beginning of 1987, there were 87 public enterprises
(PE's) in Senegal. Because of their overall poor performance and adverse impact on public
finance and on the economy in general3, the GOS initiated in 1987 a public enterprise reform
program, including reform of the institutional framework of PEs, restructuring and privatization.
Since the inception of this program, government divestiture has been practically completed in the
financial sector where only the agricultural bank which receives assistance from several external
donors remains owned in majority by the government. With regard to non financial public
enterprises, 26 have been privatized, 21 liquidated and 404 remain under government control.
Although only 13 of the remaining public enterprises have commercial or industrial activities, PEs
still play a substantial role in strategic sectors and have a monopoly in water, power supply, and in
processing and marketing of agricultural products such as rice, groundnuts and cotton. Their role
is also preponderant in the mining, transportation and communication sectors, and significant in
commerce, manufacturing, and tourism. In 1993, the PE sector accounted for 1/3 of total
domestic credit and held 1/3 of the external total public debt.
17.   The privatization and restructuring program aimed at lessening the importance of the
public sector and eliminating money-losing enterprises is still being pursued. Under the PFP for
the 1994-1997, 12 enterprises are earmarked for privatization, of which three before June 1995.
Other Bank-supported sectoral operations address the privatization/restructuring of the related
public enterprises. Ongoing and upcoming projects include the restructuring and privatization of
the management (and possibly assets) of water company (SONEES). The Transport SECAL
aims, in particular, at strengthening the railroad (SNCS) and at privatizing or liquidating the
airline company (SONATRA). The GOS has also requested Bank's assistance to address the
problems of the power company (SENELEC) in the context of an upcoming energy sector
project.
18.   PEs Performance and Budgetary Impact. In terms of performance, in 1993, six of the 13
largest PEs reported profits and seven reported losses. The information available for four of the
money-losing enterprises (SENELEC -- power company, SOTRAC  - urban transportation,
CSPT - phosphates and Dakar Marine -- shipyard), shows 1993 losses totaling about CFAF 8.5
billion (about US$ 29 million, or 0.5% of GDP), 4.3 billion of which due to SENELEC, 3.0 to
SOTRAC and 1.0 to Dakar Marine. In 1994, the combined losses of SENELEC, SOTRAC and
CSPT are projected to decline slightly to CFAF 4 billion. No reliable information is available on
the magnitude of the losses of the four others.
3   In 1998189, the budgetary burden of PEs was estimated at 6% offiscal revenues and 75% of the budget deficit,
while 41% of bank credit benefited the public enterprise sector.
4   Of these, the 13 largest include utilities and transport companies, agro-industries and an enterprise producing
fertilizers. The remaining are research institutions, hotels, real estate and other service ventures.



7
19.   Although there is no direct subsidy from the budget to PEs, the full impact of their
performance on the overall public budget cannot be accurately assessed . Since SAL IV, Senegal
has eliminated all direct operational subsidies to commercial and industrial PEs while drastically
reducing those given others (research and training institutes, etc.). The only exception made right
after the devaluation was to earmark in the 1994 budget - with Bank and IMF agreement -CFAF
10 billion under the social safety net to compensate the groundnut oil company (SONACOS) and
the rice stabilization fund (CPSP) for the limits on price increases of edible oil and imported rice
placed for social reasons as part of the post-devaluation package. This, in fact, is a subsidy to
Senegalese consumers. A detailed analysis of the impact of the parastatal sector's financial
performance on the overall public budget cannot be carried out because a consolidated budget of
the public sector including the PE sector is presently not available. In particular, data on possible
implicit subsidies - in the form, for instance, of funds on-lent with preferential interest rates, loan
guarantees, assumption by the Government of foreign exchange risks of PE-related transactions
and foreign liabilities - are not available at this time. However, this issue will be addressed in the
context of the Private Sector Capacity Building operation presently under preparation.
B.    STRATEGY FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
20.   Government strategy. With the recent devaluation, Senegal has a unique opportunity to
restore competitiveness and exploit the country's potential to expand production in fishing, light
manufacturing, horticulture and agriculture, and services, essentially in tourism. The GOS
realizes, however, that the devaluation alone will not generate a sufficient supply-response of the
private sector, particularly in terms of new investment and exports. It has prepared, therefore, an
overall medium-term adjustment strategy to be carried out over the period 1994-1997 whose main
components were described above (para. 8).  As part of this medium-term  strategy the
Government adopted a program for the development of the private sector whose content results
from a consensus achieved with representatives of the private sector during a Competitiveness
Seminar organized days after the devaluation in January 1994 and during discussions carried out
within the Competitiveness Review Group (CRG) - which includes representatives of the private
sector, of the labor unions and of the Government - established in February 1994. This program
outlined in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policies supporting the Economic
Recovery Credit is based on the following components: (i) strengthening of domestic competition
and improvement of competitiveness; (ii) rationalization of direct and indirect taxation, including
that of imported goods; (iii) promotion of export activities; (iv) improvement of the regulatory
and legal frameworks; (v) amelioration of the functioning of the labor market; (vi) alignment of
factor prices to their economic costs; and (vii) strengthening of the institutional support for the
private sector.
21.   Throughout project preparation, Bank missions worked in close collaboration with the
CRG, which formed five commissions comprised of concerned government officials,
representatives of private professional associations and labor unions to analyze and propose
adequate measures in the following areas: (i) domestic competition and monopolies; (ii) export
promotion; (iii) investment promotion; (iv) reduction of transport costs; and (v) labor regulations



8
and cost. Each commission produced a memorandum including specific measures that could be
implemented in 19945 and others whose preparation would require additional studies to be carried
out in due course by the CRG. The commissions' recommendations constitute the basis of the
policy reform  program  to be supported by the proposed credit.  This program  has been
extensively discussed by the GOS with the private sector during the Journees de concertation
nationale held in Dakar from July 22 to July 24, 1994 and the GOS is determined to continue its
program of wide information/discussion on the adjustment process.
22.   Bank's strategy and Rationale for IDA's involvement.  As described in the Country
Assistance Strategy which accompanies this operation, the main objective of the Bank is to help
Senegal achieve sustainable growth with equity and targeted poverty reduction. While in the
short-term agriculture is the sector where the supply-response is most likely to occur first, exports
from the private sector should be the main source of growth in the long term. With the
devaluation of the CFAF, the most important impediment to competitiveness has been removed.
The proposed credit constitutes, along with the upcoming ASAC, an imnportant element of IDA's
strategy to help the GOS improve the policy environment for private sector development. It is an
essential element of the government's adjustment program that is being adopted in the context of
the PFP to create, and maintain, a business environment conducive to private investment. A
Private Sector Capacity Building project is being prepared in parallel to this credit to help the
private sector rapidly take advantage of a new policy environment favorable to a sustained
development. This project, expected to be presented to IDA's Board in FY96, will specifically
aim at: (i) strengthening, through the CRG, the dialogue between the government and the private
sector on specific measures needed to further private sector activities; (ii) providing on a demand-
driven and matching grant basis, missing skills to private entrepreneurs; (iii) identifying and
implementing measures to strengthen the legal framework of the private sector; and, (iv) assisting
the government in implementing its divestiture program.
23.   Lessons learned. As mentioned earlier, Senegal's performance under the last adjustment
operation (SAL IV) supported by the Bank was not satisfactory the third tranche was canceled.
A Bank analysis of the implementation of past adjustment programs indicates that two major
factors are responsible for their relative lack of success. Firstly, in the past, the availability of
quick-disbursing budgetary assistance has had the undesirable effect of focusing government
attention primarily on the accessibility of such funds, often to the detriment of long-term
development issues. Consequently, the government's ownership of the reform programs might
have been overestimated. Secondly, although the design of the previous adjustment programs
improved over time, the implementation of the reforms had some serious sequencing
shortcomings because of the difficulty in implementing key measures. For example, liberalizing
extemal trade before eliminating the constraints to enterprise competitiveness (e.g., exchange rate,
labor rigidities, high cost of production) was not sustainable.
5 The measures were selected because they were significant and could be implemented quickly, bolstering the
immediate impact of the devaluation. Reforms with a longer lead timefor preparing. or whose success depends
on growth resumption (fnalizing PE refonrs, reducing the size and improving the performance of the civil
service, etc.) were not included under the proposed PSAC and will be picked up under future operations
provided that the PSAC and ASAC are successful.



9
24.   The design of the proposed credit takes into account the lessons learned from past
adjustment operations in Senegal. Firstly, particular attention has been given to the ownership
issue. During preparation and appraisal, efforts were made to associate representatives of the
private sector and of the GOS, through extensive discussions within the Competitiveness Review
Group. Broad consultations resulted in a consensus on the content and sequencing of the policy
reform program to be implemented under the proposed credit. In other words, with the exception
of representatives of the CNPS -- which regroups entrepreneurs of the modem sector who benefit
the most from special agreements - there is a domestic constituency supporting the reforms and
pushing for their implementation. In addition, since the devaluation of the CFA, opposition of
interest groups to these reforms has become economically less justifiable. Secondly, the reform
program is front-loaded and most of its measures were implemented before Board Presentation.
Thirdly, the reforms proposed to be carried out under the credit will be taking place after an
important adjustment of the real exchange rate. This has been a major obstacle whose removal
should improve the private sector competitiveness and bring the objectives of the program within
easier reach. Fourthly, the policy package supported by the proposed credit gives priority to
establishing a sound business environment that would enable the private sector to take advantage
of the new exchange rate, thus facilitating a rapid supply-response, especiaDly in the export
sector. FinaDly, attention has been given to the identification of well-focused conditions with
precise implementation criteria that should avoid differences of interpretation.
25.   Status of Bank Group Operations. As of June 30, 1994, the Bank Group had approved
102 operations for total commitments of about US$ 1.3 billion consisting of 70 IDA credits, 20
Bank loans, and 12 IFC operations (Annex VI). To date, 57 IDA credits and the 20 IBRD loans
have been fully disbursed.   Of the remaining, one (Transport SECAL) is a hybrid
adjustment/mvestment operation. The rest are divided between agriculture (four), infrastructure
(two), human resources development (three), industry (one), and a technical assistance project.
Since the devaluation, an Economic Recovery Credit has been approved in March 1994. Among
the operations supported by IFC, three were in the financial sector, four in industry, one in
services, two in agriculture, and two in fish processing. IFC's current loan and equity investment
portfolio is composed of five operations: ICS (phosphoric acid and fertilizers), which was
restructured in 1987 and whose financial position is now improved; African Seafood (fish
processing), which is in receivership; Africamer (fish processing), which is facing cash flow
problems; a leasing company; and an agribusiness project. These projects did not perform well
because of a combination of external and policy problems, particularly high factor costs and low
international prices, aggravated by the overvalued exchange rate. The performance of these
projects is expected to improve after the devaluation and the improvement of the environment for
private sector activities.
26.   Status of IMF-Senegal Relations. As of June 30, 1994, Senegal's outstanding use of Fund
resources amounted to the equivalent of SDR 199.6 million (167.9% of quota). If the full amount
under the ESAF arrangements were drawn, Senegal's use of Funds resources, taking into account
scheduled repurchases and repayments, would increase to SDR 241.2 million (202.9% of quota)
by end-June 1997 (Annex VII).



10
PART Ill THE PROPOSED CREDIT
27.   Objectives. The overall objective of the proposed credit is to support policy measures that
stimulate the supply-response of the private sector to the January 1994 parity change. To achieve
this objective, the credit supports the implementation of the Government's program of policy
reforms towards the development of the private sector described in the Letter of Sector
Development Policy agreed upon during negotiations (Annex  ). Detailed measures included in
the reform program, which constitute a complement to the adjustment measures that are being
implemented in the context of the PFP, are in the policy matrix attached in Annex . The reforns
to be supported by the credit that were envisaged but not implemented in previous adjustment
programs have been made before Board presentation. The reform program to be implemented
under the proposed credit aims at: (i) completing the liberalization of domestic and external trade;
(ii) improving the export and investment incentive regimes; (iii) reducing maritime transportation
costs; and (iv) eliminating rigidities in the labor market. Its content is described in the following
paragraphs.
A.    TBE POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
1.     The Promotion of Competition in Domestic and External Trade
28.   Present situation and recent developments. Despite progress towards liberalization in
recent years, competition is still handicapped by administered prices in the domestic market, and
quantitative restrictions imposed on external trade. These constraints result from past policies
aimed at making the supply of essential goods affordable to the general public and providing
protection to de facto monopolies granted to public and private enterprises6 through "special
agreements" (Conventions Speciales or Protocoles d'Accord). As a result, despite the elimination
in 1987-1988 of a complex price control system that affected more than 200 products, in 1994 the
price of 24 products7 --estimated to represent about 12% of GDP and 40% of the CPI- was still
being administratively determined. In the area of trade liberalization, the reforms implemented to
open the economy in the context of SAL m  were reversed in mid-89. The reversal was basically
caused by two facts: (i) the decline of industrial activity due to competition from imports in face
of an overvalued exchange rate, and (ii) a drop of fiscal revenues that could threaten the country's
macro-economic equilibrium. As a result, import tariffs were increased and the use of reference
prices reintroduced. In 1994, imports of 18 products were still subject to quantitative restrictions
6 The enterprises benefitingfrom Conventions Speciales are CSS (sugar), SONACOS (edible oil), SAR (petroleum
products), ICS (fertilizers), GMD and MOULINS SENTENAC (wheatflour), SOCOCIM (cement), ICOTAF and
SOTEXKA (textiles), SODFITEX= (cotton), and SOCOSAC (packing bags).
7   These products are sugar, rice, cotton, groundnuts, vegetable oil, tomatoes and tomato paste, wheatflour and
bread, pharmaceutical drugs, health care services, imported milk, imported instant coffee, soap, bottled gas,
charcoal, soft drinks, cement, reinforced steel bars, petroleum products, urban transportation, and utilities
(water, electricity and telephone).



11
through Autorisations prealables (APs or prior authorizations).  With regard to Special
Agreements, a review carried out under SAL II showed that, in addition to introducing distortions
in the incentive system, they resulted in substantial foregone revenue for the government -
estimated for the four most important beneficiary firms at about CFAF 17 billion/year on average,
over the period 1979-1986, or about 7.7% of the 1993 tax receipts.
29.   Special agreements have also had an adverse effect on poor consumers.  Monopoly
arrangements which have increased prices govern basic consumption goods such as tomato paste,
wheat flour, vegetable oil and sugar while fuel gas, consumed essentially by the non-poor, was
subsidized. A recent report revealed that if one includes only major consumption items,
inefficiencies from monopolies, trade restrictions, and tariffs cost Senegalese consumers between
12,000 and 14,000 CFAF per capita or 2.5 to 3 times as much as spent on health per capita or
47% of the average expenditure of a poor person.
30.   Immediately after the devaluation, the GOS took a first step towards correcting price and
tariff distortions by raising all administered prices by 20 to 35% to align them with their real
economic level. At the same time, the GOS decreased tariffs on all imported goods and limited
them to a maximum of 45%8 (not including a stamp duty of 5%). Rough estimates of the average
effective rate of protection (ERP) indicate that it was reduced by about 50% when a value added
of 30%  is assumed.  Although the level of nominal protection is still relatively high by
international standards, it was not possible for Senegal to further reduce it because Government's
revenues are highly dependent on trade-related taxes (about 50% of total revenues in 1993). The
current tariff structure is, however, temporary, pending the harmonization of Senegal's tariff
system with those of the other member countries of the West African Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU). The common tariff structure expected to be implemented in 1996 will include
three tariff categories of about 5% for essential goods, 20% for intermediate and capital goods,
and 30% for consumer goods.
31.   In order to ensure that fair competition among a limited number of existing suppliers will
be preserved, the GOS has created a Competition Commission whose mandate would be to assess
situations of anti-competitive behavior and to propose appropriate measures to correct them. In
August 1994, a law establishing this Commission and provisions relating to free competition in
Senegal was adopted by the National Assembly. An application decree satisfactory to IDA
specifying the conditions under which price controls are allowed was adopted in January 1995.
The decree establishes the criteria that will be applied to define categories of products whose
price could be controlled (e.g., non-contestable monopolies).  The decree also limits price
controls to the list of 11 products whose prices remain administered (agreed in the PFP, para. 32
(a) below) and indicates that this list will be reviewed periodically to eliminate the products whose
prices can be freed.
32.   Reforms supported by the credit. As stated in the Policy Framework Paper, the GOS is
committed to eliminating the remaining barriers to free domestic and import trade and to creating
8   The tariff on intermediate goods and equipment did not change; however, the drop in the tariff on consumer
goods was substantial:from 61% and 44% to 45% and 35%for consumer goods that are locally produced and
for the other goods, respectively.



12
an environment conducive to increased competition. The current impediments take three principal
forms: (i) price controls; (ii) non-tariff barriers on imports; and, (iii) special agreements which
grant selected enterprises specific tax, price or import advantages. Reforms will address those
three areas:
(a) Price controls. In the context of the PFP, the GOS decided to let the price of aDl
products be determined by market forces, except for eleven goods and services9 deemed
essential and representing only about 3%  of GDP.   For several products, price
liberalization had to be concomitant with the elimination of the prior authorization to
import them. The price of six products -soap, miDc, coffee, soft drinks, reinforced iron
bars and yeast- was decontroDed in August 1994 and those of cement, localy produced
cooking oil (excluding localy produced peanut oil), tomato paste and fresh tomatoes, in
January 1995. The price of wheat flour is scheduled to be liberalized in November 1995.
In the context of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, presently under preparation,
the GOS is committed to freeing the price of peanut oil in early 1995 and that of rice in
June 1995. In addition, targets will be set for reducing the real domestic consumer prices
of sugar over a period of three years. Finally, the producer prices of cotton and
groundnuts will be determined as a floor price by a committee including farmers and
marketing agencies.  This measure, already in effect for cotton, will be extended to
groundnuts at the beginning of the 1994/95 harvest period. Most of the eleven prices that
would remain administered relate to goods and services that are either supplied by
monopolies (e.g., electricity, water, telephone) or controled on social grounds (e.g.,
pharmaceuticals products). Nevertheless, pricing of water and transportation wil be
reviewed in the context of the ongoing Water Supply Project and Transport SECAL, both
supported by the Bank and aiming at restructuring/privatizing the public enterprises
supplying these services. The prices of petroleum products and electricity are expected to
be addressed by an upcoming Energy Sector Project to be supported by the Bank and
other donors.
(b) Non-Tariff barriers. The GOS has also agreed to a complete liberalization of imports,
except for gold and silver bars', and second-hand clothing for health reasons.
Consequently, of the 18 APs presently in effect, which concern goods estimated to
represent about 6% of GDP, seven were abolished in August 199411 and four others'2 in
October and November 1994. The authorization to import another product (wheat flour)
will be lifted in 1995 when the notice period legally required to temiinate the related
9   These goods and services are: bread, locally produced phannaceutical drugs and health services, butane gas
and charcoal (for environmental reasons), petroleum products, urban trnsportation, transport services,
electricity water and telephone.
10  This isjjustifled by the existing monetary controlsfor silver and gold bars.
11  They concern: cereals comparable to those locally produced (buckwheat, mil, sorghum etc..), gold and jewelry,
magazinea and periodicals, kola nuts, mineral and chemical fertilizers. jute packing bags, and pre-recorded
tapes.
12  They concern: tomato paste, cement, vegetable oil and polypropylene packing bags.



13
special agreement expires. The four remaining APs13 which concern agricultural products
will be eliminated in the context of the ASAC. To rationalize the administration of
imports, the GOS decided to rely exclusively on an appropriate tariff structure. To this
end, following a decision adopted in June 1994, it abandoned, at the beginning of January
1995, the valuation system of imports based on reference prices (valeurs mercuriales). In
applying the Antidumping Law adopted in August 1994, the Government has decided to
use only tariff surcharges to sanction dumping practices.  Commenting on a draft
application decree of the law submitted for review, IDA indicated that the provisions of
the decree should clearly establish that dumping practices would be: (i) investigated by a
commission including among its members representatives of consumers and importers; (ii)
identified by a process fully compatible with GATT dispositions; and, (iii) sanctioned by
temporary tariff surcharges. A decree satisfactory to IDA was enacted in January 1995.
In addition, as mentioned in the Letter of Sector Development Policy, the GOS is
committed to review annually, in consultation with IDA, the situation of the price and
trade regimes, including the implementation of antidumping actions, with the purpose of
assessing progress towards liberalization and of assuring a reasonable degree of
competition, in particular, with imports.
(c) Special agreements. As mentioned earlier, a key factor for restoring a climate of free
competition was the elimination of all existing special agreements. Some of these
agreements provided advantages for a period of time extending beyond the year 2000.
However, realizing that the recent devaluation might have restored the competitiveness of
the concerned enterprises, the GOS undertook, in August 1994, to review with their
beneficiaries all the existing Conventions Speciales or Protocoles d'Accord. This review
concerned the compliance of the enterprises with the agreements provisions, the impact of
the devaluation on their competitiveness, and the assessment of the forgone fiscal revenues
resulting from the benefits included in these agreements. The review aimed specifically at:
(i) assessing whether the enterprises still need protection and/or fiscal benefits; (ii)
terminating the agreements whose existence is no longer justified either because of the
adjustment of the CFAF exchange rate or because of gross violation of the agreement
dispositions; and (iii) preparing for those enterprises which are still not competitive, a
gradual reduction of the advantages granted to them and a replacement of protection
through quantitative restriction by a temporary and decreasing tariff surcharge with a view
to eliminating protection over time. As a result of this review, in November 1994. the
Goverment signed with the beneficiaries of Conventions Speciales or Protocoles
d'Accord, protocols terminating the agreements granted to SOCOCIM (cement), ICS
(fertilizers), SOTEXKA and ICOTAF (Textiles), SIPS (packaging), SODEFITEX
(cotton), GMD and SENTENAC (wheat flour), SNTI and SOCAS (tomato paste), and
SOCOSAC (packing bags). All benefits were also terminated with the exception of tariff
exemptions granted to ICS and SODEFITEX (essentially two exporting companies) for
the importation of their inputs. Temporary tariff surcharges, decreasing over three years,
are applied to three products only (tomato paste, wheat flour and polypropylene bags) in
13  These products are: sugar, rice, onions, bananas, potatoes and seed potatoes.



14
order to allow time to local producers to face foreign competition'4. The only special
agreements to remain in effect would be that of CSS (sugar), that the Government is
committed to eliminate in early 1995 in the context of the ASAC, and of SAR (petroleum
products) which will be addressed in the context of an energy sector project for which the
GOS has requested the Bank's assistance.
2.    The Promotion of Exports
33.   Present situation and recent developments. Senegal's main exports are agricultural or
agro-processed products (cotton and peanut oil) and phosphate. The recent devaluation has
boosted exports of fish products, tourism, and could trigger an expansion of exports of
manufactured and horticultural goods. However, some remaining constraints could handicap the
increase of Senegal's exports. In 1994, exports of seven categories of products (cereals,
confectionery and oil groundnuts, sugar, tomato products, jeweLry and precious metals, and
minerals) were still subject to prior authorizations (APs) while administrative obstacles affected all
exports. The administration of the temporary import and duty drawback systems, which were
established to promote export activities, has been discouraging to exporters.  Budgetary
constraints and cumbersome administrative procedures result in long delays in recovering custom
duties already paid to the Government and in getting customs clearance.
34.   To encourage exports, the Government established a Free Trade Zone (FTZ) in 1974. A
duty draw-back and export subsidy scheme were introduced under SAL I and rationalized under
SAL II. Finally, in the context of SAL IV, in 1991, the administration of the FTZ was improved
while its legislation was extended to "points francs" (Single Factory Zone or SFZ) to provide
incentives to more potential exporters. These incentives have failed, however, to increase exports
substantially. Since 1974 only 12 enterprises have been established under the FTZ regime
although the benefits granted are very generous as compared to common international practice.
The reasons for this low response can be attributed to the overvalued exchange rate and the
cumbersome administrative procedures for receiving agreements and operating in the zone. The
SFZ regime has effectively been suspended since late 1992, due to concerns over customs
supervision of dispersed SFZs and to the reluctance to grant benefits that are now judged to be
too generous and costly in terms of forgone government revenues. To encourage exporters and
stimulate exports, the GOS decided to include in its 1994 budget the repayment of about 70% of
internal arrears, including those related to drawbacks, with a view to eliminating such arrears
totally in 1995. The tax applying to exports of phosphates and groundnuts was suspended for
1994. Finally, with regard to the FTZ/SFZ regimes, the Government decided, during a seminar
held in March 1994, to immediately establish a special committee to address the complaints of the
beneficiaries about FTZ/SFZ administration.
35.   Measures supported by the credit. In order to relieve exports from the above mentioned
constraints, the GOS decided, as a first step, to abolish all prior authorizations to export except
for precious metals. Prior authorization to export cereals, confectionery groundnuts, fresh
14 The tariff surcharges are 1 0%for wheatrflour, and 20%for tomato paste and polypropylene bags.



15
tomatoes and jewelry was elimninated in August 1994 and that of tomato paste, in November
1994. Exports of sugar and groundnuts for oil production will be freed in the context of the
ASAC. To further facilitate exports, in June 1994 the GOS authorized exporters to import, duty
free, packaging materials needed to export their goods. In addition, it eliminated the fee that the
Conseil Senegalais des Chargeurs (COSEQC)5 levies on all exports and on imports of inputs
needed for the production of goods to be exported. Furthermore, the GOS will: (i) adopt a
revised Free Trade Zone regime that would align its benefits to those generally granted in other
developing countries and whose agreement procedures would be simple, automatic and
transparent; (ii) enact simplified procedures for temporary imports of inputs entering the
production of goods to be exported (Regimes douaniers suspensifs); and (iii) simplify export
procedures to reduce administrative delays and costs. The implementation of the two first
measures is a condition of second tranche release. The third measure is expected to be
implemented by June 1995 when a review of the current procedures in the port and airport of
Dakar is completed.
3.    Investment incentive system
36.   Present situation.  The failure in recent years to attract significant investments, in
particular from foreign entrepreneurs, is a result of several factors, including Senegal's low
competitiveness prior to the devaluation of the CFAF and procedural barriers. Entrepreneurs
need prior approval by technical ministries to enter into more than 50 professions and the
establishment of new enterprises is subject to lengthy and costly registration procedures. In
addition, although the Government offers investment incentives through three principal schemes -
the Investment Code, the Industrial Estates Law and the Tax Code- the disparity of their
benefits, as well as their restrictive application and cumbersome administration, discourage
investment and job creation by the private sector. While the benefits of the Investment Code can
apply to investments in a wide range of eligible economic sectors, those of the Industrial Estates
Law are restricted to small- and medium-scale investments by Senegalese nationals while the Tax
Code applies only to re-invested profits, excluding new investments. In addition, all these
schemes are administered in a discretionary and cumbersome manner through detailed application,
screening and monitoring procedures, which usually lead to disputes and delays.
37.   Reforms supported by the credit. The GOS recognized the need for rationalizing and
consolidating all the investment incentives schemes into a simpler, unified and transparent
framework while streamlining the procedures required to establish new enterprises. To achieve
this objective, it decided to consolidate and rationalize all existing incentive schemes on the basis
of the recommendations of a study carried out by FIAS. The finalization by the GOS of an action
plan acceptable to IDA which will emphasize, inter alia, further rationalization of business taxes, is
a condition of second tranche release: The GOS has also agreed to include the implementation of
this plan in the program of measures to be executed in the context of the 1994-1997 PFP. The
Government also undertook a number of measures to facilitate the establishment of new
businesses. In August 1994. it proposed to the National Assembly a new Law, which was
subsequently adopted, limiting the list of professions requiring prior authorization by government
15 COSEC is a Government institution in charge of representing importers and exporters interests vis-d-vis sea carriers.



16
agencies, in particular, to those whose exercise can affect public welfare. The entry to all other
professions will be free. The new list'6 of professions requiring prior authorization was discussed
and agreed during project preparation. The adoption of a decree reflecting this agreement is a
condition of second tranche release. In July 1994, the National Assembly also approved a law
authorizing the Government to sell public land either to existing enterprises or to entrepreneurs
establishing new ones. The implementation decree of this law is expected to be issued in February
1995. Finally, in late 1994, the GOS implemented another measure intended to facilitate the
establishment of new enterprises, especially of SMEs, by reducing the level of taxes applied to
their creation.
4.     Enterprise Competitiveness
38.   Present situation.  The high costs of inputs supplied by enterprises benefiting from
protection (e.g. electricity, and air and sea transportation'7) and remaining rigidities in the labor
legislation are two of the most important factors affecting the competitiveness of Senegalese
enterprises. The system of APs, envisaged to be lifted under the proposed project, presently
prevents companies from freely importing cheaper inputs such as packaging materials, sugar, and
fertilizers. In addition to being unreliable, the provision of power is relatively expensive by
international standardslg.
39.   Currently, air traffic is shared by a two-company oligopoly which results in limited
shipping space and high -by international standards-- transportation costs for goods and tourists.
Air transportation to and from Senegal is regulated by an international treaty (Accord de
Yaounde). Although the treaty can, in theory, be denounced unilaterally by any of the signatory
states, after a six months advance notice, Senegal wants to tackle this issue with other concerned
countries in the context of the establishment of a regional common market under the aegis of the
UEMOA. Sea freight allocated to domestic carriers in accordance to UNCTAD rules (40% of
total freight), was assigned in totality by a government agency, the Conseil senegalais des
chargeurs (CO SEC) to the Compagnie senegalaise de navigation maritime (COSENAM), a
partially government-owned enterprise. Since COSENAM had no shipping capacity, it used its
quota to extract rents by selling it to foreign carriers.
40.   The resulting high transportation cost was aggravated by high handling costs at the port of
Dakar due to the monopoly of the Bureau de la main d'oeuvre du port (BMOP) on the provision
of longshoremen, despite a 1987 law establishing entrepreneurs' freedom of hiring. In the area of
labor, the recent devaluation of the CFAF has reduced labor costs in Senegal (in foreign currency
terms) which were estimated to be much higher than in other developing countries of comparable
income levels (60% higher than in Malaysia, 172% than in Mauritius, and 370% than in
Indonesia). However, efforts to adopt a new and more efficient labor legislation under SAL IV
16  This list includes 28 activities that may affect public health and security, the environment, the safety of air, sea
and ground transportation and of tourism, and banking andfinancial activities.
17  Shipping costs to Europefrom Dakar have been reported to be about 70% higher than thosefrom Bangkok
i8  The cost of the KW/h, provided by efficient power companies is estimated at about S 0.12, this cost is about S
0.16 in Senegal and 0.08 on average in non-franc zone African countries..



17
had been unsuccessful. The GOS was unable to adopt a revised and improved labor code because
of the labor unions' opposition to the dispositions concerning collective lay-offs. The Government
introduced, however, more flexibility in labor regulations by: (i) liberalizing hiring by enterprises;
(ii) authorizing the use of fixed term contracts; (iii) introducing in the investment code
dispositions that would free new enterprises from the constraints of the labor code regarding
hiring and firing; and (iv) extending these dispositions to enterprises operating in the Free Trade
Zone.
41.   Reforms supported by the credit. While the GOS has taken steps to rationalize, in the
medium-term, the cost of utilities through the restructuring of utility companies'9, the reform
program supported by the credit concentrates on reducing, in the short term, the cost of labor and
of sea transportation. With regard to labor costs, the GOS has eliminated in August 1994. the
existing monopoly of BMOP on the hiring of longshoremen. This will result in a decrease in the
cost of labor involved in shipping goods. In order to give enterprises more flexibility the
Government was committed to amend the labor code with a view to abolishing the requirement of
prior approval by the Labor Inspector in case of layoffs due to enterprises economic hardship or
internal restructuring. This measure was implemented in late November 1994. The GOS was
also committed to increasing competition in order to reduce the cost of sea transportation of
imported and exported goods. To achieve this objective it has, in June 1994: (i) modified the
structure of COSEC's management committee to include a majority of private exporters and
importers who would restrict the institution's activity to its main purpose, i.e. to seek the
reduction of the cost of sea freight; and, (ii) terminated the monopoly of COSENAM on sea
transportation. The Government also decided to restrict the maritime traffic to and from Senegal
allocated to national sea carriers20 to traffic carried out through conference lines. This measure
will result in a virtual liberalization of sea transportation because conference lines traffic
represents only 10% of total sea traffic to and from Senegal. In addition, fees currently applied to
importers will be decreased by April 1995 through: (i) the establishment of COSEC's new levy
based on an audit of this agency for the last three annual accounts; and (ii) measures to lessen the
costs of handling merchandises in the port and airport of Dakar. Finally, to facilitate the
administration of customs and lessen their cost to importers and exporters, the GOS established,
in JanuarEy 1995, a system of sealed containers to lower the cost of transshipment of goods within
the port of Dakar and between the port and the free trade zone.
B.    CREDIT FEATURES
42.   Credit Amount and Financing. The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$ 40 million
equivalent, excluding taxes and import duties, representing 18% of adjustment financing and 16%
of external financial requirements for the 1995-96 period (para. 11). This adjustment credit will
19 A Third Water Project to be supported by IDA is aimed at streamlining and privatizing the management
(possibly assets) of the Government water company. T7he GOS has officially requested IDA's support to
rationalize the operations and development of the power company.
20  In accordance to UNCTAD rules 40% of the maritime freight to andfrom a developing country should be allocated to
carriers of this country, 40% to the countres exporting towards the developing country and 20% to third party camers.



18
be disbursed in two tranches, a first tranche of US$ 30 upon credit effectiveness and a tranche of
10 million, upon satisfaction of the conditions for second tranche release.
43.   Implementation of the Reform program. The Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Plan,
working in close cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Commerce, will
have the overall responsibility for the execution of the reform program. The Minister will appoint
a high level project coordinator who will ensure the supervision of the few remaining measures
supported by the project and will report every two months on the status of its implementation to
the Minister who will forward the report to IDA.
44.   Information. Education and Communication. Broad debate with concemed actors and
opinion makers (parliamentarians, journalists, university teachers) was an important element in the
progress made thus far on reforms. Efforts will continue to explain the rationale for the measures,
publicize their impact, and maintain a constituency for reform. Journalists will be trained and
study tours will be organized to visit places where reforms of a similar nature are bearing fruit.
These activities will be financed under the accompanying Private Sector Capacity Building
Project, on the basis of a number of pilot operations currently underway.
45.   Procurement and Disbursements. Procurement procedures are designed to allow rapid use
of the project proceeds and efficiency and accountability in the process. Under the adjustment
credit, eligible imports by public agencies exceeding US$ 3 million and those made by the private
sector exceeding US$ 5 million will be subject to Simplified International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Procurement by public agencies for contracts below the threshold will follow standard
Government practices that have been acceptable in the past. Eligible general imports by the
private sector, below the threshold, will be procured in accordance with normal commercial
practices. Whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries will
be sought. Single source purchasing will only be permitted for proprietary equipment or where
compatibility with existing equipment requires standardization. Contracts of less than US$ 5,000
will not be eligible for financing under this credit. Procurement documentation for contracts over
US$ 3 million for imports by public agencies and 5 million for imports by the private sector will
be submitted together with withdrawal applications and other documents for payment purposes.
Documentation for contract under this threshold will be maintained for ex-post review by the
Bank. This documentation includes: (i) a brief description of procurement procedures; (ii) an
evaluation summary giving the number of bids received; (iii) a comparative statement of prices
received; (iv) dates of contracts and payments; (v) a copy of the contract; (vi) a copy of the
invoice; and, (vii) any other documentation required by disbursements. A pre-shipment inspection
agency is in place and operating satisfactorily. All imports will be subject to pre-shipment
inspection.
46.   Disbursements. The adjustment credit will finance 100% of the cost of imports. There
will be a ceiling of 40% for imports of petroleum products and 30% for those of food products.
Public and private sector imports will be eligible except for those included in the negative list
agreed on during negotiations and imported goods already financed under multi- or bi-lateral
credits. In order to speed up and facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in CFAF, in an
amount of SDR 10 million equivalent, will be opened by the GOS at the Central Bank to finance



19
eligible imports. IDA will make the initial deposit in the special account upon credit effectiveness.
Replenishment requests will be accompanied by proof of eligible imports acceptable to IDA, and
by up-to-date bank statement and reconciliation of the special account. The borrower will
replenish and justify the initial deposit within four months of the effectiveness of the credit.
47.   The credit will be disbursed on the basis of fully documented applications for contracts in
excess of US$ 3 million for imports by public agencies as well as by the private sector or on the
basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures below these amounts. The minimum
amount of applications will be US$ 500,000. The Borrower will indicate on the statements of
expenditures the nature and origin of the goods as well as the payment date, and will maintain all
relevant supporting documentation (invoices, import certificates and evidence of-payment) for
review by supervision missions. In order to permit timely disbursements in the amount needed to
keep the program on track, an amount of US$ 8 million of the credit would be eligible for
retroactive financing of imports paid no more than four months prior to the credit signature date.
48.   Accounts and Audits. The Central Bank will be responsible for collecting the supporting
documentation (copies of the invoices contracts and evidence of shipment and payment, or
customs certificates), for preparing withdrawal applications and will maintain records of all
transactions under the proposed Credit in accordance with sound accounting principles. The
credit accounts including the SOEs and the special account will be audited annually. An audit
report, conforming to internationally accepted standards and prepared by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, will be submitted within six months after the end of each fiscal year of the
Government. The audit report will include a separate opinion on the disbursements made under
the SOE procedure.
C.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CONDITIONALrrY
49.   Agreement was reached with the GOS on a the reform program described above and on a
Letter of Sector Development Policy (LDP) acceptable to IDA reflecting this prograrn which was
signed by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Plan during negotiations.
50.   The following measures have been already implemented:
(i) adoption of a satisfactory implementation decree of the competition law regarding price
regulation (para. 31);
(ii) suppression of authorizations to import eleven products (para. 32 (b));
(iii) suppression of the reference value system for imports (para. 32 (b));
(iv) adoption of a satisfactory implementation decree of the antidumping law (para. 32 (b));
(v) termination of special agreements and Protocoles d'Accord (para 32 (c))



20
(vi) suppression of prior authorizations to export five products (para. 35);
(vii) elimination of the fee paid by exporters to COSEC (para. 35);
(viii) authorization for exporters to import packaging products through the temporary import
regime (para. 35);
(ix) abolition of the monopoly of BMOP (para. 41);
(x) abolition of the prior authorization to lay off workers when enterprises face economic hardship
(para. 41);
(xi) transfer to private exporters and importers of the majority in COSEC's Board of Directors
(para. 41 (i));
(xii) abolition of the monopoly of COSENAM (para. 41 (ii)); and,
(xiii) restriction of the maritime traffic allocation to national carriers to 40% of conference lines
sea freight (para. 41).
51.   Second Tranche Release. The proposed conditions for Second tranche release are the
implementation of the following measures:
(i) enactment of a revised Free trade zone regime dispositions (para. 35 (i));
(ii) enactment of revised temporary import procedures (para. 35 (ii));
(iii) finalization by the GOS of an action plan satisfactory to IDA for establishing a new legislation
regarding incentives for investment (para. 37);
(iv) adoption of a satisfactory implementation decree limiting prior authorization to exercise of
professions to those affecting public welfare (para. 37); and,
(v) satisfactory economic framework (para. 8).
D.    CREDrr BENEFITS AND RISKS
52.   Benefits. An immediate benefit of the credit would be to help the Government maintain,
during the crucial period following the devaluation, appropriate macro-economic equilibrium, thus
helping to keep inflation under control. This will be achieved in particular by the support to the
balance of payments of Senegal that the credit will provide. In the short- to medium-term, the
reform program supported by the credit should also result in economic growth through increased



21
exports and investments. The mechanisms aiming at reinforcing the dialogue between the
Government and the private sector that have been established during the preparation of the credit
should contribute to create a social and business climate favorable to sustained economic
development. In addition to a better investment climate, the policy reform program to be
implemented under the credit should facilitate and enhance the private sector supply response to a
favorable new exchange rate through: (i) a liberalized and more competitive environment; (ii)
improved conditions for increased export opportunities; and (iii) increased competitiveness
through lower cost of production and of maritime transport.
53.   Another benefit of the credit would be its contribution to improve living standards. As
mentioned earlier in para. 29, monopolies, trade restrictions, and high tariffs have proved to be
costly to the Senegalese consumers. By aiming at helping eliminate them, the credit constitutes an
opportunity to correct policies that are detrimental to the poor.
54.   Risks. Many of the reforms included in the proposed project have long been on Senegal's
agenda. While it is impossible to guarantee that what was not done in the past will be done this
time, the likelihood of unsatisfactory implementation and/or backtracking on reforms is very
small. First, as compared to the past, the political context is different and the Government's
commitment to reforms much stronger as evidenced by the many difficult measures taken during
1993 and 1994. Second, the reform program to be supported by the credit is heavily front-
loaded: thirteen of the most important measures were implemented before Board presentation and
the implementation of the second tranche release conditions is in an advanced stage of
preparation. As regards the risk of back-tracking, two developments contribute to alleviate this
risk. The first is the intense debate which took place in Senegal in the Fall of 1993 around the
austerity measures proposed by the Government. Public opinion has been educated on the costs
of monopolies, and there is political pressure from a myriad of small economic operators and
consumers to put an end to such practices. Second, the changes in relative prices resulting from
the devaluation have fundamentally altered Senegal's economic picture. What seemed to require
heroic doses of political courage in the past is now within easier reach. While doubts may still
remain on the depth of commitment of the civil servants to a program destined to curtail their
power and authority significantly, the proposed reforms also have internal constituencies: (i) they
are supported within the administration by a new generation of forward looking technicians; and
(ii) they emanate from a progressive private sector which is organizing itself to obtain a policy
environment more conducive to the development of its activities. In addition, the GOS has
agreed (para. 32 (b)) to an annual review of the external trade regime to be carried out jointly
with IDA. This review will aim at verifying that all Government actions taken in this area are
consistent with the liberalization objective of the program. Finally, the establishment, under the
Capacity Building accompanying project, of the Competitiveness Review Group which
contributed to build up consensus within the private sector and private sector associations on the
reforms to be implemented should mitigate the opposition of special interest groups. The private
sector might also prove ill-equipped to respond as expected to an improved policy and regulatory
environment. The support envisaged to be delivered through the Private Sector Capacity Building
Project should mitigate this risk.



22
55. In sum, while there remain some risks, the alternative of not proceeding with this
operation poses an even higher risk to the success of Senegal's overall adjustment efforts. Fragile
though it is, there is a momentum for reform in Senegal for the first time in years: the probability
that it be sustained and reinforced will be greater with Bank support. As stated in the CAS,
backtracking would lead to an immediate return to a core mode of operations, limited to small
investment projects in human resources development.
56. I am satisfied that the credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
57.   Environmental Impact. This operation does not have a direct impact on the environment.
In accordance with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no environmental rating has been
assigned.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
recommended that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, DC
January24, 1995
Attachments



ANNEX I
Pagc I of s
1/25/95
Rtepblblic or SCnegal
Pi-iv:ite Sectoi  Ad. uitisment anidtI (notiipetilivenress Cre(lit - lPolicy Maitrix
()lsjcclivcs              |   eltc     |  AL11011| Responsille Gov.                                                                                       |Iimetahic abLegal Docunucotlioa no
| Agencies
1. ( *oompcitil I'm nujlottolion
I bIet alitc li cign tl ale  I I         - Abiolish lie telciciice systeim lor impnilort ( io/lenr s1 me,t( min/l c.) Iy                                     Be fi l:Iu, il)  llclore Bloard  D)one 6/I I /'9J
Ja1u1almy 1, 1 995 consistent willi (;AT11                                                                         prescoittiolm                  Arrd(e No. 4791
1 2         . Supprcssiou of prior atilliorizatiomis lo impo1rt clevcn pro(lticts I             MIEI'TDGI)D                     Bcfore Board                  Done, Decrec 94-669
KICAlDICE/DCI                  prescotlationi                of 6/30/94
1.3         - Adoplion of-applicalion decrce of lhe andi-douping law satisfactory to           MK.F1'                          Before Board                   D)one Decrce
IDA\                                                                                                               prsenitatioll                 NO 94-68
EIliminatc alld/limnit       I.4         - Comelctition I aw aiid Ilic Creation of thlc CompCtitioin Comoumittce:            MCAA/DC)tI                                                    I)one, Law  94-53 of
practiccs Of dolinanlt                                                                                                                                                                     8/22/94
positions in the narket                  (i) Adoption of an application dccree regulatlin6g prices satisractory to IDA.                                      Bcforc 13oard                 I)one Decree
presentation                  No 95-76
1.5         - Scild a Iclter to ID )A and( lo thc cnicti ises oh icially comnfi nling tlhc codl of    MI i l'T              Autgust 1994                   I)onc l ettlers of
Itic expiired special agi ecuncitd atnd sfi ng thlat tlhcy wvill iit he cxictndet or                                                             X;25/94
Ii aluitelcidt ti lcw oNvoulc insic Law of tae Ct I I AIt  DI I   l)AKA\ltt )ISFlS,
SIt(O\A 1SI.NIA, ( Sl'l, AFRtICAN      H)( t), I )AKAIR  NIARINI.)
1.6         - Rnclitallac thel rclilmin  cc spcial agreciiicills anid tirolocols in o0(cl lo. (a)   N I IllF
ctiiiiiialc lhesc agichmcnit; and (ti) Iladnatilly Clinlinale Ilicti (tx i)ciIctits
(Sl )tCOCII, ICO() lA, So )D)l:ITF. ltS, S%0tl l XKA, SlNSAC,
So ICoSAC, Sll'S, SN] I1, SOCAS, (;RAND M()t lINS iiid SlN I t NAC)
11o adifilitill, Itic heIchits Inlovidcild Ity tlic Spiecial algreellniuc illlld ptlicots
wilt 1nt be tramislcimcil to new ow.l'icm  Ini Case Ci i ivaltialltiu0ll1 sorale o tlltcsc
ciilcl prises
(i) Agicciiieiet about time actioin plani foi tlie icnegolialitti oCfeail stlecial
agrecilicut                                                                                                        Done in Oct. 94
(ii) chitnioatioo of special ag-ec(etimns                                                                          November 1994                  Done lrotocols
I_____________I_____.                        _         .        signed in Nov. 91
I       prloes d 1)rdticIs arc ccrcal s, gold ailtd jcwelly, mi  ga/.illtCS andtt l)CtiodIcl;ls  kolt a t its, rFeliliZeisjt te,t   Illd It)itpt  PtopylelleC  packting bags, pre-rccorded  talpes, louirato pi stc
cc'tic   ilatd vegeltable oil.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
1/23/95
2. Export Promotion
Increase exports and    2.1  - Suppression of prior authorizations to export (decree No  MEFP/DGD   Before Board      Done, Decree
promote investment in        88-956 dated July 12, 1988): cereals, confectionery                    presentation       94-668 of
the export sector            peanuts, jewelry and tomato products                                                      6/30/94
2.2     -Allow imports of packaging products through the   MEFP/DGD/MCA/  Before Board           Done
temporary import regimes (regimes suspensifs, revision of  DCE/DCI     presentation      Arrete 4743
Arrete No.75-79 dated June 28, 1989).                                                     6/14/94
2.3    - Evaluation and review of the current free trade zone  MEFP/DGD MIEM
system in order to: (i) make the incentive tax package
compatible with international practice; (ii) improve the
transparency of the agreement process; and (iii) improve
the implementation and the control of the free trade
system
(i) Terms of reference                                                 Done               T. of reference
(ii) FIAS Reports available                                            February 1995
(iii) Agreement with IDA on action plan                                April 1995
(iv) Completion of Implementation                                      2nd tranche        Law/ Decrees
2.4    - Temporary import/ drawback regimes (regimes       MEFP/DGD
douaniers suspensifs):
(i) Terms of reference                                                 Done               T. of reference
(ii) FIAS Reports available                                            February 1995
(iii) Agreement with IDA on action plan                                April 1995
(iv) Completion of Implementation                                      2nd tranche        Law/ Decrees
2.5    - Simplification of the foreign trade administrative  MCA/DCE
procedures:
(i) Enactment of the decree regarding the compulsory
application of the instruction (norm) NS 06-001 which
considerably reduces the timing and cost of the procedures             November 1994      Done Decree
94.1169



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
1/23/95
3. Investment Promotion
Simplify         3.1    - Establishment of a list of professions whose exercise  Interior Ministry
procedures and          requires prior authorization because of public security and   and
regulations             health reasons. For all other professions, the entry will be  Modernization
free and all legislation requiring prior authorization will be  Ministry
abrogated.
(i) Agreement on the new list                                         Done, Sept. 94    List
(ii) Adoption of the application decree of Law 94-69 of               2nd tranche       Decree No
8/22/94
3.2    - Adoption of law reducing taxes applied establishment of   MEFP      December 1994    Law adopted
new enterprises, in particular, for small and medium
enterprises
Promote          3.3    - The introduction of legislation to progressively replace   MEFP
investment              the various incentive regimes and simplify the investment
procedures (Laws No. 87-25 and 77-90)
(i) Terms of reference                                                 Done
(ii) FIAS Reports available                                            February 1995
(iii) Agreement with IDA on action plan                                2nd tranche
3.4
- Submission to the National Assembly of a law allowing   MEFP         August 1994      Done
the Government to sell land particularly for industrial and                             Law 94-64
commercial uses in accordance with the zoning rules.                                    of 8/22/94
- Adoption of the application decree                                   January 1995     Decree No



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
1/23/95
4. Reduction of labor costs
Improve the      4A1     - Enactment of legislation authorizing enterprises to  MT/DT          Before Board       Done. Law
flexibility of the      freely adjust the size of their working force according to             presentation       adopted Nov.
labor markets           their level of economic activity.                                                         29, 1995
4.2    - End the monopoly of the BMOP by abolishing the decree  MT/DT                           Done
70-181 of February 20, 1970                                           Before Board       Decree 94-814
presentation      7/30/94



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
1/25/95
5. Reduction of maritime transportation cost
1. COSENAM
Increase         5.1     - Abolition of the monopoly of COSENAM on the 40     MPTM               Before     Board  Done
competition in the       percent domestic share of maritime transportation under                 presentation       Law 94-58
sea transportation       UNCTAD's Convention (40-40-20 rule)                                                        6/26/94
sector
5.2    - Restrict the 40% mentioned in item 5.1 above to the  MPTM             Board Before       Arrete No
traffic of conference regular lines, in accordance to                   presentation       00509
2. COSEC:                UNCTAD rules
(i) Redefine the
role of COSEC    5.3     - Give majority representation to private sector's importers  MPTM      Before Board       Done
towards the              and exporters at COSEC's board of directors                             presentation       Decree 94-606
defense of the                                                                                                      of 6/9/94
interest of the  5.4      - Determination of COSEC's levy on imported goods based  MPTM
importers                on a financial audit of the last three fiscal years
(ii) Lower the           (i) Completion of the audit                                             March 1995         Audit
cost of exports          (ii) Application of the new levy rate                                    April 1995        Decree No
and imports
5.5    - Abolition of COSEC's levy on exports and on        MPTM                Board presentation  Done
intermediate goods imported for the production of goods to                                 Decree 94-606
be exported                                                                                of 6/9/94
3. PAD           5.5     - Implementation of the decision to introduce a system of   DGD/PAD      January 1995       Done Arrete
Improve the              sealed containers to facilitate the transshipment of                                       No.00327
performance and          container within the port of Dakar and between the port
competitiveness          and the free zone
of the PAD
5.6    -Analysis of the cost of using the port and airport of Dakar  PAD/COSEC/CCI/
(PAD, Airport, transit, maintenance, landing etc.):  CAEE/MTT
(i) Terms of reference                                                  Sept 1994          T. of reference
(ii) Proposal of measures to lower the cost for IDA review              May 1995           Draft Decrees
(iii) Completion of implementation of the measures                      June 1995          Decrees Nos.






ANNEX II
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
LETTER OF PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(Translation of French version signed on January 13, 1995)
BA CKGROUND AND GENERAL OBJECTIVES
Il.    With the Franc CFA parity change of January 11, 1994, the Government of
Senegal initiated an overall adjustment of the economy to restore lasting macro-economic
equilibria, sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction. This strategy is presented
in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP), covering the period 1994-1997, prepared in June
1994 and approved in July 1994 by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
2.    Regarding the macro-economic objectives, the adjustment policy aims at achieving
a rate of growth of real GDP of 4.5 to 5% per year starting in 1995, which will result in a
per capita revenue growth of at least 2% yearly and the creation of 20,000 new jobs. This
policy will also ensure the return of the inflation rate, as measured by the GDP deflator, to
a low level of 2-3% per year after the unavoidable rise of inflation associated with the
devaluation estimated at 35% in 1994 and 8% in 1995. Likewise, this policy will lead to a
progressive reduction of the current deficit of the balance of payments (excluding grants)
from 9.8% of the GDP in 1994 to 6.8% in 1997.
32    The Policy Framework Paper (PFP) that defines the macro-economic objectives
for the period 1994-1997 is comprised of a set of measures aimed at ensuring the success
of the new adjustment program. In addition to mitigating the social impact of the parity
change and contributing to the application of a tight monetary and fiscal policy, the
measures spelled out in the PFP aim at pursuing the liberalization of the economy, in
particular, by introducing structural reforms needed to improve the functioning of the
factor markets. Additionally, a public investment program -- based on the development
of human resources as well as of infrastructure and on a prudent and sustainable
management of natural resources -- will be implemented
4.    To ensure a sustainable economic recovery, a quick and significant increase of
private sector activities is required. To achieve this objective, the Government prepared a
strategy and an action plan that it will implement in the context of the Private Sector
Adjustment and Competitiveness Program for which it requested the support of the World
Bank.



2
THE STRATEGY AND ITS SECTORAL OBJECTIVES
5.    To achieve the macro-economic objectives set for the 1994-1997 period, the
Government is committed to consolidate the competitive gains resulted from the
devaluation in order to encourage investments and promote exports. To this end, the
Government had announced in the PFP that it would take all necessary measures to
remove obstacles to the development of the private sector and to stimulate and reinforce
its capacity to respond to the recent adjustment of the CFAF parity.
6.    The Government sought the active participation of the private sector in preparing
the strategy mentioned above in order to avoid the difficulties experienced in the past
during the implementation of the previous adjustment programs . To this end, the
Government established, in February 1994, the Competitiveness Review Group (CRG)
formed by representatives of the Government, the private sector and the labor unions.
Through the CRG, the Government sought to promote a dialogue among different social
partners in order to precisely identify the constraints to private sector development and
achieve a consensus regarding the necessary measures to remove those constraints. Thus,
in March 1994, the CRG created several commissions formed by representatives of the
Government, workers and entrepreneurs. These commissions reviewed the key areas of
concern for the private sector and analyzed the problems that required measures to be
taken in the short- and medium-terms. These measures will complement those taken
immediately after the CFA parity change to: (i) adapt the tariff and the indirect tax regimes
to the new circumstances resulting from the devaluation, and (ii) align the prices of public
services to their economic costs.
7.    Indeed, in the aftermath of the devaluation, the Government reformed the Value
Added Tax (VAT) system by establishing a maximum rate of 20% and reduced the
taxation on imported goods to a maximum of 45% (not including a customs stamp of 5%).
In addition, the Government limited the impact of the devaluation on the utility prices and
petroleum products by increasing these prices by only 20% to 30%.
8.    Overall, as demonstrated by the National Consultation Conference (Journ&es de
concertation nationale) organized by the Government on July 22-24, 1994, the
implementation of the action plan and of the development strategy for the period 1994-
2000, discussed during this conference, is placed under the aegis of consensus among the
different economic and social partners of the society. The private sector development
strategy that emerged from the consultation process is essentially centered on price and
trade liberalization as well as on the improvement of the institutional and regulatory
framework of the private sector. The objectives of this strategy are: (a) in the short-term:
(i) to strengthen domestic competition and improve the competitiveness of the enterprises,
(ii) to emphasize the development of exports and promote investment; and, (iii) to
improve the functioning of the labor market; and, (b) in the medium-term: (i) to revitalize
and rationalize private sector support institutions; (ii) to improve the access of the private



3
sector to bank credit, and, (iii) to improve the judicial framework and the regulatory
environment of the private sector.
9     Regarding the short-term objectives, the consultation process with the private
sector led to an action plan to be quickly implemented so that the economy can profit from
the recent adjustment of the exchange rate. This plan is based on four pillars, namely: the
promotion of competition, the development of exports, the promotion of investment, and
the strengthening of enterprises competitiveness. The objectives supported by this plan
were already approved by the Tripartite Commission in charge of managing the
devaluation. This Commission is formed by Government officials and by leaders of the
business community and labor unions. The measures included in this plan are described
below and presented in the policy matrix, in annex, which is an integral part of this letter.
10.   Finally, the preparatory work to achieve the medium-term objectives mentioned
above has already started. A Private Sector Capacity Building project for which the
Government has already obtained the World Bank support is presently under preparation.
This project will aim at, in particular, at improving the support system for and the legal
framework of the private sector. The improvement of the legal environment of the private
sector will aim, in particular, at adapting the Senegalese judicial and regulatory framework
of the private sector to the regional structure defined by the African authorities of the
CFA Zone. Regarding the objective of improving the private sector's access to credit, the
enterprises financing problems will be examined within the overall improvement of
financial system of the Union economique el monetaire de l'Afrique de l'ouest
(UEMOA).
THE MEDIUM- TERM ACTION PLAN
11.   In the post devaluation period, the strengthening of competition is a necessary
condition to keep the competitiveness edge, induce a rapid response from the private
sector to the parity change and stimulate exports and production growth. Thus, the
Government has decided to take measures to: (i) promote competition in the economy; (ii)
complete the liberalization of external trade; (iii) promote investments; and, (iv) improve
the competitiveness of the Senegalese enterprises.
A.    The promotion of competition within the economy
12.   Elimination of special agreements and protocols. In the past, the Government had
granted special agreements or protocols to 26 enterprises.  These agreements and
protocols provided to beneficiary enterprises, among other benefits, tax holidays and in
certain cases the monopoly to produce and/or to import. In the context of previous
adjustment programs supported by the World Bank, the Government was committed to:
(i) "put an end to the principle of granting of special agreements or accords to public or
private productive enterprises; revise the existing agreements in order to subject
beneficiary enterprises to the common incentive regime applied to all other enterprises
while respecting the legal commitments of the State" (SAL II); (ii) "undertake a review, to



4
be completed in June 1987, of all special agreements, and prepare a program to revise
these agreements" (SAL III), and (iii) "terminate the granting of new agreements,
repudiale those which had expired and put an end to the policy of granting specialfiscal
treatment to companies". In addition, for three enterprises (CSS, SOCOCIM and SAR'),
the Government had agreed to amend the provisions of their agreements, in particular,
with respect to the mechanism of price setting (SAL IV).
13.   In compliance with its commitments, the Government did not grant any new
special agreement since 1987. A new price structure for the products of CSS, SOCOCIM
and SAR was implemented. However, although the review of the special agreements was
completed, as originally envisaged, in 1987 and an action plan for their renegotiation was
prepared, the Government was unable to implement this plan. The main reason for the
failure of the Government to meet its commitment in this area was that none of the
concerned enterprises would have been able, without the protection granted by the special
agreements, to compete with imported products, in particular, because of an increasing
overvaluation of the CFA Franc. Under those circumstances, it was not possible to
overcome the enterprises resistance to the elimination of their privileges which, in
addition, were granted by legal contracts.
14.   With the parity change, the Government recognizes that these enterprises should
now be competitive under the incentive framework common to all other enterprises. The
Government has therefore decided to terminate all existing special agreements and
protocols and it is committed not to grant such agreements in the future. Since 1987, of
the 26 special agreements initially granted, ten have lapsed because the beneficiary
enterprises do not exist any longer and five other have expired.  In June 1994, the
Government has confirmed in writing to the beneficiary of the agreements that have
expired that their specific advantages are terminated and will not be renewed. For those
agreements that are still current, the Government concluded negotiations aiming at
terminating the agreements/protocols concerning: SOCOCIM, ICS, ICOTAF, SIPS,
SOTEXKA, SODEFITEX, GMD, SENTENAC, SNTI and SOCAS2. The negotiations
that the government initiated in August 1994 aimed at: (i) abolishing the import prior
authorization that protected these enterprises and to grant to those which still needed time
to adapt to foreign competition a reasonable and decreasing tariff protection, (ii) to phase
out the fiscal and other advantages included in these agreements. Thus, the Government's
objective with regard to the special agreement of each enterprise had been spelled out in
an action plan that was discussed with the World Bank in October 1994.  Since,
agreements that would terminate immediately the existing special agreements/protocols
have been signed in November by the Government with the management of the enterprises
CSS: Compagnie sucriere du Senegal, SOCOCIM: Societe de commercialisation du ciment and SAR: Societe
africaine de raffinage.
ICS: Industries chiminquLes du Senegal, ICOTAF: Industries cotonnieres africaines, SIPS: Societe industrielle du
papier et cartonnages du Senegal, SOTEXKA: Societe de textile de Kaolac, SODEFITEX: Societe pour le
developpement desfibres textiles, GMD: Grands Moulins de Dakar, SENTENAC, SNTI: Societe nationale de
la tomate industrielle, and SOCAS. Societe des conserveries alimentaires du Senegal. The CSS special
agreement will be renegotiated in the context of the Agncultural Sector Adjustment Program.



5
mentioned above The only enterprises that would continue to benefit from some fiscal
advantages are ICS and SODEFITEX, two enterprises whose production is virtually
totally exported. Three enterprises only (SNTI, SOCAS and SOCOSAC) were granted a
temporary tariff protection varying from 10 to 20% that would phase out over a three year
period.
15.   Price liberalization and promotion of domestic competition. In the context of the
project supporting the adjustment program for the private sector, the Government is
committed to complete the liberalization of prices in the domestic market. To achieve this
objective, the Government has already liberalized in June 1994 the price of soap, milk,
concrete iron, sodas, instant coffee and yeast that were frozen after the devaluation. With
regard to prices that are subject to prior approval (homologation), those of tomato paste
and of imported vegetable oils were liberalized in January 1995. The price of wheat flour
were liberalized in November 1995. As for administered prices, those of fresh tomato, of
locally produced vegetable oils (excluding peanut oil) and of cement have also been
liberalized in Januarv 1995. The prices of rice and sugar will be liberalized in the context
of the ASAP (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program) in June 1995 for the former and in
the context of the revision of the CSS special agreement the latter. In conclusion, only the
prices and tariffs of bread, locally produced medicine, butane gas and services relating to
transports (transit, maintenance and towing boats), will continue to be subject to prior
approval; and only those of petroleum products, charcoal, electricity, water, telephone,
public transportation and health services will continue to be administered.
16.   To promote competition in the domestic market, the Government has proposed in
August 1994 to the National assembly which approved them: (i) a law establishing the
principle of free access to industrial, commercial and artisan professions, only the exercise
of a limited number of professions affecting the general social interest3 will continue to be
subjected to a prior authorization; and, (ii) a law on prices, competition and economic
litigation that establishes a competition commission in charge of investigating anti-
competitive practices and defines measures, including the establishment of prices controls,
to sanction these practices. An application decree of the law concerning professions
requiring prior authorization will be adopted in February 1995. In January 1995, the
Government has adopted an application decree of this law which indicates, in particular,
except for those products whose price will continue to be administered, i.e. products for
which there is a natural monopoly, a very limited number of producers or that have an
impact on public hygiene, health or on the environment, price controls will not be used to
sanction anti-competitive situations. The above measures which constitute an important
step towards strengthening and promoting competition will be followed and consolidated
by the adoption, after consultation with the World Bank, of additional decrees with
regards to the other aspects of the law. In 1995, an evaluation, of the outcome of the
application of the law on prices, competition and anti-competitive practices and
3They consist of 28 professions that affect public health and security and the environment or are related to
transportation, tourism, banking and finance.



6
amendment, also after consultation with the Bank, of any of its dispositions that as proven
to be inadequate.
B.    Liberalization of external trade
17.   Imports. In the context of SAL II and III, the Government committed itself to
reduce domestic market protection, in particular, by: (i) eliminating, in accordance with an
agreed on timetable, import restrictions over goods not produced in Senegal and over a
certain number of goods produced domestically; (ii) limiting the application of import
reference values (valeurs mercuriales); and, (iii) establishing a new tariff structure. The
Government did eliminate the prior authorizations to import, except for certain
agricultural products whose local production was threatened by external competition and
for the products of enterprises benefiting from a special agreement or protocol for the
reasons mentioned above in paragraph 13.
18.   The import reference values and most of the import restrictions were eliminated in
1987 while import tariffs were lowered during the period 1986-1988, as envisaged in the
previous adjustment programs mentioned above. Unfortunately, these reforms were
followed by a sharp decline in some activities of the manufacturing sector and by a
substantial fall in fiscal revenues. These unfavorable developments can be explained by the
fact that other measures, including the devaluation of the CFAF, needed to improve the
competitiveness of the enterprises had not been taken.  In 1989, facing a dramatic
deterioration of industrial output and employment and a critical drop in fiscal revenues
that threatened the macro-economic equilibrium of the country, the Government decided
to increase import tariffs and to reintroduce the import reference value system.
19.   In order to profit from the devaluation and increase the competitiveness of the
enterprises, the Government has now decided to liberalize foreign trade and put all
enterprises currently benefiting, from a special agreement or accord under the common
incentive regime applicable to all enterprises. In particular, the Government will abolish
all prior authorizations to import except for two products (gold and silver in bars and
second-hand clothing). Consequently, seven4 out of the 18 prior authorizations to import
that were still in effect were lifted in June 1994. Prior authorization to import three other
products (polypropylene bags, tomato paste and vegetable oil) has been abolished in
October 1994. Prior authorization to import cement was lifted in November 1994. The
authorization to import wheat flour will be abolished in November 1995. The time lag in
liberalizing imports of the latter product is explained by the fact that the present special
agreement with the milling enterprises stipulates that it can only be denounced after a one
year advance notice. Thus, although this agreement has been terminated in November
1994, the elimination of the prior authorization to import wheat will become effective a
year later. All other prior authorizations to import which concern agricultural products
will be addressed in the ASAP.
4Cereals, jewelry, newspaper and periodics, pre-recorded tapes, mineral and chemical fertilizers, jute bags, and noix
de kola.



7
20.   Regarding the import reference value system, the Government adopted in June
1994 an arrete suppressing the reference value system which is in effect since the
beginning of Januarv 1995. The time lag between the publication of the arrete and its
effective application is explained by the need to avoid, in the second semester of 1994, a
decrease in fiscal revenues that could be detrimental to the 1994 economic and financial
program. Since the beginning of January 1995, the valuation of tariff duties is based only
on the CIF value of imported goods.
21.   Finally, mechanisms to control the quality of imported products and to prevent
fraud, under and over invoicing and dumping practices will be reinforced according to
the provisions of the international agreements ratified by Senegal. In this context, an anti-
dumping law based on GATT rules and disciplines was adopted in August 1994 by the
National Assembly. The application decree of this law was adopted in January 1995. This
decree defines a process for applying antidumping measures that is fully compatible with
GATT provisions. It indicates that: (i) consumers and importers will be represented in the
commission that would investigate reported dumping; and, (ii) only temporary tariff
surcharges established in full compliance with GATT and the with the agreements
resulting from the Uruguay Round will be applied to sanction dumping practices.
However, the Government will not adopt a national legislation to enact the Uruguay round
provisions concerning safeguards measures. In the event that the Government decides to
use these provisions it will do in accordance with international agreements, in particular,
with those relating to the GATT and the Uruguay Round.
22.   Export.  The Government is committed to stimulate and diversify Senegal's
exports, in particular, in sectors such as fishing, agro-industries, horticulture, textile,
services and tourism, and non-traditional exports in general. In the last three years,
exports of goods and services (excluding factor services) represented only about 24-25%
of GDP (as compared to 31% for imports). A particular effort will, therefore, be made to
promote non-traditional exports. Besides the overvaluation of the CFA and the high cost
of technical factors of production which have been now adequately addressed by the parity
change, the development of exports is precluded by lengthy and costly bureaucratic
procedures, the multiplicity of interlocutors, the cost of maritime transportation and the
poor product-quality offered by Senegalese enterprises as compared to the quality
standards required on international markets..
23.   The promotion of exports requires, first, the elimination of all barriers to the
exercise of this activity. In this context, in June 1994, the Government abolished the
remaining prior authorizations to export except for precious metals and minerals, and
groundnut oil whose liberalization will be addressed in the context of the ASAP.
Consequently, the remaining prior authorizations to export cereals, confectionery peanuts,
and jewelry were eliminated by decree in June 1994. The prior authorization to export
tomato paste will has been eliminated in October 1994.



8
24.   In addition, in order to reduce the cost of export activities and encourage their
development, the Govemment adopted in June 1994: (i) an arrete authorizing exporters
to import packaging material under the temporary import regime; and, (ii) a decree
abolishing the levy of COSEC (the Conseil senegalais des chargeurs or shippers
association) on exports and on the importation of inputs for the production of goods to
be exported. Finally, the Government has adopted in October 1994 a decree simplifying
export procedures and introducing new compatible with the intemational norm NS 06-001
which will greatly reduce delays and costs.
25.   The status of competition in Senegal and the implementation results of the
measures relating to trade and price liberalization will be annually reviewed in consultation
with IDA. This review will aim at verifying that extemal trade enjoys a reasonable degree
of competition with imports mostly in the sectors where there is a limited number of local
producers.  It will also aim at assessing the impact of all measures taken by the
Govemment in these areas and ,in particular, of those which might have been taken in
application of the antidumping law. More generally, this review will assess the impact of
these measures on the liberalization of trade and prices and on the economy.
C.    Investment Promotion
26.   Currently, there are several different investment incentive regimes in Senegal: the
tax code, the investment code, the industrial domain regime, and the export processing
regime (Free Trade and Single Factory Zone -- FTZ and SFZs). Despite the existence of
these regimes which provide substantial fiscal advantages to potential investors, the level
of new investments in the last years has been disappointing. The complexity of the
different incentive regimes coupled with the long uncertainty generated by the exchange
rate policy largely explain the weak performance of direct investments between 1986 and
1993. Indeed, during this period negative rates of foreign investment were recorded.
The recent CFA devaluation will certainly improve substantially the profitability of
investments made in Senegal. Nonetheless, an improvement in the incentive regimes is
required to achieve a significant increase in the level of investment.
27.   The improvement of the investment incentive system will concern, first, the export
processing zone regime. Its fiscal incentives ought to be aligned on those granted in
accordance to best international practice and the agreement procedures to the benefits of
the FTZ or SFZ ought to be streamlined. As a second step, the Government has decided
to rationalize the others incentive regimes that currently grant investment benefits only on
an exceptional basis. The objective is to consolidate all existing incentives schemes into a
unique common system applicable to all investors and whose application would be
automatic, simple and prompt in order to build up the confidence of the potential investors
which is indispensable to increase the level of investments in Senegal. The government is
presently carrying out, with the Bank's assistance through FIAS, a comprehensive review
of the export processing zone, the temporary import regime, the investment code and the
industrial domain regime. The recommendations of this review expected to be completed
by February 1995 will be discussed with IDA in April 1995 with a view to prepare action



9
plans for their implementation. These plans will be implemented in 1995 in the context of
the Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness credit. The action plan relating to the
investment incentive regimes will be implemented in the context of the revised PFP for the
period 1994-1997.
28.   In the meantime, the Govermnent has decided to adopt several measures to
simplify and ease investment procedures and regulations. Firstly, it has reviewed the cost
of creating new enterprises and adopted in December 1994 a law to reduce it. Secondly,
in order to facilitate the dealings of enterprises with the govemment, a census of
enterprises and associations will be carried out in 1995 with a view to providing individual
enterprises with a unique identification number that they will be able to use with any
govemment body.  Thirdly, in order to strengthen the enterprises capital base, the
Government proposed to the National Assembly which approved them in July 1994: (i) a
law allowing them to adjust their balance sheets to reflect the impact of the devaluation
without increasing their tax liability; and, (ii) a law allowing the State to sell public land to
industrial and commercial ventures. The application decrees of these two laws has been
adopted in January 1995.
D.    Enterprise Competitiveness
29.   The January 1994 devaluation and the enterprises continuous own intemal
adjustment efforts should result in a stronger and long lasting competitiveness position.
The Govemment aims at consolidating these efforts by reducing the cost of utilities
(facteurs techniques de production), the cost of maritime transportation as well as the cost
of labor which constitute an important part of the enterprises cost of production..
30.   With respect to utilities, the Govermnent will continue its policy measures adopted
in the aftermath of the devaluation. Thus, in the context of the third and fourth water
projects supported by the World Bank and other donors, the management of the Societe
nationale des eaux (SONEES) will be privatized in order to increase SONEES
productivity and control over its costs. With regard to energy costs, the Govemment has
already requested the support of the World Bank for a comprehensive program to
overhaul the energy sector. Before the end of February 1995, the Government will submit
to the World Bank a report indicating its objectives, strategy and action plan that it intends
to implement in the energy sector to: (i) eliminate inefficiencies and resulting rents and,
therefore, reduce the cost of energy to enterprises and individual consumers; and, (ii)
promote investments in the sector and facilitate their financing.  This report will, in
particular, include a definition of the role of the state and the private sector in the
development of the sector and the streamlining of the legal and regulatory framework
which presently limits competition and justifies the existence of monopolies.
31    Maritime transport. With regard to maritime transportation, the Government has
decided to take measures to reduce its cost and simplify its procedures. To this end, the



lo
Government has abolished in June 1994 COSENAM's5 monopoly to exploit the national
maritime traffic rights. In June 1994, the Government decided also to give to private
exporters and importers the majority in the Board of Directors of COSEC, the shippers
association in charge of administering Senegal's traffic rights. Through this decision, the
Government want to ensure that the interests of the shippers are well represented in the
allocation of maritime freight between eligible maritime carriers. In addition, in order to
open maritime traffic to increased competition, the Government has decided to apply
strictly UNCTAD's recommendations which limit Senegal's traffic rights to the maritime
traffic, to be administered by COSEC, carried out by vessels operating regular lines under
conference arrangements. This measures which has been adopted in January 1995, should
result in greater competition and, therefore, in a decrease of the maritime transportation
cost.
32.   Finally the Government is intent on reducing the cost of the services offered by the
port and the airport of Dakar. To this end, it has decided to reduce the cost and simplify
the functioning, management and utilization of physical areas under customs supervision,
by establishing a system of inviolable seals. This system will be introduced before the end
of January 1995.  In addition, in order to reduce the transit costs of imported and
exported goods in the port and airport of Dakar (maintenance, transit, landing costs etc), a
study will be carried out and its recommendations implemented in the first semester of
1995.
33.   Labor cost and flexibility.  Under previous structural adjustment programs
supported by the World Bank, the Government had committed itself to introduce greater
flexibility in the labor market and in the determination of the salary structure of the
economy. Twice in the past, in 1987 and 1991, the Government prepared draft laws in
accordance with commitments made in the context of SAL II, III and IV. The morosity of
the labor market due to the weak performance of the economy coupled with the relative
lack of information of the public opinion about the necessity of these measures, precluded
the adoption by the National Assembly of a new labor law reflecting government
commitments. This new law aimed at: "(i) eliminating the monopoly of the government
bureau of labor over hiring, thus allowing enterprises to freely hire their workers, (ii)
introducing more flexibility in the renewal of fixed-term contracts; (iii) allowing
enterprise facing economic hardship to adjust their labor force; (iv) revising the salary
structure in order to reduce labor cost and to give to the labor market a larger role in
determining wages, reducing thereby the role of the State in setting up salary structures;
and (v) making optional the negotiation of national labor contracts."
34.   Although the draft law was not adopted, the Government acting by decrees
managed to: (i) eliminate the bureau of labor monopoly and liberalize hiring by enterprises;
(ii) authorize the renewal, over a five year period, of fixed-term contracts; (iii) amend the
investment code in order to exempt new companies from the rigidities of the labor code;
s COSENAM: Compagnie senegalalaise de navigation maritime



I]
and (iv) extend the investment code more liberal dispositions concerning labor to
enterprises operating in the export processing zone.
35.   Despite these improvements, the Government considers that the flexibility and the
productivity of the labor force should be strengthened as envisaged in the previous
adjustment programs. Learning from previous experience, the Government has initiated a
dialogue with the different social partners on the reform  of labor practices.  The
Government also encouraged labor unions and business associations to achieve a
consensus that would facilitate the adoption of the required amendments to the labor code.
This dialogue resulted in the identification of two measures that the government has
decided to implement. The Government, first, abolished in June 1994 the monopoly of
BMOP6 for hiring longshoremen whose remuneration was placed under the general
provisions of the labor code which allows piece-work compensation. Secondly, the
Government plans to authorize companies to freely adjust their labor force to the level of
their economic activity. Discussions of this measure held at the national level -- in
particular during the July 1994 National Partnership Forum -- have already established the
basis of a consensus and this measure has been adopted in November 1994.
THE PREPARA TION OF A MEDIUM- TERM ACTION PLAN
Judicial framework and technical assistance to the private sector
36.   In addition to creating an economic environment that is attractive to private
initiative, the Government considers that it is important to improve of the legal and
regulatory framework of the private sector and to increase enterprises productivity. The
Government has requested and obtained the assistance of the World Bank to implement
the necessary measures to achieve these objectives in the context of the Private Sector
Competitiveness Technical Assistance Project. To identify judicial constraints affecting
the private sector, the Government has established at the beginning of 1994, a working
group including representatives of the government, private entrepreneurs and lawyers.
This working group has identified, in a preliminary report submitted to the Government in
March 1994, a first series of reforms to improve the judicial framework of the enterprises.
These reforms relate to: (i) the provision to enterprises of legal securities in their dealings
with the State, (ii) the creation in the courts of a specific office of the clerk for commercial
matters; (iii) the reform of the law and supporting professions dealing with bankruptcy and
receivership procedures; (iv) the assistance needed by the National Commission in charge
of the harmonization and of the codification of the commercial and civil codes; (v) the
creation of an arbitration body; (vi) the creation of a new judicial framework for micro
enterprises, and (vii) the dissemination of legal information. A judicial reform group has
since been established to prepare the implementation of these reforms.
6 BMOP: Bureau de la main d'oeuvre du port.



12
37.   The strengthening of the management capacity of the enterprises will complement
the measures taken in the policy environment. To this end, the Government plans to
create a Private Sector Foundation (PSF) that will play an intermediary role between the
private Senegalese enterprises and the sources of foreign and local technical assistance.
The PSF will have a status and a management similar to AGETIP. The Foundation will
administer, on a grant matching basis, a technical assistance fund that would help
enterprises to get the technical assistance that they need to increase their technical a and
managerial capacity.
38.   Operating in parallel in the context of the Private Sector Competitiveness
Technical Assistance Project (PSCTAP), the PSF, the legal reform committee and the
Competitiveness Review Group will, therefore, constitute the three components of this
project.
39.   These two operations, the PSAC and the PSCTAP, will both benefit of the
financial and macroeconomic stabilization policy that the Government is pursuing. In the
long term, the policies to improve the productivity of the production factors will
contribute to maintain the competitiveness of the economy. This will be a necessary
condition for the Senegalese enterprises to benefit as much as possible from the regional
integration. In addition, competitiveness creates better conditions to reduce poverty, in
particular, by job creation. Finally, it is a sure instrument for achieving the Government's
growth objectives.
Washington, DC January 13, 1995
For the Government of Senegal
(The original letter in French is signed)
Papa Ousmane SAKHO
Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
Key Economic Indicators
.   .                                                                              .   _  .  . _~.  
W3y N=                            1BA    1.3    1.5  W1.    19.2   19.1   19.0   19.3   19.7   221   MA           mk
u~tiuyu~                         57to.0   614 A  0.3   60.9   60.    61A    6. XD.7   54 lC.0  llL                OR
Ri4xiam                          9f#.0    9.9   55S4    6.4    i.0   5Z.1   W-8   91A4   a8   U6    I.LO          m
* tic in, _t  1/                 12L3    25    12.0   2.2    V3    12;!    VZ2   215  1.5    %4    %.             ma
.bic tib  Itk   t                 3.8    4.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.       3.     3.9    ma
-i%  fin                          84  a5    8.3    Ls    86    8             Ls    U        9.7   10     10W7     m
3x= bgam                         -6.3   -60    -55    -6.5   -7.1   -7A6   -5.0   -3.8   -3.2   -2.9   -2.6       ma
T OfW an                         Z5    3.5    3.6   X.7   8.7    8.8    8SJ    4A   1XJ    X.3    1.0             4
Wu on                           -31.1  -31.5  -31.0  -312   -30   -31.4  -2.8   -3.2  -27.7  -2.2  -aL6           ma
a dic  .frw                       6.0    5.1    6.6    S6    LSO   4.9    7.2        .    I.    11.4   12.0       ma
s m4p6 (orvut LS ilLia)        49.92  4ZS  S1   50P.S 02L5  57M.0 3M7  "MA    12.  491.5  57    SL
F- ct  (z.r   L) 7UM     .5i   710.1 7I.6  8M.3  7W.7  4A14    I 5 37.8                     4         .3   50       J
mm   )wnm(A                     2979    319.0   F2.3   212    0E   MLS   SU    S77  5152   59.6  2Y.6  5SJA
.IC FDWM  dCo  of M      wtPi. atici) VJ
nit rewle cud. guA) 186   17.2   192   1L9   17.7   5.7  1UA    5.0   15.3    5.7  15.8                          m
4 spdbm  rd rut  1*g             .A6   21.5    11    19.9   21.3   19.6   1L9    17       17.0   15.9   15.5     ma
taL apl (+) cr a ficit C-)       -4.0   -4A     0.3   -1.0   -3.7   -3.9   -4.5   -2    -1.7   -02       03      la
tat sprd!Wv                      2.8    2.6    2.      4.4    5.0    4.0    4.7    4J    4.9    4.9    5.1       m
max gJT  min (1W p-i) a
i dic Sut                        5.1   -1A      4.5    0      2.9   -2.0    Z4    4.7    4.8    4.5    4.5       ma
i dic ir                         3.0    3.0    5.5    0.3    2.7    la       Ma    mA      ma    OR       N%     ma
MU^L P1 O - TA OlEM PA7  CI  p4) 00
;     ic pr                      2.1            1.5   -2.1    0.0   -4.9   -0.5    1.8    1.9    1.6    1.6    la
. anmicn                       C09    -3A4   -03   -1.2    0.    4.7   -2.9    02    0.1    0.2    1.0          S
me aunptian                     A1   -42    0.3    04    1A    -52    -04          12    0.7    12       1.4     M
i t CP>A                        4.4    4.0    44    43    4.3    4.9    5.1    4.         4.6    4.5    4.5      ma
thru tm f e                      0.5 a.  .3   -4.     Si    3.6  -2.6   M4    1.7   1Z.9    9.0    a.            B



ANNEX II
Page 2 of:
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
Key Economic Indicators (continued)
NM       NMI      lffM     lS9     1im     19Q   1K      InX   Wml    W7        1R 19
P4MC CF PMAr6S (anut  A Bi luas)
GM                            344.5   4W3   4C.9   31.0  3763   3S.5   792   WJ.5            .O   92   flV.5  tS.7
of bndh: 8Wdud    f.o.             aL1   3M2U0   X3.3  223   2192   a3.7  444.2   3.7  544.1   S.9   60.6   697.9
IRw  on                             -458    4E5.1  -47.8  -4775  -479.1  -4.0  4M.7  -M.7  -lfZA  -10M..  -114.5  -212.7
of ,hidc: Md a    f.o.              -aE    -319  -317.0  -3143  -317.7  -312.0  -3    -.9      6J   -721.3  -775   -81.6
Pmw         b9z=                     -963   -&.A   -75.9   -W.5  -U.M  -110.5  -M5   -1102  -111A  -123   -116.0  -127.0
Not ft   rA                          -72.0  -61.2   -.0   -542   -5&0    54.1  -%.7  -9.6    93   -7.6   -.9  4.1
of bidc: Inrrt diC   d  5a)         61.6         55.0   46.1         0    4.7   81.7   83.5    5.0    &.2    MA    79.5
N a>vt   ts wft  (:H)                  1.8    2.0    8o ao0    9.7   11A    X.0    3.7    27.0  a.                29.9   31A
O.,t kIjt WL., bdtEaff. Uu.  -tMVA  -42.0  -M1.9  -17  -146.1  -12   22   -181.1  -.7  -1.A   - 150  -1V7
Nat official 0wnfe                    812    I.9    72.2   742    7L  67.9   19.9  1273   1.9  T.6    MA   12.3
O.act cc    bL, dEtf. u.    -5.3  -5.1  -W.7  -57.9  -72.0   63   -23   -J    -518   -46.   '43.6  -46.
OITM. xir                             123    Z.6    35.3   3.4    37.5    6.5   5.4    W6.7   42.8    &.9    74.3   6&0
P.Kic 50    Out)                     35    40J    11.8   16.4   372  2S3    77.4   14.1  XLO    47.8   56.9   48
-WLIM     M0   U.9   MA    6J    789   64J3  169    O.0   lYO0  12D.0    W.0    M.0
a-i':joic                          -61.5  -6-  I 6    -h    -41.7  -41.0  -S.5  -75.9  -74.0  -72.2  -73.1  -8.4
Prit So    (rut)                   -ZL0  -4.7   -3.4   -1.1   -9.8  -1.3    5.0    106   1L.    t.1   17.4   17.4
Erim. rd Oniam                        0.8   -2.5    3.9   -1.9   101    -1.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
oAn.LL btm                        -73.0  -3.5   -cA   -445   -345   -78.8   59.1  -29.1   -9.0   16.1    L7    19.6
F    lWC                              70 o   25        A    445    345    78    -59.1   29.1    9.0  -16.1  -3.7  -19.6
Not fawir A        )                  3.1   -12   -17.9   -4.0   -5.4   31.7  -74.2  -61.0  -A&9   -X..2  -35   -27.1
4uiau  mat wM ud                    317   -31.8  -10.7   -7.1    6.3   A.4  -%6    -I.5   -55    -1.2   -1A    -9
Not  of PM                           CA     1.6   -72      3.1  -11.7   -7.7   22        22.5    L9   -3.0  -37.1  -202
Puo    wt  tCre i= -)                 0O0   11A    -7.5    5.6   27.4   373  -1742O   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
De  riiefJf/dfaL                     3.9   443    49.8    2.9   12.5    9.9   W3    -1.A   LS    82             7.9    7.5
Firw irt 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   91.6   47.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
G       , rw-A, Ywr-qr COE allit)     107    17.9   103    2.1    U.4    52    43    2.8   17 A   lZ.5  T25.0              uk
0-inwwn a i  of "prd                  0.1    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1        03      1.3    1.2    1.1    PA
Efpxta On n % of WP                 Z32    27.1   25J.8        6    22.6    2.2   3.9    30    3.7   32.7    3.6    32.5
nprw OnS a X of t                    -29.7  -3L7   -30.7   -        - .0  -2.8   -3.0  -3.8   -373   -367   -365   -36.3  -363
Anew= bLa-  a- I ofP                  -65    -5.6   -4.9   -5A    -62    6.j   -5.8   -43    -4.1   -3.8   -3.7   -38
mJL  an  AT    (a.rwt pie  CM
AddipW, f.b.                           0.2   19.7    0.5   -4A    -5.7   -7.1  11.1   132          82    9.5    9.2    73
Wiw     iu, fob.                     -t9    11.9   -05    -0.9    1.1   -1.    87.6    7.1    6.8    7.7    7.7    7.1
Plum DOIES tImw
E*wt p-ic irci tCA fvwc am           U.S   'KU      1o3       .9    873    a9.0     4    M7   1I8  169.3   ;3Z.9  Z1
l-t p,cm irS  (CMA fr*= te           a..9   91.2    a.      5.8  I.6        .2   179   17A9  1M          1U.5   1.9  2DC2
Trm of o                             1377   1193   11.0  1X5.6   1.5  1I5.2  'MA   1W.5  1G.7  1M.2  lo"6    MS.9
leffiw.ficu rwcw    5 13                       .8  953    33         7.1    5.2   543       OR     la      la     la       A
icmuA  pricefin CXaih rh)             -1.8    0A      03    -18    0.0    0.7   39.1    7.8    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
GDP def       CZ rogi roW             2.1    0.9    0.6    1.6    1.5    0.4   35.4    7.          2.5    2.5    2.5    25
1/ Figabra   E nflt  do    in s
2/ Figm fEc ?1991  rm Ew f, r.iw  fiscaf yam
s5r:   NF ,id  1*-



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
Balance of Payments
.. . .. . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .    ...       ....  ...    . ..----w--*-------                      ..  jG ...............*
3h.5  4=D    I=.9   31.0  37653   3.5   79.2   &335 . LO              22   IG75  'AS.7
_  _   *Wdsw t.o.^     asx 1   X>    2;~~~~X3   7rU c    19.2  23.7  4"2    5Q7   5w. 1   5W.9   M.6  6r7.9
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q.   -4X    -s&45.77.5  -479.1  -4.0  -MI.7  -M.7 -lMP.4 t1=5 -1143.5 -272.7
y nAic: mm u-w   t.da.b              -       -319  '317.0  .3u 3  *317.7  32.0  -3   46.9   -9J   721.3  776.5  -5
m   s(a-m                            _.3    -Q      -75.9  -NJ5  -.J  *110.5  -2.J  -110.2  -111.4  -123   *116.0  -1V7.0
'=w 0'w=                           -7LZ0  -61.2   -.0 Y542   -M.0  -S5.1   4.7  -%4    -4&3   -97.6  ,.9   4S.1
u" in: Irw=  d                       616    54.5    5.0      Wl   ".0    "       .7 81.7  ISJ    5.0    5.2    5.4         9J
't CUI'MM t: W ofg  (;rilArw          1       L0      Lo ac0    9.7   11.4     .0    a.7    V.0    3.s    W.9   314
rr_ Atw  tat., tWin of. v't -463   -14L0  -11.9  -M7  -144.   -12.2  -Z3.2  -t8.1  -1aL7  -18St.4   1LO  -07
Oc cicai t .....                     51.2    5.9    72.2   7LJ    7.1    CS.9   IN.9  IVJ t          9    M.6  134    142.3
*-rI A=6  CO., ofS   ON. -ltSf        .3   *9.1   59.7  -57.9  -7LO   -5.3   S33   -StJ    51J    -4"    -43.6  <-4
#'AL AC=T                             t3    3.6    33        3.4    7.3    6.5      . *    X.7    4L5    Q9    7.3   6J.0
,^ i c SW= Cr, )                     34*5   40.5   11.8   164    37.2   233        77.4   14.1  DLO    '7.  5 9    '4.
'nwrgg                               a50.2.          D4 69           L       3   %L9    ';O0  IO 0.O  IX.O    M.0   5.0
Tzo~~~~~~~~~6.    -9. I   -d.6   ILL 53                41.7  -41.0  -6.    -75.9  -7.0   -7L2   -73.1  -81 A
'4tv Ss3r (r)                       -73.0    4.7    -3..   -1.1   495   4.3        5.0    10      IL     1S.1    17.4   17A
-xa  aCf'sO icra                      0.8   -2.    a$.9   -1.9   10.1   -1.5    0.0    0.0    .O0          0.0    0.0    0.0
0.wuLL  DLwU                      -73.0   -33    -X.4  -"J   3-4J   -7U          9.1   -D.1    4.0       i.1      7    19A
I*sC=                                73.0    Z3 2. aA    43    34          7LJ   ..1    D.1    9.0   -61   -D.7   -19.
Gr A l tC)                           39.1   .D.2   .17.9    4.0   -54    31.7  -716.2 i61.0 O49    A.2   .3L3  7 '.1
-wwiom smait ird   ~                   7    -31.1   10.7   -7.1    63    3P.4   -%A    -.5    -.8          1.2   -1.1.   -6.9
ot ~am of   rkm                       0.4    1A    -7.2    3.1  -11.7   -7.7    Z4    ZLj          8.9   -5.0   -37.1  -2.2
r T s tesi.)                    0.0    11A4    7.5    5A    VA    373  -17.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
i ifeidwto I                         3.9     d.3   49.5   429    125        9.9  19.3   -1A        L5    82       7.9    7.5
-wcir  MP                             A0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   91A    47.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
..................
MS __ l, Y__wt cm    Iii)N            1L     t7.9   10.3   12.1   14.4    5.2   *63    26SJ   t      12-    MD             N
M rwaw%w a =~ z  of infm              Q0.1    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1       03      13      1.2    1.1    M*
=res ain a  S of (ZP                 Z2    V.1    3.J    A.4   ZL.         2.2    33.9   33.0    37    37    2.6   3L5
=rsz 00 O     f  -o3.7   -R.    -3?   -30.0  -3.    -3.0  -39J   -73   -MI7   -30    -3   -M3
c        CS mW  M % of ta           -6.5  J5.    .4.9   -54    -62    '6.1   -5.           43     4.1    3.3       .7    33
i.k  T1(p RATES (cu t Wriao) M
-    a        , f.o.                 0.2    19.7    0.5   -4.4   -5.7   -7.1  1181    13.2        82      9.5    9.2    7.3
-ms lr, , f.ob.                      -0.9    11.9   -0.5    <.9    1.1   -1.1    V.6    7.1    6.8         7.7    7.7    7.1
M :: :     1 0w=1
-  =-im  i     (VA f_VU             US    ICU .     K .3    39  0'3    9.0   M"           M.?   1w       1W.3 =.9   212.1
2--oa ira  (:A truW U M.9    91.2    a.0                 5AS    .6   5b.2   1M.9  1774   1D34    W.5   1%.9  7.2
f -: .&7    1193   114.0  1tcA   10..5  1W.2   1.4   107J   11.7   1.2   U.6   I3.9
t rr:wnw   wr rmCD W   R 93 SSJ                     93.3  0'       8.1    5.2    %.3    Ia         la      l       *% 
-   'rc ir =C' Iraw                 - 1.8    0.4    03   -1.5    0.0   -0.7   39.1    7.'        L5      2.5    2.5    2.5
wat'aM w          2)                Li      0.9    0.6    1.       1.5    0.4   35.4      7j     L5    2.5    2.5    2.5
,      mrt Mrytct awW  m in 
-: ;   ,ru   '9-1W  w  fr ft ru    iw  fiC   Vm.
rm:  W.~rtlW



ANNE0
Page 1 o
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
Key Exposure Indicators
~~~~~~~~ ..-t. *---   Pr@ia - --->p
JnLSSm                           *m mcgi
Tatw t*' dl6 &     rg CM  V   3.0 3M"        O1  M7.0 MWX  X  NU   MO  3.  SO  SW                  MA
Mt d*uwt  V                    115^.    .9   AM    3.1  1O    813  m3    1        51.4   8.1  9&5   MA
TotL d  wvi= de C    /Q V    0 LA   MU   DU.1 Zi63    5   ZJL2  2L.1 azo   M6J  3X.9  Z. OMAP
Mt wd Oft ftM    kdm        V
T8.3  71.0    6     A.1   57.   6L7   91.1  ODA     3    .       0   S 7
Tt=zgzCG~~~~~~~~ 3f 1  25j.7  25A22<                 7,9.6  XL       U   22A    O3  179.9W
27.7  21l.0  2D3   Z2   2DA   21.5   21.9  19.7   W      S      46 I
55>kuM96 4   5.2  552   57.4   O.8   6.6      7   M6   72.   7L3   75.7
ibid BB* psua Irirsmg C!W D'-MA )X
WW-id rf S i i                  La   8    11.    W        5.0   W9 10.2  112   11._  11.7  11.3   22
P dlGvtCrrD3jtIC09             31.0  31.3  3.J  41A   55.1  41.1   4.9  49.6   4        47.9  46A   463
Wbtd b*                         2.1   1.9   1.7   2.1   1.5   2.1   2.0   1.    1.7   1.5   1A    1.3
V/ 1kUw P.Lic rd p.Uidy  mw9    d, p-ia   Mm  w     i t, wme of w cta, wd   ttuo =WuL.
j   If, Df  9,0               C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
Status of Bank Group Operations
Statement of [BRD Loans and IDA Credits
(As of December 31, 1994)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)           Last ARPP Rating
an or                                                                       Undis-   Disburse   Dev.        Imple.
-dit No        FY                    Purpose                Bank    IDA  bursed    lag (%/6)   Objective  Progress
'entv (20) Loans closed                                    129.33
tv six (59) Credits closed                                           751.03
55-SN        1988            Irrigation IV                            33.60    1.85       ( 4.0)     S          S
,8-SN        1988            Industry Sector                          33.00   20.18       ( 0.3)     U          U
s4-SN        1988            Municipal Housing Dev.                   46.00   19.20        37.3      S          S
.0-SN        1988            TA Development Mgmt                      17.00    6.54        38.5      S         U
)2-SN        1989            Small Rural Operations II                16.10    6.83         2.8      S         S
)7-SN        1990           Agricultura Research I                    18.50    8.79        41.8      S         S
;5-SN        1991           Human Res. I (Pop/Health)                35.00   17.59         51.2      S         S
,6-SN        1991           Transport Sector SECAL                   65.00   48.36         56.3      U         U
,9-SN        1992           Public Works & Employ. II                39.00   37.31         87.9      U         U
'3-SN        1993           Human Resources Dev. II                  40.00   39.96          0.0      S         S
6-1-SN      1994            Transport Sector SECAL                    3.73    3.88           -
2-1-SN*     19              Economic Recovery Credit                  3.20    3.33       ( 2.4)      S         S
al number of Credits= Thirteen (13)                                 389.03  220.97
TOTAL (including closed projects)*'           129.33  1,101.16
of which repaid                               97.78    33.23
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                       31.55  1,067.94
TOTAL Undisbursed                                              221.20
Not vet effective.
Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
SUMMARY OF IFC NVESTMENTS IN SENEGAL
(As of December 31, 1994)
Onrginal Gross Commitment
Fiscal                                    Type of                       Loan  Equity  Total
Year   Companv                            Business                     ----US mil--
1967    Societe Industrielle d'Engrais
du Senegal (SIES)                Fertilizer Plant               1.70     1.01     3.47
1972    BUD Senegal                       Vegetable Export               -        0.84     0.84
74n6
1974/   SOFISEDIT                         Development Finance            -        0.34    0.34
85
1980    Banque de l'Habitat du Senegal    Capital Markets                -       0.46     0.46
1980    Societe H6teliere du Barachois    Tourism                        3.00     -       3.00
1982/   Industries Chimiques du Senegal   Fertilizer Plant             37.00      0.14    37.14
88
1986    African Seafood                   Fish Processing Plant          3.29     0.82     4.11
1986    SOTIBA-SIMPAFRIC                  Textiles                       3.20     -        3.20
1988    AFRICAMER                         Fishing                        3.45     -        3.45
1994    SOGECA                            Leasing Company                -        0.16    0.16
1994    SOEX                              Livestock                      0.19     -       0.19
TOTAL Gross Commitments                                        51.83     3.77    56.36
less Cancellations, Repayments and Sales                      42.06     3.01    45.83
Net Commitments held by IFC                                     9.77     0.76    10.53
TOTAL Undisbursed                                               0.45     0.14     0.59



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
Relations with the Fund
( as of June 30, 1994)
I     Membership Status joined August 31, 1962. Article XIV
1I    General Resources Account:                 SDR million        S of guota
Quota                                      118.90             100.0
Fund holding of currency                   149.33             125.6
Reserve position in the Fund                 1.10              0.9
II   DR SDepartment                        SDR million        % of allocation
Net cumulative allocation                  24.46              100.0
Holdings                                    0.88                3.6
IV    Outstanding Purchases and Loans      SDR million        % of guota
Stand-by arrangements                      31.54             26.5
SAF arrangements                           26.39             22.2
ESAF arrangements                         141.69            119.2
v     Fmancial Arrangements:
Amt. approved Amt. Drawn
e       Approval Date      Expiration Date    SDR Million (SDR Million)
d by     March 2, 1994       March 1, 1995          47.56              30.91
F        Nov. 21, 1988      June 2, 1992           144.67             144.67
d by     Oct. 26, 1987       Oct. 25, 1988          21.28              21.28
VI   Projected Obligations to the Fund (SDR million; based on existing use of
resources and present holdings of SDRs):
Overdue                              Forthcoming
06/30/94    1994         1995        1996        1997         1998
,ipal           --         10.8        26.8        30.6         45.6        44.4
ges/interest    -           1.7         3.2         3.1          2.8         1.4
rAL              --        12.6        30.0        33.7         48.4        45.8



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1     Time taken to prepare the Credit:                     Nine months
2.    Initial discussions with IDA:                         March 1994
3.    Pre-appraisal                                         September 1994
4.    Appraisal/Negotiations:                               Decemberl 994/January 1995
5.    Board presentation:                                   February 1995
6.    Planned date of effectiveness:                        February 1995
7.    Expected project completion:                          December, 1995









