Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF NUMBER 023231
Belgian Grant Agreement
(Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(collectively the Bank)
as Administrator of the Belgian Funds
Dated March 28, 1996
TF NUMBER 023231
BELGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (collectively the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of the 
Belgian funds.
WHEREAS (A) by an arrangement, dated November 2, 1995, (the Arrangement) between 
Belgium and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to administer the Belgian funds in 
accordance with the provisions of said Arrangement;
(B)
the Recipient has requested Belgian funds from the Administrator to 
cofinance a program of reform under the Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness 
Credit (the Program) and the Administrator has determined that the provision of such 
funds (the Belgian Grant) would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Arrangement;
(C)
the Recipient has also received additional assistance towards the 
financing of the Program under an agreement (the Development Credit Agreement), dated 
February 23, 1995, between the Recipient and International Development Association 
(IDA), in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-seven million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,600,000); and
(D)
the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Belgian Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
Page  2
in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association", when used in the General Conditions, means the 
International Development Association, acting as Administrator of the Belgian Grant, 
except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Section 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b)
the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
when used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Belgian Grant Agreement", 
"Belgian Grant" and "Belgian Grant Account" respectively;
(c)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01 and 8.01 
(a), the second sentence of Section 5.01 and Article XII are deleted;
(d)
in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association, acting in its own capacity;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date, as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Project, the performance by the Recipient and 
the 
Administrator of their respective obligations under the Belgian Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Belgian Grant."; and
(f)
the term "CFAF" means the currency of the Recipient.
ARTICLE II
The Belgian Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred million Belgian Francs (BF 100,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Belgian Grant may be withdrawn from the Belgian 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Recipient and the Administrator.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Particulars Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time to time, 
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program and the Recipient’s arrangements to monitor such progress.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator, for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods required under the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  3
Belgian Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices, the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Belgian Grant:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Designation of Administrator
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution and shall 
continue in effect until the Belgian Grant has been fully disbursed.
Section 4.02. In the event that Belgium or the Bank decide to terminate the 
functions of the Bank as Administrator pursuant to the Arrangement, the Administrator 
shall notify the Recipient promptly of the date on which Belgium shall assume the 
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister, for the time being responsible for Finance of the 
Recipient, is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Page  4
Ministry of Finance
Rue Charles Laine
Dakar
Senegal
For the Administrator:
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development and
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI)or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Papa Ousmane Sakho
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Belgian Grant
By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
