Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7572-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social and Fiscal National Identification System Project 
–Phase II) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 13, 2009  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7572-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 13, 2009, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (
“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower, through 
CNCPS,
 shall carry out the Project, with the 
assistance of the Participating Provinces, Participating Municipalities and Participating 
Public Agencies pursuant to the corresponding Operational Agreements, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower, through CNCPS, and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through CNCPS, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV —TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on January 8, 
2010.  
Page  4
-3- 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. T
he
Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086AAB, Buenos Aires 
 Argentina 
Cable address:   
  
       Telex: 
      Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA       121942-AR   (5411) 4349-8815 
 Baires 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Carlos Rafael Fernández 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to identify social and/or fiscal attributes of physical 
persons and legal entities in Argentina, through a sustainable information exchange system aimed 
at improving the efficiency, effectiveness and impact of social services and fiscal programs at the 
federal, provincial and municipal levels. 
 
The Project constitutes the consolidation of the second part of the second phase, and the 
third phase, of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1
:
Institutional and Legal Framework
(a) (i) 
Strengthening of SINTyS’ institutional framework, through, 
inter alia
:
(A) the 
definition of its organizational, operational, human resources and budgetary 
needs, and the design of the necessary legal norms to meet said needs; (B) the 
design and implementation of mechanisms that will permit SINTyS to coordinate 
initiatives with other Borrower agencies which have functions and 
responsibilities complementary to SINTyS, so as to clarify responsibilities, 
eliminate duplication, promote task-sharing, and achieve other positive synergies 
amongst the same; (C) the establishment of advisory bodies with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (which structure shall 
include representatives at the federal, provincial and/or municipal levels), and 
consultation mechanisms to support the dialogue and exchange of ideas among 
Participating Public Agencies in areas that are critical to SINTyS’ sustainability, 
such as data quality and exchange of information, technological framework, 
information security, priority plans, and monitoring and evaluation; (D) the 
design of institutional arrangements that will set forth the responsibilities and 
prerogatives of Participating Public Agencies as providers and/or users of 
social/fiscal information; (E) the design and implementation of monitoring and 
evaluation mechanisms and management tools to ensure the proper operation of 
SINTyS; (F) the design and implementation of alternative financial mechanisms 
(such as, for example, the design of cost-sharing and/or cost recovery 
mechanisms) to enable SINTyS to carry out its operations; and (G) the design of 
internal control mechanisms (including the hiring of specialists on internal 
auditing, acceptable to the Bank) to audit SINTyS’ operations; (ii) if requested by 
the Borrower, and as approved by the Bank, strengthening of the technical and 
institutional capacity of the Borrower’s national control entities to carry out non-
financial audits of SINTyS’ operations; and (iii) design of a framework to 
monitor and evaluate the activities associated with the exchange of social/fiscal 
information, and to measure the impact of the services resulting from said 
exchange of information.  
 
(b) 
Strengthening of SINTyS’ legal framework, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the design of 
norms to supplement the current legislation which governs protection of
 
personal 
information; (ii) the preparation of national legislation, which, once enacted, will 
oblige all Participating Public Agencies (at the federal level): (A) to exchange 
Page  8
-7- 
 
social/fiscal information through SINTyS; (B) to provide SINTyS all relevant 
social/fiscal information; and (C) to prevent requesting social/fiscal information 
from citizens/legal entities if such information is already being collected and 
provided by the pertinent Participating Public Agency through SINTyS; (iii) the 
preparation of provincial legislation, which, once enacted, will oblige all 
Participating Public Agencies (at the provincial level): (A) to exchange 
social/fiscal information through SINTyS; (B) to provide SINTyS all relevant 
social/fiscal information; and (C) to prevent requesting social/fiscal information 
from citizens/legal entities if such information is already being collected and 
provided by the pertinent Participating Public Agency through SINTyS; and (iv) 
the preparation of supplementary legislation, which, once enacted, will 
strengthen the current national legal framework governing the use, dissemination 
and disclosure of information. 
 
(c) 
(i) Continuation of the establishment of SINTyS provincial field offices in all 
Participating Provinces for purposes of replicating the 
SINTyS’ social/fiscal 
information exchange model in said Participating Provinces (to adapt the same to 
the pertinent provincial needs), and the on-line interconnection of said model 
among the same, so as to facilitate the exchange of social/fiscal information 
among Participating Public Agencies; and (ii) expansion, on a pilot basis, of the 
SINTyS model mentioned in (i) herein in Participating Municipalities operating 
within the jurisdiction of any given Participating Province (in which a SINTyS 
provincial field office has been established, and said SINTyS model has been 
replicated to adapt the same to the pertinent provincial needs) so as to facilitate 
the exchange of social/fiscal information among Participating Public Agencies.      
 
Part 2
:
Information Management and Data Quality Framework
(a) 
Design of common data standards and formats to be adopted by Participating 
Public Agencies which exchange social/fiscal information through SINTyS.  
 
(b) 
Enhancement of the data quality of Participating Public Agencies, through, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) the carrying out of a diagnostic of the data quality exchanged through 
SINTyS; (ii) the adoption of web services and other relevant tools which will 
reduce the number of errors in data entry; (iii) the adoption of data quality 
management tools to improve the quality of said agencies’ data stock; and (iv) 
the increase of awareness on the importance of data quality, and the 
dissemination of best practices in data quality management. 
 
(c) 
(i) Design and establishment of a strategy development unit within SINTyS for 
purposes of defining the information management and quality enhancement 
frameworks; and (ii) design of the operational framework (such as the 
development of protocols, norms and mechanisms) to implement the frameworks 
mentioned in (i) herein, including the establishment of an information 
management and data-quality advisory board (with a structure acceptable to the 
Bank) to provide advice to SINTyS on the adoption of data-quality standards, 
and on the application of the corresponding compliance and enforcement of 
mechanisms. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
(d) 
Digitalization of the information, and development of the pertinent data bases, in 
selected Participating Public Agencies responsible for generating key social and 
fiscal data, such as civil registries (
Registros Civiles
), registries of legal entities 
(
Registros de Personas Jurídicas
), registries of students (
Legajos de Alumnos
)
and real estate registries (
Registros de la Propiedad
). 
 
Part 3
:
Technological Framework for Information Exchange
(a) S
trengthening of SINTyS’ information exchange technological infrastructure for 
purposes of coordinating, on a real-time basis (
tiempo real
), the information 
exchange among Participating Public Agencies, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
adoption of a service-oriented architecture; (ii) the improvement in the 
telecommunications network; (iii) the identification of the needs and 
methodologies for international certification of information technology, 
telecommunications, and processes; (iv) the implementation of the Project 
activity under Part 4 (a) (iv) of the Project; (v) the design and implementation of 
technological processes needed to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and 
quality of data exchanged in said system; (vi) the implementation of the Project 
activity under Part 1 (a) (iii) of the Project; and (vii) the provision of technical 
assistance to Participating Public Agencies required therefor. 
 
(b) 
Expansion and consolidation of SINTyS’ information exchange network in 
Participating Provinces, Participating Public Agencies and Participating 
Municipalities, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the installation of operational nodes in the 
provincial field offices mentioned in Part 1 (c) (i) of the Project, and in selected 
Participating Public Agencies (at the national level); (ii) the acquisition and 
utilization of hardware and software equipment to connect Participating 
Municipalities with said SINTyS information exchange network; (iii) the 
acquisition and utilization of hardware and software equipment to improve data 
quality of Participating Public Agencies, including the provision of maintenance 
and/or reengineering required therefor; (iv) (A) the design of a data warehouse 
facility (
sala cofre
); and (B) the establishment of the facility mentioned in (iv) 
(A) herein within SINTyS (which establishment consists of minor specialized 
rehabilitation activities/works in SINTyS’ national office), and its operation and 
maintenance thereafter in a manner acceptable to the Bank; (v) (A) the design of 
a
control center, with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to effectively monitor and evaluate 
SINTyS’ information exchange network and its operational nodes; and (B) the 
establishment of the center mentioned in (v) (A) herein within SINTyS, and its 
operation and maintenance thereafter in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
(vi) the design of an intranet system within SINTyS’ information exchange 
network, for improving internal communication and business productivity.   
 
(c) 
(i) Design of SINTyS’ web services tools which would be tailored to users’ 
needs; and (ii) preparation of proposals for the creation of web sites which would 
permit citizens to view their own data registered in the relevant Participating 
Public Agencies. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
Part 4
:
Information Security
(a) 
Establishment of an organizational structure for the long term sustainability of 
SINTyS’ information security network, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) (A) the 
enhancement of the existing information security practice, which enhancement 
consists of, 
inter alia
,
the establishment of a separate unit (with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank) to handle information 
security, and to coordinate its activities with other operational areas within 
SINTyS; and (B) the provision of technical assistance to operate said information 
security unit; (ii) the design and implementation of a multi-layered security 
support model for said information security network  to meet the various 
information security requirements at the federal, provincial and municipal levels; 
(iii) the design and establishment of a process to integrate information security 
controls; and (iv) the design of information security, risk and business continuity 
plans in respect of the security aspects of SINTyS’ information exchange system 
mentioned herein.  
 
(b) 
Development of a risk-based information security management plan, and an 
information security infrastructure, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the provision of 
technical support to SINTyS’ current information security architecture and 
framework; and (ii) the identification of all potential risks that may have an 
adverse impact on SINTyS operations, and thereafter, the design and 
implementation of a plan (acceptable to the Bank) to address and/or mitigate all 
such risks. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out of biannual external security audits under terms of reference, and in 
a
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Part 5
:
Project Management
(a) 
Strengthening of CNCPS’ operational capacity to assist the Borrower in the 
implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project, through the provision 
of technical assistance/training on administrative, financial and budget 
management, accounting, audit and procurement activities. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening of the operational capacity of: (i) Participating Provinces to 
implement SINTyS in the pertinent provincial jurisdiction; and (ii) Participating 
Municipalities to implement SINTyS in the pertinent municipal jurisdiction. 
 
(c) 
Provision of technical assistance to Participating Public Agencies in respect of 
SINTyS operations. 
 
(d) 
Carrying out of a program at the federal, provincial and municipal levels to 
disseminate the main benefits resulting from the routine exchange of social/fiscal 
information among said levels of government, and SINTyS’ role in facilitating 
such exchange of information.   
Page  11
-10- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements
A.
 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
B.
 
(a)  
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through CNCPS, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
(b)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
C. (a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and prior 
to the carrying out of any given Project activity in which the assistance of a 
Participating   Province, Participating Municipality and/or Participating Public 
Agency is required to implement said Project activity in the administrative 
jurisdiction of the corresponding Participating Province, Participating 
Municipality and/or Participating Public Agency, the Borrower, through CNCPS, 
shall: (i) enter into an Operational Agreement with the pertinent Participating 
Province, Participating Municipality and/or Participating Public Agency (as the 
case may be), on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include those set forth in the pertinent model Operational Agreement as set forth 
in the Operational Manual, and the obligation of the pertinent Participating 
Province, Participating Municipality and/or Participating Public Agency to 
undertake all necessary actions to enable the Borrower, through CNCPS, to 
comply with the pertinent obligations under this Agreement; or (ii) amend the 
Operational Agreement with the relevant Participating Province, Participating 
Municipality and/or Participating Public Agency (as the case may be) on the 
same terms mentioned in (i) herein. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall exercise its rights under each Operational 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, through 
CNCPS, and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
D. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, a Project implementation unit (the PIU) with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall ensure that the PIU is, at all times during 
Project implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by 
professional staff (including, 
inter alia
,
a
procurement specialist, and a financial 
management specialist) and administrative staff, in numbers and with terms of 
reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank.
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
E. 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall carry out the Consultants’ Program in accordance 
with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank
.
F. 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall prior to the carrying out of the minor specialized 
rehabilitation activities/works under Part 3 (b) (iv) (B) of the Project: (a) carry out an 
environmental screening of the pertinent activities/works, and if determined by the Bank, 
approve or cause to be approved, an environmental management plan or similar 
environmental instrument, acceptable to the Bank, for said activities/works (which plan 
or similar environmental instrument shall be based on the results of the pertinent 
screening mentioned herein, and the Bank’s comments on the results of said screening, if 
any); and (b) immediately after said approval, implement and/or cause to be 
implemented, the corresponding plan (or similar environmental instrument) in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
G. 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar year 
during Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said 
calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in the relevant 
annual budget in order to keep track of the corresponding expenditures incurred during 
Project implementation. 
 
H. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, may enter into an agreement (the Procurement 
Agency Agreement) with a procurement agent (with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank) under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of the procurement agent to 
assist the Borrower, through CNCPS, in the procurement of the first two 
contracts for goods and/or Non-Consultant Services to be awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding and/or National Competitive Bidding (as such 
bidding mechanisms are defined in the Procurement Guidelines). 
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall exercise its rights under the 
Procurement Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through CNCPS, shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Procurement 
Agency Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester (starting with the 
semester in which the Effective Date falls), and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than two calendar months after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
Page  13
-12- 
 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II.A.1 above, the Borrower, through  
CNCPS, shall, not later than twenty four months (24) after the Effective Date, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, a consolidated mid-term Project Report, which report shall 
include, 
inter alia,
 the progress achieved by the Borrower, through CNCPS, in the 
carrying out of the Project as of the date of said report. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through, 
CNCPS shall, not later than forty five calendar days after the presentation to the Bank of 
the report referred to in Section II.A.2 above, exchange views with the Bank (the mid-
term review) with respect to the consolidated mid-term report referred to in said Section. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through 
CNCPS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering each calendar semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.  
 All goods, works and Non-Consultant 
Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section, and in Section I.H (a) of 
this Schedule to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the 
Bank of particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
4. 
Special Provisions
.
Without limitation to other provisions in Section III.A of this 
Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, 
works, Non-Consultant Services 
and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case 
may be): 
 
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services 
(in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) standard bidding documents 
and standard requests for quotations/proposals (as the case may be), all 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall all include
,
inter alia
,
a
settlement of dispute 
provision; (ii) model bid evaluation forms, and model quotations/proposals 
evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii) model contract forms, all 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of 
goods, works and Non-Consultant Services;  
 
(c)     
after the public opening of bids for goods, works and Non-Consultant Services, 
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and 
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other 
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned with 
said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids; 
 
(d) 
after the public opening of consultants’ proposals, information relating to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations 
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not 
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract award 
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). In 
addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned with said 
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’ 
proposals; 
 
(e)    
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a 
representative in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine 
suppliers, contractors or consultants; 
 
(f)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of 
bids and proposals of all goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ 
services, as the case may be, shall be published in the web page of the 
Borrower’s Office of National Procurement (
Oficina Nacional de 
Contrataciones
)
in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be 
counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of the 
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid 
opening;  
Page  15
-14- 
 
(g) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods, works 
and Non-Consultant Services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding 
procedures; 
 
(h) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
the Borrower, through CNCPS, in determining if the bidder in respect of goods 
whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability 
and resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in the bid, as 
referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement 
Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement 
Guidelines (including the limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to 
contracts for goods to be procured under National Competitive Bidding 
procedures;  
 
(i) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
contract award; 
 
(j) 
the Borrower, through CNCPS, 
shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible 
Procurement Plans Execution System (SEPA) with the information contained in 
the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days after such Project has been approved 
by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least every six months, or as 
required by the Bank, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and 
progress and shall supply the SEPA with the information contained in the 
updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 
 
(k) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts for goods to 
be procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures;  
 
(l) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities; 
 
(m) 
contracts of goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall not be awarded to 
the “most convenient” bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined: (i) to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the lowest 
evaluated bid, provided that said bidder has demonstrated to the Borrower, 
through CNCPS, to be qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily; and 
 
(n) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the 
contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with 
the proceeds of the Loan.  
Page  16
-15- 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services
.
The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non-Consultant Services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consulta
nts’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in 
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants  
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
Page  17
-16- 
 
the Bank shall
 specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods  
 
11,329,700 
           100% 
(2) Works under Part 3 (b) 
(iv) (B) of the Project 
 
200,000 
           100% 
(3) Consultants’ services 
under the Project: 
 
(a) provided by a firm 
 
(b) provided by individual 
consultants 
 
1,190,000 
 
3,772,000   
 
100% 
(4) Non-Consultant Services, 
Training and Operating Costs 
under the Project 
 
1,969,000 
           100% 
(5) Refund of the Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
1,489,300 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General 
Conditions 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
50,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
(7) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Collars 
 
0
Amounts payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
                20,000,000 
 
Page  18
-17- 
 
For purposes of this table: 
(a)  
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower, through CNCPS, as approved by the Bank on 
the basis of an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable 
transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training 
registration fees, and rental of training facilities and equipment, all under the 
Project; and  
(b)  
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an 
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been 
incurred by the PIU absent the Project, for transportation and per-diem costs of 
the PIU’s staff, Project administration costs (excluding office rent), operation and 
maintenance of office equipment, including non-durable goods, but excluding 
salaries. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2008 (but 
in no case more than one year prior to the date of this Agreement) for Eligible 
Expenditures for Categories (1) through (4) provided that the pertinent 
obligations and/or conditions set forth in this Agreement, as applicable to the 
relevant Eligible Expenditure, have been complied with or met.  
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
Page  19
-18- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September  15, 2013  
 
through March 15, 2038 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
Page  20
-19- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  21
-20- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions. 
 
1.  
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. “CNCPS” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de Coordinación de Políticas Sociales
,
the 
Borrower’s National Council of Coordination of Social Policies established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree 357/02 of February 21, 2002 (duly published in the Borrower’s 
official gazette (
Boletín Oficial
)
on February 22, 2002, as such Decree has been amended 
to the date of this Agreement), or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
4.  
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Consultants’ Program” means CNCPS’ program dated May 16, 2008 set forth in the 
Operational Manual, which describes the number of consultants to be hired under the 
Project, and the source of financing of the same (including the percentage of financing by 
said source) during Project implementation.  
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
7. 
“Non-Consultant Services” means services under the Project, which services shall be bid 
and contracted on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs
.
8. 
“
Operational Agreement” means: (a) each agreement signed prior to the date of this 
Agreement by the Borrower, through CNCPS with a Participating Province, a 
Participating Municipality or a Participating Public Agency for purposes of, 
inter alia
,
establishing an on-line interconnection with SINTyS; or (b) each agreement to be signed 
by said parties after the date of this Agreement for that same purpose, as the case may be.
 
9. 
 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated May 16, 2008, acceptable to 
the Bank, which sets forth, 
inter alia
:
(a) the structures, functions and responsibilities of 
the PIU; (b) the terms of the model Operational Agreements; (c) the Consultants’ 
Program (as defined above); (d) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (e) 
the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) the Financial Statements; (f) the terms of reference 
for carrying out the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(g) the Project indicators (including the results framework); and (h) the Project 
disbursement and procurement procedures, as said manual may be updated and/or 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
 
Page  22
-21- 
 
10. 
“Participating Municipality” means any political subdivision of any of the Borrower’s 
political subdivisions, as per title Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution, which has 
adhered to SINTyS (as defined below).
 
11. 
“Participating Province” means any political subdivision of the Borrower, as per title 
Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution, which has adhered to SINTyS (as defined 
below). 
 
12. 
“Participating Public Agencies” means any federal, provincial and/or municipal public 
administrative agency or administrative legal entity (as the case may be) which generates 
social/fiscal information, and has adhered to SINTyS (as defined below).  
 
13. 
“PIU” means the unit referred to in Section I.D (a) of this Agreement, or any successor 
thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Agency Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.H (a) of 
this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated May 
16, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Program” means the program designed to develop a social and fiscal national 
identification system, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated March 18, 1999 from 
the Borrower to the Bank, as such Program has been updated for purposes of the Project, 
through the letter dated June 11, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank. 
 
18. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement 
signed, on behalf of the Bank, on January 2, 2008, and, on behalf of the Borrower, on 
April 23, 2008. 
 
19. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System.
 
20. “SINTyS” 
means 
the 
Sistema de Identificación Nacional Tributario y Social
 , the 
Borrower’ Social and Fiscal National Identification System, created pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 812/1998 of July 13, 1998 (duly published in the 
Borrower’s official gazette (
Boletín Oficial
)
on
July 16, 1998), and ratified by Article 32 
of the Borrower’s Law No. 25345 of October 19, 2000 (duly published in the official 
gazette on November 14, 2000).
 
