 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14668

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/14/2015

               Country: Argentina
             Project ID: P101171                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Ar Soc&fisc Ntl Id Sys        Project Costs (US$M):                      28.03                19.98
                         Ii
  L/C Number:            L7572                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       20.00                19.98
      Sector Board:      Public Sector                Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Governance
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  07/10/2008
                                                               Closing Date:               12/31/2013         12/31/2014
           Sector(s):      Central government administration (49%); Public administration- Other social services
                           (49%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
          Theme(s):        Social safety nets (40% - P); Administrative and civil service reform (35% - P); Tax policy
                           and administration (20% - S); Law reform (5% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Iradj A. Alikhani          Clay Wescott            Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    This is the second phase of a three-phased Adaptable Program Lending (APL) which was reduced to two
    following the combination of the second and third phase. According to the Loan Agreement (LA) the project
    development objectives (PDO) were to: “identify social and/or fiscal attributes of physical persons and legal
    entities in Argentina, through a sustainable information exchange system aimed at improving the efficiency,
    effectiveness and impact of social services and fiscal programs at the federal, provincial and municipal levels
    (p.6).”

    Two specific objectives are listed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), in line with the decision to
    consolidate phases 2 and 3:

         to expand and consolidate the network underlying the exchange of social and fiscal information among
          public agencies at the national, provincial, and municipal levels of government, with provisions to ensure
          data protection, quality and accuracy of exchanged information; and assure access to information to
          authorized users.
         to consolidate the institutionalization of the Social and Fiscal National Identification System Project II
          (SINTyS) as an independent national entity responsible for coordinating and setting standards governing the
          exchange of information within Argentina’s public sector (p.14).

    The objective of the overall program supported by the APL is not explicitly cited in the LA but the program itself is
    defined as “program designed to develop a social and fiscal national identification system” (LA p.21, para.17).
    This is clarified further in the PAD which states (para. 21) that “The objective of the proposed operation, which is
    the same as the original objective of the SINTyS’ adaptable program loan (APL), is to identify social and/or fiscal
    attributes of physical and legal persons in Argentina,

    This Review will use the formulation of the objectives in the loan agreement as the basis for assessment of the
   project.



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

   The operation consisted of five components (PAD section 5):

   1.   Institutional and Legal Framework (original cost US$1.56 million and final cost US$1.09 million):

        This component provided support to SINTyS authorities to further develop and implement the institutional
        and legal framework required to ensure SINTyS ' permanent institutionalization within Argentina's public
        sector at the national, provincial, and municipal levels.

   2. Information Management and Data Quality Framework (original US$6.75 million and final cost US$1.10
   million)

        This component focused on further strengthening SINTyS’ information management, with a particular
        emphasis on enhancing the quality of the data being exchanged under the system.

   3. Technological Framework for the Information Exchange (original cost US$12.69 million and final cost
   US$11.94 million):

        This component supported the expansion and institutionalization of information exchange to: (a) eliminate
        barriers to information exchange among participating institutions by continuing the implementation and
        financing of nodes at the national and provincial levels; and (b) assist municipalities participating in the
        system with technical assistance and targeted financing for software and hardware.

   4.   Information Security (US$6.31 million and final cost US$4.86 million):

        This component supported the further development and implementation of a robust information security
        architecture and framework to ensure that SINTyS can run operations safely and reliably. It also helped
        ensure that constitutional guarantees for the privacy and confidentiality of individual information exchanged
        under SINTyS are preserved and protected.

   5.   Project Management (US$0.67 million and final cost US$0.94 million):

        This component provided the administrative, financial and budget management, accounting, audit,
        procurement and other services support needed for project implementation.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Original project costs were estimated at US$28.03 million of which US$20 million was financed by an IBRD loan
   that also covered the front-end fee of US$50,000 (Implementation Completion Report, ICR, Annex 1). The loan
   was fully disbursed, except for US$20,000 that was cancelled at closing. According to project accounts final
   project costs were US$19.98 million. However, this figure ignores Government contributions. After approval, the
   Government modified/improved the approach towards this project. Initially conceived as an enclave operation,
   the Government mainstreamed it into its budget as part of a broader public expenditure program. As a result,
   counterpart funding was provided in cash and in kind (primarily staff) through the budget, but not through the
   project accounts. The ICR notes that there were savings on some expenditure – these savings are not quantified.


   The project was approved on 07/10/08 and became effective on 02/27/09 following receipt of legal opinion (PAD
   para. 25). The mid-term review took place on 05/02/11, four weeks earlier than planned. It paved the way for a
   relatively minor project restructuring on 09/06/11 involving changes to intermediate indicators and the reallocation
   of loan proceeds. The project closed as planned on 12/31/13.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial. The project was in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2006-8 that was in place at
   time of approval. The ICR does not make any reference to Bank strategy at time of closing, possibly because the
   Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) Progress Report for FY10-12 was considered stale. That CPS, which
   de-facto was in place till end-FY14, listed the project as an important part of its governance pillar and included an
   outcome indicator attributable to it. The most recent CPS for FY15-18 was approved in September 2014, 9
   months after project closing. This document continues improved governance as a priority and notes that
   “reducing gaps between these laws and their effective enforcement, however, continue to be one of the country’s
   biggest governance challenges (para. 44).” The project originally aimed to help address this disconnect and its
   objectives remain relevant.

   Improving social safety nets was a priority for Government at the time the APL was prepared (ICR paras.1 and 3)
   and the project supported this goal. Government commitment is further reflected by the fact the project was
   mainstreamed into the budget instead of remaining an enclave public investment (indirectly referenced in p.19,
   footnote 20 and confirmed by task team).




b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial. The PDO was clearly defined and relevant to the overall goals fully aligned with higher level
   objectives of the project. The APL lending instrument supporting a series of technical assistance (TA) operations
   was appropriate because the program being supported had to be implemented over a decade. However, it
   seems that a series of standalone TA operations would have also been as appropriate and effective – in practice,
   this was how the program was financed as Argentina’s IBRD allocation was insufficient when part of the second
   phase had to be funded through reallocation of an existing project and the last phases were approved with delay.

   The project’s five components supported the PDOs and the aforementioned specific objectives and were
   appropriate, as were the broad policy areas included under the project. The overall chain of logic was also
   relatively strong. The PDO indicators provided good measures of project output, outcomes and impact, with the
   exception of two PDO level indicators. The intermediate inputs (even if they were far too numerous) were closely
   associated with inputs and underpinned intended results.




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The PDO was “to identify social and/or fiscal attributes of physical persons and legal entities in Argentina.”

   Substantial. The Government made substantial progress in identifying attributes of persons and entities in terms
   of the percentage that can be uniquely identified (increased from 31 percent to the target of 92 percent), the links
   to family data (increased from 9 percent to the target of 32 percent), and a high level of confidence (increase from
   35.2 million to 39 million, exceeding the target of 38.2 million). The number of government agencies and
   programs using consistent common processes to identify entities and assets has increased from 16 to 105, well
   above the target of 38. The adoption of common processes by different agencies was a necessary but not
   sufficient condition for increased tax receipt. There is no information provided in either the PAD or the ICR
   concerning how many agencies remain outside the common process. However, according to the task team, the
   most important ones are covered.

   Turning to another dimension of the objective, the information exchange system appears to be sustainable, and
   has achieved the target of 97 percent network availability, and reduced the number of highly critical vulnerabilities
   from 2 to none. On-budget financing is a sign that necessary resources will be there for maintaining the system.
   However, information exchange standards for only 30 data types have been issued, compared to a target of 50.

   Two relevant PDO indicators were in the PAD but were not measured and monitored during implementation: (i)
   amount of incorrect benefits not awarded due to SINTyS in a given year; and (ii) increase in tax collections due to
   SINTyS in a given year. Neither one of these was measured, though there are substantial potential benefits that
    can be expected. However, the realization of these benefits also depends on factors outside the project’s
    purview, related to appropriate use of information and enforcement by agencies with which SINTyS collaborates.
    Because of technical complications, and a desire by SINTyS not to take on an auditing role, there is no verifiable
    estimate of improved targeting of benefits (cf. Section 5). Based on qualitative information, it appears that use of
    data by agencies was uneven.

    Finally, the picture emerging from the original 53 intermediate indicators is mixed: (i) 22 were fully achieved; (ii)
    20 were partially achieved; (iii) four were dropped at project restructuring; and (iv) the remaining 7 were not
    measured. Another project result not measured by indicators but worth noting is the significant reduction in time
    needed for data exchange (ICR para. 49).



5. Efficiency:

    The ICR includes a financial and economic analysis of the project. It presents calculation of fiscal impact based
    on presumed increased tax collection and reduction in incorrectly awarded benefits. Based on what is
    characterized as theoretical calculations, the benefits for 2013 alone just from removing deceased individuals
    from the registry within one month of identification are estimated at around US$160 million; i.e.; 8 times the value
    of the loan may accrue in a single year. However, the realization of these benefits was not validated by SINTyS
    or indeed any other entity, formally because the former wanted to position itself as a facilitator not as an auditor –
    related PDO indicators for the project were similarly not calculated. Political considerations may have also led to
    this situation, especially if follow-up and enforcement by agencies has been lax due in part to governance
    challenges. Therefore, while it is likely that a portion of the theoretical benefits accrued, this cannot be reliably
    quantified.

    Other factors also reflect efficient use of project resources: (i) the project was implemented as planned over four
    and half years; (ii) technological advances allowed for adoption of cost effective solutions (ICR paras. 29); and
    (iii) IBRD funding required was less than anticipated (ICR Table 1, even though lack of information on Borrower
    contribution prevents verifying whether public resources replaced part of the initially envisaged Bank financing).
    However, project management cost was higher than planned – but the amount of cost overrun was small.
    Moreover, according to information provided by the task team and in the absence of evidence in the ICR, some of
    the potential benefits are unlikely to be realized because certain agencies are not using the information provided
    by SINTyS to update their data base. This constitutes inefficient use of project resources.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                                                                   %                                     %

    ICR estimate                                                                %                                     %
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    The project had many strong points, including substantial on both dimensions of relevance, based on close links
    to Government and Bank strategy, and sound design. Efficiency is rated modest because the estimated benefits
    cannot yet be measured. Efficacy of the project is substantial, but could not be fully quantified and suffered from
    moderate shortcomings. On this basis the ICR, rates outcome as moderately satisfactory .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The ICR (section 4) assess the risks as moderate in large part because SINTyS is no longer a project and is fully
    integrated within government. Overall, it appears that project objectives, narrowly defined, will be sustainable.
   However, the ICR also notes issues characterized more medium- to long-term that are broadly in line with the
   above-mentioned risks originally listed in the PAD. These include: (i) breadth of coverage; and (ii) technological
   evolution (cloud technology). A risk that is not explicitly listed is that stakeholders will not make effective use of
   the instruments developed under the project to raise revenue and/or reduce incidences of incorrect benefits being
   paid due political and other considerations – the ICR hints at this issue by putting the emphasis on potential as
   opposed to realized benefits (para. 46, and annex 3). Also, plans for maintaining the information system includes
   national agency’s funding through the federal budget, provincial funding of provincial coordinators, and
   institutionalization of key management practices as well as recognition of SINTyS as a National Directorate. A
   risk that still exists concerns the further expansion of the system, which would not significantly affect the
   sustainability of the current system. Once these factors are considered, at this time, a moderate risk rating
   appears more appropriate.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project built on the successful first phase of the APL, the outcome of which had been rated satisfactory
   by IEG. This earlier experience appears well reflected in its design. The PAD contained detailed information
   on all aspects of the project including design and implementation arrangements. Lessons reflected in project
   design went beyond those learnt under the first phase (as summarized in PAD Table 3). The consolidation of
   the last two phases of the APL into one was appropriate. Risks were correctly identified and those within the
   project’s control were mitigated. Procurement prior review thresholds (PAD Table A8.3) appear appropriate.

   The ICR (para. 59) mentions that the project might have considered and predicted implementation challenges
   better, especially with respect to measurement of ultimate project impact, and dealt with it up-front. However,
   given the fact that some issues became apparent almost 2 years after appraisal, this should be dealt with
   during supervision. The second issue relates to the overly complex and imperfect M&E, especially
   intermediate outcomes.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank engaged in active supervision and was provided a budget in line with what was projected in the
   PAD (about US$90,000 per annum). It undertook one to two implementation support missions per year,
   including a mid-term review in 2011, and complemented these through other means, including video
   conferences to help ensure continuity in the dialogue. The Bank proactively provided procurement advice,
   especially after the arrangement with the original procurement agent was terminated. Implementation reports
   were prepared approximately twice a year (ICR datasheet, section G). With the benefit of hindsight, project
   ratings for post-project restructuring may have been overstated (highly satisfactory and satisfactory
   respectively for implementation progress and PDO) before these were realigned with the ICR’s on the last
   report.

   It is possible that optimistic ratings failed to bring out the initial issues pertaining to M&E. Indicators were
   somewhat restructured at mid-term review, but two important PDO indicators remained not measured and
   there were still too many intermediate outcomes remaining (some pertained to the mid-term review and were
   stale). According to the ICR (paras. 32 and 34) the Bank, recognizing their relevance, kept the two PDO
   indicators and continued the dialogue related to these.




  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Many aspects of Government (central and local together) performance were satisfactory. Notably, according
   to the task team, the Government’s contribution to the project was brought within the national budget.
   Government strong support was instrumental in bringing into the process a large array of stakeholders and
   institutions. Yet, the ICR correctly points out that greater proactivity by Government might have helped avoid
   shortfalls in some objectives and potential benefits not being realized and/or measured. Furthermore,
   Government was unable to fully use its convening power to ensure inter-institutional coordination (ICR para.
   27) during the first two years of the project, even though the situation improved afterwards. While not central
   to assessment of Government performance, it is worth noting that feedback on the ICR (Section 7) provided
   by the Borrower was minimal. Given these shortcomings, notably in ensuring that potential benefits are fully
   realized, Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory .


  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   SINTyS was strongly committed to the project and managed to overcome some of its inherent complexities,
   which helped ensure timely completion of activities. The agency’s proactivity is reflected in the way it took
   advantage of technological advances and successfully rolled-out provincial expansion. This helped in the
   delivery of objectives (as reflected in indicators) for which SINTyS was primarily accountable. Furthermore,
   the agency was responsible for project implementation. It produced required reports on schedule (ICR para.
   37) and there were not any fiduciary issues. Its performance was thus satisfactory.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The project was underpinned with an extensive and detailed M&E system that included 10 PDO indicators and 53
   intermediate indicators. The latter were distributed into mid-term review and end-project targets. This structure
   was in large part a legacy of the original APL design, encompassing three operations and subsequently reduced
   to two and some indicators were based on originally expected results at the conclusion of the original second
   phase (ICR para. 34). The intermediate outcomes were somewhat modified at project restructuring, in part when
   the indicator was deemed unclear and hard to measure.

   The M&E design was too complex for the purpose of the project and diverged from good practice because the
   number of indicators made it difficult to manage and focus on the most important ones (as recognized in the ICR
   para. 35). Another shortcoming was that indicators and targets were subsumed together and some baselines
   were not specified. Furthermore, in the absence of information on the universe covered, the choice of certain
   absolute targets seems vague and neither the PAD nor the ICR explained why certain targets were chosen and
   why/how these reflected satisfactory progress. While this detailed M&E may have been useful to SINTyS and/or
   Government, SINTyS had its own M&E system in place by project’s end (ICR para.37).


b. M&E Implementation:

   Information for most key indicators was collected during implementation. The central SINTyS was responsible
   for overall M&E while its field offices collected information at provincial level. The revision to intermediate
   incomes resulted in improved implementation, even though PDO indicators were not revised and rationalized.
   The implementation by SINTyS of its own M&E suggests that this activity is likely to be sustained. However, two
   key indicators on fiscal savings were not measured as planned and there was no attempt to estimate actual
   benefits through other means, such as ad hoc assessments based on a sample of institutions – the ICR only
   presents an estimate of theoretical benefits. This constitutes a modest shortcoming in M&E implementation.


c. M&E Utilization:

   M&E information was utilized by both the Bank and the Borrower to monitor progress, with some indicators being
   inputs to the mid-term review. The PAD (Table A3.1) also includes a description of planned use for project
   outcome information that is not explicitly discussed in the ICR.

   The information presented in the ICR points to mixed M&E quality, including both strong and weak aspects of
   design, implementation and use. Taking into account the fact that M&E allowed stakeholders to measure and
   attribute progress in many areas, while there was an overly complicated design and insufficient follow-up of two
   PDO outcome indicators, M&E rating is on the lower limit of the Substantial range.


M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   This technical assistance project did not trigger any safeguards and there were not any issues encountered
   during implementation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   SINTyS was responsible for financial management. There are no issues reported concerning financial
   management. An unqualified opinion was given by the auditors on the Designated Account throughout the
   project. However, the auditors between 2009 and 2011 issued a qualified opinion on the Project Financial
   Statements and the Statements of Expenditures due to the following: (i) a difference of US$52,710 was not
   properly reconciled between the Financial Statements and Client Connection under the Project Preparation
   Facility; and (ii) the interests earned by funds deposited in the project’s bank accounts should be redirected to the
   Government Treasury account in accordance with local regulations. Nature of the auditor’s qualifications did not
   indicate any material accountability issue. An issue noted in the present review concerns the fact that project
   costs cannot be estimated accurately because activities funded by Government were not quantified.

   The original project design called for United Nations' Office for Project Services (UNOPS) acting as procurement
   agent for the project in a limited way before SINTyS took over – exiting after completing two international
   competitive bids (PAD para.62). However, due to a number of factors, including delays due to UNOPS
   procedures, the Central Executing Unit (CEU) within SINTyS took over procurement responsibilities with direct
   support from Bank staff. The successful realization of the data safe room appears to exemplify this collaboration
   (ICR para. 30). The project did not encounter significant difficulties thanks to timely preparation of annual
   procurement plans. It should be noted that for much of the project procurement was rated as moderately
   satisfactory – the ICR (footnote 16) notes this without detailing the shortcomings.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   According to the task team, thanks to the internalization of the development information technology systems,
   Argentina has developed strong local capacity and know-how in the area of national identification systems. This
   is considered a positive unintended impact.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         The Government was more responsible
                                                            Satisfactory       than the Bank for shortfalls noted in the
                                                                               project, notably with respect to the full
                                                                               realization of potential benefits.

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR presents a number of relevant lessons: (1) importance of institutionalizing key functions (i.e., moving
    from enclave project approach to mainstreaming key structures within Government) as a key to sustainability;
    (2) technology-intensive projects need to be aware of new evolutions and adopt these when feasible; (3)
    proactive collaboration between the Borrower and the Bank and good mutual understanding is a key to
    successful procurement of technology products; and (4) excessive complexity in M&E needs to be avoided.

    A lesson for the review herein, somewhat related to the last lesson cited in the ICR, is that when information on
    key indicators cannot be collected due to political or other technical reasons, the Borrower and the Bank should
    pursue second-best approaches. For instance, ad hoc surveys and/or independent assessments of a sample
    of agencies might have been carried out to shed light on what percentage of potential fiscal benefits were
    realized.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The overall quality of ICR is satisfactory as by and large it provides a complete and detailed description of project
    background and implementation experience. However, the text could have been improved as follows:

         Some passages are somewhat vague, awkward and/or less than clear. For instance, the text is unclear that
          achievement of potential benefits cannot be confirmed because it cannot be demonstrated that institutions
          acted upon information shared by SINTyS to increase revenues and/or concerning non-eligible recipients.
          The ICR (para. 32) could have been more candid with respect to this point.
         Related to the above point, the report might have included a brief description of the political economy
          aspects of the project and how at time of project closing this affected the quality of collaboration between
          various agencies. For instance, as noted in a study
          :http://www.cgdev.org/doc/books/fairGrowth/fairGrowth_Chapter4.pdf, p.63, issued during the second half
          of 2000s: “there has not been collaboration between the office responsible for tax administration and the
          SINTyS project office in building a shared database of key information to cross with information on income or
          wealth taxes.”
         Discussions of strategic relevance should have make reference to Bank strategy at closing and better
          explain the importance of the project to Government, for instance as exemplified by the fact it was
          mainstreamed into the budget instead of remaining a project enclave..
         Even though there are not any significant differences between the rating in this review and the ICR’s, the
          latter appears to use a slightly different norm in ranking quality at entry and supervision, and in the
          assessment of Government performance. For example, it correctly notes that there were too many
          indicators, but does not mention that these were restructured somewhat late, too many intermediate
          indicators still remained after that, and crucially two indicators related to fiscal savings were not quantified.
          On the other hand, the ICR’s outcome rating reflects a candid assessment of achievements by the project.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
