                       PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                        July 29, 2011
                                                                           Report No.: AB6728

Operation Name                         Rwanda Poverty Reduction Support Grant 8
Region                                 AFRICA
Country                                Rwanda
Sector                                 General energy sector (20%);general public administration
                                       sector (20%);general finance sector (20%);general industry
                                       and trade sector (20%);general transportation sector (20%)
Operation ID                           P122247
Lending Instrument                     Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                            GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
Implementing Agency                    MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
                                       Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
                                       PO Box 158
                                       Rwanda
                                       Tel: (250) 577-494 Fax: (250) 577-581
                                       msin@rwanda1.com
Date PID Prepared                      July 29, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal            August 25, 2011
Estimated Date of Board                November 29, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision              A decision was taken to proceed with the appraisal of the
                                       operation.

I.      Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Poverty still affects a large part of the population in Rwanda. According to the most recent national
household survey, undertaken in 2006, 56.8 percent of the population in Rwanda lived below the poverty
line with over 90 percent of poor people living in rural areas. Overall however, the coverage and quality
of social services is steadily improving reflected in laudable achievements in the extension of the
provision of health and education services and significant progress towards the achievement of related
Millennium Development Goals.

The economy is growing at a good pace, but continues to be dependent on public investments, financed
by substantial foreign aid flows, and agriculture activity. Despite the impact of the recent global
economic crisis the average growth rate since 2008 is estimated at 7.6 percent annually and 7.5 percent in
2010. However, average growth since 2008 has remained slightly below the Economic Development and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS) target of 8 percent and much of it is driven by spending related to
aid-flows, public investments and agriculture production. Rwanda has however made impressive strides
toward addressing its development challenges in recent years, but key binding constraints to private sector
led investment and growth remain. The Government of Rwanda’s (Government) articulated long-term
vision is to transform Rwanda from a low-income agrarian economy to a lower middle-income export-
oriented economy, operating as a knowledge-based service hub by 2020. Despite Rwanda’s success in
having established a sound investment climate (Rwanda has been a consistent top reformer in Doing
Business) to support a private sector led development model, foreign direct investments remain low. The

                                                                                                         1
lack of economic infrastructure is one of the major binding constraints to increasing and diversifying
exports of goods and services and further enhancing competitiveness. Other key constraints are a
widespread capacity and skills deficit as well as continuing concerns of only partial citizen’s voice and
transparency.

The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG) series continues to anchor the Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Rwanda, the most recent of which was approved by the Board of
Executive Directors on September 26, 2008. It is the Bank’s key policy dialogue instrument and provides
a broad framework to support the reform process in Rwanda. In addition, it leverages other Bank
operations in areas supported under this series. The proposed new PRSG series represents a continuation
of support to Rwanda’s medium term development strategy, the EDPRS.
The proposed series will thus support Rwanda’s policies and institutions aimed at attaining the
sustainable growth needed to become a lower middle-income country by 2020. As the transition to a
more sophisticated economy is starting to accelerate, the focus needs to be squarely on infrastructure
development and ensuring an adequate skills base, basic structural reforms and a shift in the role of
government in relation to production. In order to translate Rwanda’s successful Doing Business indicators
into growth-promoting investments, both perception and facilitation issues need to be addressed and
transparency and accountability will need to increase at all levels. While in many areas regulatory
frameworks and monitoring mechanisms are being implemented, adequate capacity to steer a more
complex economy needs to be developed and reflect a broad number of stakeholders.
PRSG-8 proposes to continue to support the implementation of the Government’s EDPRS, within the
context of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. As the first operation in a new series, PRSG-8 in
the amount of US$90 million equivalent will provide financial support to the Government for
implementing its strategic priorities, narrowing the gap between resources available from Government’s
revenues and that available from other donor support. At the same time, the continuing realignment of this
programmatic development policy financing, to the recently adopted Government fiscal year, will
contribute further to predictability of funding. Finally, the results supported by the financing are drawn
from the Common Performance Assessment Framework (CPAF) for monitoring the EDPRS, the tool by
which Government and its development partners jointly measure progress towards the achievement of
Government’s stated strategic priorities.

II.     Proposed Objective(s)

The proposed Eight Poverty Reduction Support Grant supports the Government of Rwanda as it
implements measures to foster broad based growth. The PRSG-8 is the first of a proposed third
programmatic series of three PRSGs. It supports the Government’s second Poverty Reduction Strategy,
the EDPRS. The EDPRS covers the period 2008-2012 and describes the Government’s development
objectives following a decade of achievements in rehabilitation and reconstruction. It presents a strategy
focused on accelerating growth and human development, with an emphasis on decentralization, and a
greater role for the private sector. The EDPRS priorities are articulated through three flagship programs
aimed at promoting sustainable growth, reducing poverty and improving governance.

The program development objective is to adopt policies that facilitate increased private sector investment
and involvement and ease constraints to broad based growth. Supported reforms to increase efficiency,
transparency and accountability in the public financial system will ensure that resources are used more
efficiently and effectively to benefit all parts of the population, particularly the poor.

In close collaboration with its development partners, including the Bank, the Government has developed a
results and performance framework that is integrated into the planning and budgeting processes for
monitoring the EDPRS. The integrated results framework/monitoring system consists of three

                                                                                                        2
components: (i) a National Results and Policy Matrix, (ii) the CPAF, and the Development Partners
Assessment Framework (DPAF). It has also designed appropriate institutional settings to monitor its
implementation, in which responsibility for the overall monitoring of the EDPRS rests with the Ministry
of Finance’s Strategic Planning Unit. In addition, the Budget Monitoring and Reporting Unit reports on
spending of the budget and related outputs. This unit also ensures that the sector spending plans are
incorporated into the macro-MTEF, and budget. The Bank also works closely with these two units to
monitor spending and outputs supported by the PRSG series.

Main outcome indicators for the series are part of the CPAF and EDPRS monitoring matrix and will
comprise the following: index on business environment, score of investor perceptions, number of
households and firms with access to electricity, megawatt of electricity generated, percent of classified
district road network in good condition, mineral fertilizer used, production of key food security crops
(1,000 MT cereal equivalent), primary school completion rate, percent of employees satisfied with
performance of technical and vocational education and training, percentage of planned outputs achieved
in four selected strategic capacity building initiative priority areas, and percentage of internal audit reports
submitted.

III.        Preliminary Description

The proposed new PRSG series represents a continuation of the overall reform program supported under
PRSG4-7, as it carries on supporting the same underlying national development strategy. During the
PRSG8-10 priority will go to measures aimed at: (i) supporting the facilitation of trade and investments;
(ii) increasing access to electricity and improved infrastructure services; (iii) raising private sector
participation in the agricultural sector; (iii) increasing the quality and relevance of education to build a
skilled workforce; (iv) improving service delivery through focused and strategic civil service reform; and
(v) strengthening the management of public resources, including increasing transparency and
accountability.

The first operation in this series, PRSG-8 of US$90 million equivalent will provide financial support to
the Government for implementing priorities of its strategy, narrowing the gap between resources available
from Government’s revenues and other donor support. The continuing realignment of this programmatic
development policy financing and the recently adopted Government fiscal year will contribute to
increased predictability of funding. The proposed financing is aligned with the CPAF, which provides
indicators and policy actions based on which all budget support donors disburse their programs while also
being aligned with the dialogue between the Government and Development Partners to strengthen policy
prioritization and coordination. The first operation in the proposed new series, the PRSG-8, has the
following prior actions:


                   1.   EDPRS and CPAF Strategic Objective 1: Increased Economic Growth
                                    Prior action                                      Implementing agency
   1. Seven main border posts are connected to the customs Automated              ¾   Ministry of Commerce
      System for Customs Data++ (ASYCUDA) network                                     and Rwanda Revenue
      (CPAF action: Effectively apply all ASYCUDA modules and reinforce               Authority (RRA)
      valuation unit at customs)
   2. Results and lessons learned of a third-party evaluation of the fertilizer
                                                                                  ¾   Ministry of Agriculture
      strategy published on the Ministry of Agriculture website
                                                                                      (MINAGRI)
      (CPAF action: Publish results and lessons learned of an evaluation of the
      fertilizer strategy)
       2.    EDPRS and CPAF Strategic Objective 2: Managing Population Growth Rate and Enhancing

                                                                                                                3
                                           Population Development
   3. A District Education Management Information System (EMIS) is              ¾ Ministry of Education
      installed allowing District Education Officers and head school
      teachers to input data at District level
      (CPAF action: Roll out EMIS to districts and prepare school based roll
      out)
   4. A report with the results of a baseline employer satisfaction survey
      with Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET)               ¾ Ministry of Education
      graduates is published
      (CPAF action: Conduct employers survey to establish baseline
      information of TVET graduates and adequacy of training)
         3.  EDPRS and CPAF Strategic Objective 3: Enhanced Gains Through Good Governance
   5. Medium-term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEF) are developed and         ¾ Ministry of Finance
      applied across all sectors
      (CPAF action: Revitalize MTEF and integrate it into budget process)
   6. Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) Phase I
                                                                          ¾ Ministry of Public
      Payroll and Human Resource (HR) Modules are functional
                                                                            Service and Labor
      (CPAF action: Integrate HR and Payroll Subsystems of the IPPIS)
   7. Legislation (ministerial order) for the implementation of Audit
                                                                          ¾ Ministry of Finance
      Committees is issued
      (CPAF action: Develop and adopt proposals for the implementation of
      Audit Committees)



IV.     Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


The poverty and social impact assessment found that the proposed reforms are unlikely to adversely affect
the poor, while several prior actions have the potential to contribute to poverty reduction.

The Government is committed to understanding the distributional and poverty reducing impacts of the
reforms supported by the PRSG as well as the potential impacts of specific policy actions supported under
this operation. In general, the assessment of the poverty and social impact of the measures proposed by
the EDPRS, and supported by the PRSG is carried out in the context of Rwanda’s EDPRS monitoring
system.

A more in-depth analysis of poverty trends since 2006 is expected once the recently collected household
data from the EICV3 becomes available in mid-2012. The focus of the PRSG series is not only on central
state level reforms, but reforms which would create equal benefits for the population at decentralized
levels. Overall the operation is likely to contribute to positive poverty and social impacts as this financing,
provided to the Government for implementing priorities of its strategy, will help significantly narrow the
gap between resources available from Government’s revenues and from other donor support. This PRSG
will also contribute to macroeconomic stability and sound fiscal underpinnings, enhancing economic
growth which could in turn improve the quality of life for all segments of the population. Supported
reforms are not expected to generate concerns regarding social or livelihood impacts.

Policies supported by the PRSG-8 are not likely to cause significant effects on Rwanda's environment,
forests and other natural resources if adequately managed. On the contrary, any likely adverse effects are
expected to be minor and manageable through the existing Bank framework in place for the PRSG-8 areas

                                                                                                             4
of support. In the current PRSG series, such environmental effects may arise through measures to support
infrastructure development (including hydropower and rural road development and maintenance), and
agricultural development, particularly with fertilizer distribution.

The PRSG-8 to 10 relies on: (i) continued strengthening of the overall framework for environmental
management in Rwanda; and (ii) environmental management assessments undertaken in the context of
other Bank projects to address potential environmental concerns. Measures to support the fertilizer exit
strategy of Government to ensure sustainable fertilizer provision and agriculture productivity increases
should lead to increased use of fertilizer which will be distributed more efficiently than under the previous
governmental system, augmenting the current low level of fertilizer use. However, currently, the quantity
of fertilizer that is likely to get distributed through improved private sector involvement would be limited.


V.      Tentative financing

Source:                                                                                       ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                               0
International Development Association (IDA)                                                     90
Borrower/Recipient                                                                               0
IBRD                                                                                             0
Others (specifiy)
                                                                             Total              90

VI.     Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Birgit Hansl
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5396+304 / 250-252-591-304
Fax:
Email: bhansl@worldbank.org
Location: Kigali, Rwanda (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact: Ronald Nkusi
Title: Head of External Finance Unit, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Tel: 250-252596130
Email: ronald.nkusi@minecofin.gov.rw

VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop



                                                                                                           5
6
