Report No. PIC1700
Project Name                 Indonesia-Bali Urban Infrastructure Project (@i
Region                       East Asia and Pacific
Sector                       Other Urban Development
Project ID                   IDPE36047
Borrower                     Republic of Indonesia
Executing Agency             Directorate General of Human Settlements
(Cipta Karya), MPW
Jl. Raden Patah I/1
Jakarta, Indonesia
Tel: 62 21 739 7758
Fax: 62 21 739 7727
Principal Implementing
Agency Provincial Government of Bali
Jl. Cok Agung Tresna
Renon, Denpasar 80235
Tel: 62 361 224 632; 226 974; 235 647
Fax: 62 361 226 491
Date This PID    Prepared    May 7, 1997
Date of Last PID             January 16, 1997
Appraisal Date               January 27, 1997
Board Date                   May 6, 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Indonesia's urbanization has
accelerated during the past 15 years. Urban population has grown at
an average of nearly 6t per year, among the highest in Asia. The
1990 census reported that 55 million people (about 30t of the total
population of 190 million) are living or working in urban areas;
this figure is expected to reach 90 million by the year 2000. In
particular, population and settlements around major cities are
growing at explosive double-digit rates.
Country-wide, only about 20-25w of urban households have direct
access to piped water supply, another 15t buy drinking water from
vendors or public taps, and the rest rely on shallow wells and
sometimes on surface water courses. Surface water courses in urban
areas are almost all polluted due to inadequately treated
wastewater. Only about 40t of urban households have access to
adequate sanitation facilities. In larger cities, inadequate
industrial water supply, and liquid and solid waste disposal are
serious problems. The basic service deficiencies and degraded
environmental conditions are causing health risks among the urban
poor. Further, a substantial backlog in the maintenance of
facilities has resulted in decreased infrastructure productivity.
The main issues faced in urban infrastructure service provision
include: (a) serious infrastructure deficiencies and operations and
maintenance (O&M) backlogs; (b) lack of integration of
infrastructure investments with land management and transport



objectives; (c) weak management of water enterprises and
municipalities; (d) poor programming of design and construction
cycles; (e) complex relationships among local, provincial and
central agencies with respect to responsibilities for project and
program preparation, appraisal, financing, implementation, and O&M;
(f) shortage of trained and experienced managerial and technical
personnel; and (g) limited involvement of the private sector in
urban infrastructure.
2.      Project Objective. The objective of this project is to
improve urban infrastructure services in Bali in a sustainable
manner to meet: (i) basic needs in all important urban centers; and
(ii) the needs of growing urbanization in South Bali, as a result
of tourism and other economic activities. This objective will be
achieved through urban infrastructure investments, private sector
participation, cultural heritage conservation and institutional
strengthening.
3.      Project Description. The project has four components: (a)
urban infrastructure provision including urban roads and traffic
management, water supply, drainage and flood control, solid waste
management, sanitation and sewerage, neighborhood and market
improvement (KIP/MIIP), market development, terminals and parking
areas; (b) private sector participation; (c) cultural heritage
conservation; and (d) technical assistance and training.
4.      Project Financing. The total financing for the five-year
investment period of GOI FY1997/98 to 2001/02 is US$334.7 million,
with the Bank loan of US$110 million. GOI will contribute the
equivalent of US$162 million, and the private sector and bilateral
grants will contribute the balance.
5.      Project Implementation. The Province of Bali has been
designated as the principal implementing agency for the project.
For central GOI operational and technical coordination, and
oversight, the Directorate General of Human Settlements (Cipta
Karya or DGCK) of the Ministry of Public Works has been assigned
the role of executing agency, with the inter-ministerial
coordination team for urban development (TKPP) chaired by BAPPENAS
(National Planning Agency) providing policy guidance and sectoral
oversight. Local governments participating in the project will have
primary responsibility for implementing and monitoring all project-
related activities in their jurisdiction.
6.      Project Sustainability. Following the implementation of the
East Java Bali Urban Development Project (EJBUDP; Loan 3304 - IND)
and now the proposed operation, the medium-term planning,
programming, budgeting and implementation of urban infrastructure
at provincial and local government levels will have taken much
firmer root in Bali. Improved institutional capacity and financial
strength of water enterprises is a strong possibility, as well as
more efficient service delivery. With improved O&M, infrastructure
investments are likely to sustain expected benefits. The
implementation of the Umbrella Environmental Assessment will
heighten environmental awareness and capability. The unique
-2 -



cultural heritage component is expected to have a significant
demonstration effect and will contribute to strengthening current
government efforts through mobilization of international expertise
and greater resources.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
The Bank has financed 14 completed and 10 ongoing urban and water
supply projects in Indonesia. During the past two decades, the Bank
has provided critical support to the evolving GOI urban policy
agenda. Urban lending operations in Indonesia have progressed from
demonstration projects in Jakarta, through more programmatic
investments in other selected large cities, to sector lending
within an agreed policy and institutional framework. For a
comprehensive review of the Bank's support for urban projects in
Indonesia till the eighties, please refer to a 1995 study carried
out by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) entitled,
"Indonesia: Impact Evaluation Report, Enhancing the Quality of Life
in Urban Indonesia - The Legacy of the Kampung Improvement Program"
(Report No. 14747 - IND).
The EJBUDP, approved in 1991, and six urban projects which were
subsequently approved, represent the Bank's support to GOI in
implementing its urban policy under the integrated urban
infrastructure planning approach. The mid-term review of EJBUDP in
1994 concluded that the project had made substantial progress in
demonstrating the feasibility of decentralizing infrastructure
planning and implementation as well as mobilizing local revenues.
Many of the successful innovations developed during EJBUDP
(decentralization of urban services, integrated urban
infrastructure development, development of local government
capacities, improving local resource mobilization, improving
mechanisms for local government borrowing and grant allocations
etc.) have since been replicated in subsequent Bank urban projects
in Indonesia, as well as projects financed by other donors,
particularly Asian Development Bank.
Bank experience confirms that: (a) limited planning and
implementation capacities at the central government level, and the
inherent difficulties in providing essentially local services by
central government departments, reduce the efficiency of service
delivery; (b) capacity building at the local level is a long-term
process that needs to be accompanied by increase in local
responsibility and accountability; and (c) central-local financial
relations need to be rationalized to provide more local government
autonomy and enable greater private sector involvement.
Impact on Proposed Project. The proposed project builds on
the lessons of previous experience through its emphasis on:
continued decentralization; greater and more focused efforts at
private sector participation; increased focus on environmental
sustainability; on-going community participation; support for
capacity building on urban planning and project management; greater
financial responsibility at the local government level; financially
responsible behavior on the part of water enterprises; and O&M.
- 3 -



8.      Poverty Category. This project is not considered a poverty-
targeted intervention.
9.      Environmental Aspects. The project has been classified as
environmental category "A" under the Bank's procedures. An Umbrella
Environmental Assessment, which contains an environmental profile
of Bali, a system of environmental zoning, subproject screening
criteria and procedures, generic Terms of Reference and mitigation
and monitoring procedures for sub-projects, and recommendations for
training and institutional strengthening, has been prepared. The
Executive Summary was submitted to the Board on December 10, 1996
and is available in the PIC. An environmental management and
monitoring plan will be in operation during implementation. In
addition, a Study on Cumulative Environmental Impacts will be
carried out during the project to identify areas or sectors that
threaten Bali's environmental sustainability and recommend
appropriate steps.
10.     Social Aspects. During project preparation, the urban
community in Bali was consulted at the provincial level, district
level and urban center level through sample surveys, workshops, and
informal meetings. Special consultations were conducted with women
in seven urban centers through a random encounter survey. During
implementation, the community (both men and women) will be
consulted on an on-going basis at district and urban center levels.
As the project is being implemented on a programmatic basis,
agreement on a policy framework for land acquisition and
resettlement of project affected persons, consistent with OD 4.30,
has been reached between GOI and the Bank. Resettlement Action
Plans (RAPs) will be prepared for sub-projects involving
resettlement of affected persons. The RAPs will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank. Implementation of the approved RAPs is a
condition for disbursement for the relevant sub-projects.
11.     Program Objective Categories. The project relates to three of
the Bank's program objectives categories: environmentally
sustainable development (65%); public sector management (20%); and
private sector development (15%). The infrastructure investments,
to be executed under the first component, will be subject to
environmental screening for potential impacts to allow for
environmentally sustainable development. The provision of water,
sanitation and drainage infrastructure and the kampung improvement
components will help low income residents of urban centers in Bali.
The implementation support component will develop public sector
management capacity. The private sector participation component
will promote the potential for private sector investment that has
been identified in the various urban infrastructure sub-sectors in
Bali through targeted technical assistance.
12.     Benefits. The main benefits of the water supply sub-component
are increased availability of clean, piped water at reduced costs.
The benefits of the urban roads sub-component are improved
accessibility, savings in vehicle operating costs and increased
land and property values. The benefits of the drainage/flood
control sub-component are reduced flood damage and traffic
- 4 -



disruption, increased land values and improved health. For the
solid waste management sub-component, the benefits arising are
cleaner air and water and more efficient collection and treatment
of waste. The benefits of the sanitation and sewerage sub-component
are improved health and avoided ground water contamination. The
benefits of the KIP/MIIP sub-component are increased standards of
living for residents in low income communities. The cultural
heritage conservation component will contribute to the conservation
of Bali's unique cultural heritage. Private sector participation
will increase operational efficiencies and reduce dependence on
government funds for investment. Technical assistance support will
increase capacities of provincial and local agencies in urban
infrastructure management.
13.     Risks. The major risk is the limited capacity of the
provincial and local government institutions to address the various
issues under the project, especially in the context of
decentralized implementation. This risk will be addressed through
strong provincial and local implementation coordination agencies,
guidance and support from central government agencies, technical
assistance and training, and frequent (but brief) Bank missions
comprised of staff from the Jakarta Office.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 9, 1997.
- 5 -



