                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                   Report No: 31464-IND




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-41550 TF-29708)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$110 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                              BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                              June 28, 2005




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2004)

                                    Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
                                            Rp. 1 = US$ 9,500
                                            US$ 1 = 0.00011

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1   December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS   National Development Planning Board
BHT        Bali Heritage Trust
BPN        Land Agency
BUIP       Bali Urban Infrastructure Project
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CHC        Cultural Heritage Conservation
EA         Executing Agency
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMMP       Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
FIRR       Financial Internal Rate of Return
FRAP       Financial Recovery Action Plan
GOI        Government of Indonesia
IUIDP      Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
JBIC       Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
Kabupaten  Regency (local government)
KIP        Kampung (poor neighborhood) Improvement Program
Kota       Municipality (local government)
MIIP       Market Infrastructure Improvement Program
MIP        Municipal Innovations Project (Ln. 4440-IND)
MoF        Ministry of Finance
MoU        Memorandum of Understanding
NPV        Net Present Value
NTB        Nusa Tenggara Barat
OECF       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M        Operations and Maintenance
PBME       Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
PDAM       Local Water Utility Company (Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum)
PLN        National Electricity Company
PPCU       Provincial Project Coordinating Unit
PSP        Private Sector Participation
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
SLA        Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOCEI      Study of Cumulative Environmental Impacts
SOP        Standard Operating Procedure
TA         Technical Assistance
TAP4I-2    Second Technical Assistance Project for the Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure (Ln.
           3913-IND)
UEA        Umbrella Environmental Assessment
UKL/UPL    Environmental Management and Monitoring Action Plan
UNESCO     United Nations Education Scientific and Cultural Organization

UPP(2)(3)   Urban Poverty Project (Cr. 3210-IND); Second UPP (Ln. 4664, Cr. 3658); Third UPP (Ln. 4779,
            Cr. 4063)
UPT         One Stop-office for Issuing Permits and Certificates (Unit Pelayanan Terpadu)
WRR         Western Ring Road
WWTP        Wastewater Treatment Plant


                                   Vice President:      Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                Country Director:       Mr. Andrew Steer, EACIF
                                  Sector Director:      Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                             Task Team Leader:          Mr. George Soraya, EACIF

                                          INDONESIA
                      BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Procurement Improvement                                                 24
Annex 9. Land Acquisition Process for the Western Ring Road in Denpasar          27

Project ID: P036047                                                  Project Name: BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: George Soraya                                           TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-41550; TF-29708
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (30%); Solid waste management (30%); Flood
                            protection (15%); Roads and highways (15%); Other social services
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Municipal governance and institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/17/1995                                     Effective:                           09/04/1997
     Appraisal: 01/13/1997                                         MTR:                             07/20/2000
      Approval: 05/06/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Indonesia/Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure & Bali
                                           Province
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Mr. Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Mr. Andrew D. Steer                            Ms. Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Mr. Keshav Varma                               Mr. Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:             Mr. George Soraya                              Mr. Raja Iyer
ICR Primary Author:             Mr. Gottfried Roelke


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Province of Bali, with a population of 3.2 million, has a unique regional culture, and tourism plays a
much greater role in its economy than in any other Indonesian province. Since the 1970s, its urban
population has been growing fast, stretching urban facilities and services to their limits and resulting in
serious deficiencies. The situation was exacerbated by inadequate budgetary and organizational provisions
for operations and maintenance (O&M), insufficient revenue generation and institutional weaknesses.
Against this background the Bali Urban Infrastructure Project (BUIP) was designed, building on an
Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (IUIDP) approach used for the East Java Bali
Urban Development Project (completed 1997), and adapting it to the unique situation of Bali.

The project objectives are to: "Improve urban infrastructure services in Bali in a sustainable manner, to
meet (i) basic needs in all important urban centers and (ii) the needs of growing urbanization in South Bali,
as a result of tourism and other economic activities. This objective will be achieved through urban
infrastructure investments, private sector participation, cultural heritage conservation, and institutional
strengthening."

Assessment of Objectives

The objectives were clear, realistic, and important to the development of Bali. The project was consistent
with (a) GOI's Five-Year Plan (Repelita), which emphasized improving urban services and strengthening
local government capacity; (b) Bali's Five-Year Plan; and (c) the 1994 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
which emphasized decentralization, urban service delivery, private sector and community participation, and
environmental sustainability. It responded well to Bali's particular circumstances by focusing more on
private sector participation (PSP), cultural heritage conservation (CHC), environmental management, and
increasing the involvement of local communities and other non-governmental stakeholders. The project was
complex, but Bali is a compact province whose provincial government was relatively stronger than that of
other provinces, so the risks were deemed acceptable.


3.2 Revised Objective:

N.A.


3.3 Original Components:




                                                      - 2 -

The project had four major components: urban infrastructure, private sector participation, cultural heritage
conservation, and technical assistance and training.

Part A. Urban Infrastructure Investments ($195 million). This component was divided into seven
sub-components. The water supply sub-component included the rehabilitation of production facilities and
the installation of 620 km of new distribution pipes, and 29,400 new house connections. It was envisaged
that approximately $55 million of the required investment would be financed through private sector
participation (PSP). The urban roads & traffic management sub-component was to construct 91 km of
new roads, and rehabilitate or improve 895 km of roads. The drainage & flood control sub-component
was to construct, widen or rehabilitate 368 km of drains to alleviate flooding in 62 locations. The solid
waste management sub-component was to construct 37 ha of new waste disposal sites and increase
composting capacity to 9,000 m3 per year. The sanitation sub-component was to build or extend seven
wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) and five communal toilets. This sub-component was kept small
because another project, funded by OECF (now JBIC), was to cover most of the investment needs for
sewerage systems in Denpasar and Kuta. The KIP / MIIP sub-component was to improve 586 ha of
kampung areas and 18 markets. The programmatic terminals and parking lots sub-component envisaged
the construction of up to four terminals and/or parking lots.

Part B. Private Sector Participation ($2 million). This component supported two studies to facilitate
PSP in water supply and in solid waste management, funded from the Bank's Second Technical Assistance
Project for Public and Private Participation in Infrastructure (TAP4I-2 Ln. 3913-IND).

Part C. Cultural Heritage Conservation ($10.4 million). This component envisaged: (a) improvements
to the Besakih temple complex; (b) pilot conservation activities; (c) an inventory of historic places; (d)
strengthening conservation capacity; and (e) signboards at important sites. Details of this component were
to be further developed during implementation.

Part D. Technical Assistance & Training ($15.1 million). This component was to cover detailed design
and construction supervision, support to project management, several studies, and a substantial number of
training opportunities in-country and abroad.

Assessment of Project Design

The components were defined with a high degree of involvement and commitment of the provincial and
local governments. Responsibility for project preparation was accorded to the provincial government, a
novelty at a time when Indonesia's government was highly centralized. BUIP's design was comprehensive
and well thought-out, with the components well suited to meeting the project's objectives. Suitable
performance indicators were developed at appraisal. The inclusion of the CHC component was justified in
the specific context of Bali. The PSP component was realistic under appraisal conditions. BUIP also
provided far more training opportunities than earlier IUIDPs in order to focus even more on institutional
strengthening.

3.4 Revised Components:
Several components were added during implementation, because of the dramatically changed circumstances
in Indonesia with the on-set of the East Asian economic crisis in mid-1997. A sub-component for
labor-intensive works was added in 1998, to mitigate rising unemployment and urban poverty. In 2001,
three sub-components were added: (a) support to good governance by streamlining bureaucratic
procedures; (b) efficiency enhancing innovative service delivery, to stimulate innovations to improve local
government activities; and (c) community based poverty alleviation program, to support small-scale pilot


                                                     - 3 -

investment projects in selected villages. Following the October 2002 terrorist bombing in the Kuta area,
BUIP's geographic scope was expanded to include Nusa Tenggara Barat (NTB), the province just to the
east of Bali, whose economy also relies heavily on tourism, to help cushion the immediate effects of the
bombing on its economy.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated highly satisfactory: the project had a clear, logical, and comprehensive objective,
and was supported by well defined components. The major sub-projects were thoroughly appraised with
much attention to detail. The technical assistance activities were well designed, linking them closely to
project objectives. An annual evaluation and review mechanism was established.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviewed BUIP at entry and rated it "excellent", and accorded it the
highest rating in all categories.

Risk Assessment

Internal risk. The appraisal correctly assessed risks relating to institutional and operational aspects,
procurement, construction and financing as either moderate or low. The project was thus sufficiently
resilient to be able to absorb the impact of the unanticipated external risks discussed next.

External risks. The appraisal assumed, based on the CAS and generally accepted forecasts, that the
country's economic growth, its social and political stability, the security situation, and investor confidence
would continue. Indonesia's deep economic, financial, political and social crises, trigerred by the East
Asian economic crisis, were not anticipated by the Bank.

Safeguard Policies

Environment. BUIP was classified an Environmental Category "A" project, and a comprehensive
Umbrella Environmental Assessment (UEA) was carried out. The UEA was the first instance of public
consultation on a project environmental assessment in Indonesia, engaging a wide variety of stakeholders.
The environmental management and monitoring procedures and arrangements presented in the UEA were
later consolidated in the BUIP Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP), which also
established environmental Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) that were to be included in each work
contract. (BUIP's EMMP essentially built the environmental planning function into the project, and was
used by GOI as a model for subsequent infrastructure projects). The BUIP UEA is included in the Bank
environment data base as "best practice".

Social. During project preparation key stakeholders were extensively consulted. In order to avoid the
adverse impacts of development, especially given Bali's unique culture heritage, the project included a
component to promote conservation and management of CHC. To address the project's needs for land
acquisition and resettlement, a policy framework for land acquisition and resettlement of project affected
persons, in accordance with OD.4.30, was adopted by the Government (see also Annex 9).


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of BUIP's objective is rated satisfactory, especially in the context of significant changes
in the economic, political, social, and fiscal circumstances in the country from the start of project
implementation. The planned physical investments were successfully implemented, as were the additional



                                                       - 4 -

components to alleviate poverty and improve governance; the institutional impacts were positive; however,
the changed country circumstances adversely impacted the full implementation of PSP and the CHC
program.

The urban road improvements reduced vehicle operating costs, congestion and pollution. Similar benefits
were obtained from the improved traffic terminals. Drainage sub-projects reduced flooding, property
damage and disruptions in the local economy. The KIP and labor-intensive works sub-projects
significantly improved living conditions, especially for the urban poor. Sanitation and wastewater
management sub-projects reduced pollution in surface and groundwater. Community participation was
significantly higher than in comparable projects in Indonesia. Significant institutional strengthening was
achieved in procurement and land acquisition (see Annexes 8 and 9 respectively).


4.2 Outputs by components:
The following table gives ratings for outputs and outcomes for the project components.

   Component, Sub-Component                              Output Rating               Outcome Rating
   Part A: Physical Infrastructure                       Satisfactory                Satisfactory
     Water Supply                                        Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
     Urban Roads & Traffic Management                    Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory
     Drainage & Flood Control                            Satisfactory                Satisfactory
     Solid Waste Management                              Marginally Satisfactory     Marginally Satisfactory
     Sanitation                                          Satisfactory                Satisfactory
     KIP / MIIP / Market Development                     Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory
     Terminals & Parking Areas                           Satisfactory                Satisfactory
     Labor Intensive Projects                            Satisfactory                Satisfactory
  Part B: Private Sector Participation 1/                Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  Part C: Cultural Heritage Conservation                 Satisfactory                Satisfactory
  Part D: Technical Assistance & Training                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
     Technical Assistance                                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
     Training                                            Satisfactory                Satisfactory
     Innovative Service Delivery                         Satisfactory                Satisfactory
   Part E: Community Based Poverty Alleviation Highly Satisfactory                   Highly Satisfactory

1/ BUIP delivered the planned outputs but the envisaged outcome was not achieved.

Part A. Urban Infrastructure Investments

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory.

Urban Roads & Traffic Management. This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. Approximately
1,006 km of roads were built, widened or rehabilitated, encompassing all road sections included in the
original project scope. Forty-five percent of Bali's road network is now in good condition against the
38% targeted in the PAD.

Water Supply. This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory. The appraisal had envisaged that investments
in the water supply sector would be funded through on-lending to the participating water companies
(PDAMs) and through PSP. Implementation of an agreed Financial Recovery Action Plan (FRAP) was a
precondition for participating PDAMs being able to utilize loan funds. However, because of the economic
crisis, these PDAMs could not raise their tariffs to generate funds required to service their existing debt
with the Ministry of Finance. In view of this, the FRAPs were not fully implemented and the allocated loan
funds were not utilized. Nevertheless, local governments made funds available from their own development



                                                           - 5 -

budgets to finance the installation of approximately 43,200 new house connections (compared to 29,400
estimated at appraisal) and 97 km of new pipes (against 620 km estimated at appraisal). Most of the
PDAMs have now implemented the FRAPs and thus have improved their financial condition; with the
current more conducive economic and political environment, their financial condition will continue to
improve.

Drainage & Flood Control. This sub-component is rated satisfactory, with approximately 395 km of
drains rehabilitated, slightly exceeding the PAD target of 368 km. The number of major annual floods, 22
per year, dropped below the PAD target of 25 per year.

Solid Waste Management. This sub-component is rated marginally satisfactory; BUIP provided 30
additional ha of final waste disposal sites (81% of the PAD target) and created a composting capacity of
approximately 38,000 m3 of solid waste per year (95% of PAD target). The plan to construct a new
landfill site in south Bali, to be jointly operated by several local governments, possibly with PSP, was
eventually abandoned in favor of a more advanced solid waste management system, which has now been
launched with PSP.

Sanitation. This sub-component is rated satisfactory. Thirty-five communal toilets were built, far more
than the PAD target of five, but only four wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) were constructed
compared to the PAD target of seven. The OECF-funded conventional sewerage scheme for Denpasar and
Kuta is on-going, as envisaged at appraisal.

KIP/MIIP. This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory, with 873 ha of kampung areas improved,
against the PAD target of 586 ha. Under the market development sub-component, two new markets were
constructed and nine additional markets were improved; the PAD target was to build two new markets and
improve another 16.

Terminal & Parking Areas. This programmatic sub-component is rated satisfactory. It provided three
transport terminals (at Gianyar and Karangasem, and a regional terminal at Gilimanuk, the ferry port to
Java), against the target of up to four.

Labor-Intensive sub-Projects. This sub-component is rated satisfactory. About 200,000 person-days of
employment were provided under the initial fund allocation; a further allocation 1999 and 2000 helped
generate 320,000 person days of employment. Labor intensive works in NTB supported improvement of
about 100 km of roads, and improvement or construction of 44 km of drains.

Part B. Private Sector Participation (PSP)

This component, funded from TAP4I-2, is rated marginally satisfactory. BUIP delivered the two
envisaged studies as outputs, but the desired outcome in the form of PSP was achieved only in solid waste
management.

PSP in Water Supply. This sub-component is unsatisfactory because the desired outcome of mobilizing
private sector funding was not achieved, even though BUIP satisfactorily delivered the expected output of a
study. The main reason for this unsatisfactory outcome was Indonesia's unforeseen economic crisis, which
weakened the PDAMs and severely reduced their attractiveness for PSP; in addition, the economic crisis
had a strong negative impact on PSP in infrastructure in general. Nevertheless, the project has fostered a
spirit of cooperation among the PDAMs, and the provincial and local commitment to continue the process
remains strong. The January 2005 Indonesia Infrastructure Summit confirmed GOI's strong commitment
to PSP in water supply; this augers well for achieving PSP in water supply in Bali in the next few years.



                                                       - 6 -

PSP in Solid Waste Management. The implementation of this sub-component was satisfactory. In 2001
the local governments of Denpasar, Badung, Gianyar, and Tabanan jointly established a new solid waste
management organization. This organization selected an international firm (on the basis of a competitive
tender) to operate the waste processing facility for 20 years. Construction of the facility started in
February 2005.

Part C. Cultural Heritage Conservation

The implementation of CHC is rated satisfactory. The project was able to deliver most of the loan funded
sub-projects and some additional activities. BUIP supported: (a) the rehabilitation of the Taman Ujung
Palace in Karangasem; (b) the establishment of the Bali Heritage Trust (BHT) in 2003, as a new
permanent body to spearhead the systematic management and conservation of Bali's cultural assets; (c) the
preparation of a plan to upgrade the Besakih temple complex and its environs; (d) the compilation of an
inventory of historic places; (e) the revitalization of the historic town center of Singaraja; (f) the securing of
an important archaeological site in Gilimanuk; (g) other pilot conservation activities; and (h) study tours to
Australia, Europe, and the USA.

As a result of the economic crisis and the unsettled political conditions in Indonesia from 1998, the
envisaged contributions from the private sector and international donors did not materialize.

Part D. Technical Assistance & Training

The achievements under the TA and training component are satisfactory. All 19 TA packages envisaged
at appraisal were provided. The Government and the Bank systematically monitored the outputs and
impact of each TA package during implementation. All packages had satisfactory outputs and the majority
also had a positive impact.

BUIP provided 649 training opportunities in urban management and in environmental management,
including: seven PhD courses abroad; five Masters courses abroad; 98 Masters courses in Indonesia; 45
other formal training courses abroad; and 494 other formal training courses in Indonesia. Government and
the Bank carefully monitored the implementation of the training component to confirm that it had the
desired impact. Beneficiaries of these training opportunities have strengthened infrastructure planning and
implementation at the national level and in Bali.

Part E. Community Based Poverty Alleviation Program

The achievements of this component are rated as highly satisfactory. 335 villages received grants of
approximately $11,000 each, to: (a) provide small infrastructure for poor neighborhoods; (b) promote
income-generating activities; and (c) set up revolving funds for such activities. The component benefited
about half of Bali's poor.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

An EIRR was computed for all major urban road and drainage sub-projects. For major urban roads, the
appraisal projected an EIRR of 18.8%; the actual EIRR at completion is 24%. For major drainage
sub-projects, the appraisal projected an EIRR of 15.9%; the actual at completion is 18%. See Annex 3 for
details.




                                                       - 7 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The PAD estimated the FIRR of the planned water supply projects. As the water supply component was
not implemented as appraised, the FIRR on completion has not been computed.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
BUIP's institutional development impact is rated substantial.

BUIP supported the development of provincial capacity to manage the preparation and implementation of
this project in a very successful manner, despite the economic and political crisis. BUIP successfully
pursued significant reforms in procurement and achieved a very high degree of transparency,
competitiveness, and efficiency. Improvements initiated in BUIP contributed significantly to the
preparation of Presidential Decree No. 80/2003 on Procurement (see Additional Annex 8). BUIP
supported training for government staff developed institutional capacity at national, provincial and local
levels. Capacity for O&M improved after the decentralization law was promulgated, and after the
introduction of the 2003 performance-based budgeting system.

A new institution, funded jointly by four local governments in the greater Denpasar area, was established to
manage the solid waste management needs on a regional basis. The Bali Heritage Trust, established under
the project, has enhanced capacity for heritage conservation in Bali.

BUIP significantly strengthened the provincial capacity for environmental management through extensive
training for provincial and local staff, consultants and contractors, as well as by providing the provincial
environmental agency a strong role in implementing the environmental management and monitoring plan.
The project also promoted community participation in planning and implementation, especially through the
labor-intensive works program, the community-based poverty alleviation component, and the development
planning in Kuta.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

BUIP was severely affected by several crises. Indonesia's economic crisis, which began around the time
when BUIP became effective in September 1997, had a profound effect on project implementation. The
Rupiah depreciated by over 300% in a matter of months, and domestic inflation exceeded 50% per annum.
The events of September 11, 2001 triggered a worldwide downturn in tourism, which severely affected
Bali's economy. Finally, the October 12, 2002 terrorist bomb blast in Bali's famed Kuta area, which
resulted in over 200 deaths, brought Bali's tourism sector to near-collapse and ravaged the provincial
economy.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Central Government Restructuring. The Ministry of Public Works, the Executing Agency, was
restructured twice as a result of the political changes in Indonesia. Five different directors general and four
different directors had responsibility for BUIP over its life. These disruptions delayed work program
approvals and resulted in a loss of continuity.




                                                      - 8 -

Impact of Decentralization. The Government enacted a major decentralization law in 1999 and its
implementation started in 2001. The transition period affected project implementation as the local
governments temporarily shifted their focus to internal administrative restructuring. This resulted in
sudden changes in staff who were familiar with the project. The fiscal decentralization affected fund flow
arrangements and adversely impacted timely availability of counterpart funding.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Land Acquisition. Land acquisition was a major issue for the Western Ring Road. This was successfully
addressed through extensive community consultation, which increased social acceptance of the outcome;
however, the process was time consuming and delayed implementation.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at $278 million, with an IBRD Loan of $110 million. At
project closing, the total project cost was estimated at US$104.7 million, or about 31% of the original
estimate. The significant cost underrun was due to: (a) the devaluation of the Rupiah from Rp 2,331 to the
dollar at appraisal, to Rp 9,500 to the dollar at project close; (b) deletion of the large water supply
component ($83.6 million); and (c) significant savings due to improved procurement practices (as described
subsequently). After cancellations amounting to $36.03, the final Loan amount was $73.97 million, of
which $72.13 was disbursed (see Annex 2).

During implementation, there was a significant shift between the amounts on-lent to local governments and
the amounts passed on as grants. Because of the impact of the crisis on the finances of local governments,
as well as the changes in regulations regarding local government borrowing, the central government passed
on all but about $1 million of the Bank loan to the local governments as a grant.

Loan Closing Date Extensions. BUIP required three extensions: the original closing date of December
31, 2002 was first extended to December 31, 2003 to complete on-going major sub-projects (e.g., Western
Ring Road), and to implement a program of emergency works to rehabilitate bomb-damaged infrastructure
in the Kuta area and to extend the community-based program to Kuta. The second extension (to June 30,
2004), and the third and final extension (to September 30, 2004), were required to complete and hand-over
these and other remaining works.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
BUIP's overall sustainability is rated as likely. The physical facilities created, such as roads, drains, etc.,
will be maintained by the respective local governments. With the introduction of the performance-based
budget system, adequate funds will be allocated for operations and maintenance. Project supported
technical assistance and training have developed the capacity of the various government departments and
agencies. Procurement procedures used in BUIP have been mainstreamed into relevant GOI regulations, as
indicated earlier. Procedures for community participation were built on traditional Balinese community
based organizations, and are sustainable. Financial arrangements are in place to sustain the operations of
new entities established under the project, i.e., the regional solid waste agency and the Bali Heritage Trust.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project was implemented by existing organizations under the regular provincial and local government
structure. Responsibility for regular operations will remain with these organizations.



                                                       - 9 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in project identification was highly satisfactory. The project concept is
consistent with GOI policies and the CAS, and builds on experience from other on-going IUIDP projects, in
particular the East Java Bali Urban Development Project. It takes into account Bali's unique cultural and
environmental features, and prospects for PSP.

The Bank's performance in preparation assistance was highly satisfactory. The Bank strongly supported
the Government decision to have Bali province lead project preparation, which not only increased
ownership of the project at provincial and local levels, but also significantly reduced project preparation
time compared to earlier IUIDP projects.

The Bank's performance at appraisal was highly satisfactory. The appraisal team included all the
necessary expertise, and had a good balance of field-based and international staff. It confirmed that the
project had a clear and achievable objective, the necessary components and inputs, as well as appropriate
monitoring indicators. The team's appraisal of project design, institutional capacities, political
commitment, the financing instruments, and the necessary safeguards and fiduciary measures was
thorough. The loan was negotiated six weeks after appraisal mission departure. The appraisal did not
anticipate the economic crisis that hit East Asia and Indonesia six months later; this was consistent with the
regional and country risk assessments in early 1997.

Overall, the Bank's performance in lending was highly satisfactory (see also section 3.5 on quality at
entry).

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory. In addition to implementation of the investment
program, supervision focused on development effectiveness, and fiduciary and safeguard aspects. Bank
supervision also strongly supported the introduction of improved bidding processes and the innovative land
consolidation approach to land acquisition. The Bank responded quickly to the impact of the economic
crisis by agreeing to amend the loan agreement to: (a) introduce a labor intensive small works component;
(b) community based poverty alleviation programs; and (c) extend the geographic scope to NTB province.
The Bank also worked closely with government to cancel loan savings.

Supervision was task managed from headquarters for the initial start-up period, but was subsequently
transferred to the field in March 1999; however, the former task manager remained a member of the task
team and ensured a smooth transition. Field management of the project enabled the Bank to respond
quickly to the impact of the economic crisis and work with Government on loan amendments and
cancellations.

A QAG panel assessed BUIP supervision until after the MTR to be highly satisfactory overall, as well as in
each of the major parameters.




                                                    - 10 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance in BUIP was satisfactory: the project's quality at entry was excellent, and
the strong performance during supervision enabled the project to be completed satisfactorily despite the
unprecedented economic, political and social crises in Indonesia.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in project preparation was highly satisfactory: the project was identified as a
logical extension of earlier IUIDP projects, tailored to Balinese conditions. The central government
decentralized responsibility for project preparation, while continuing to support the province with
appropriate guidance at crucial stages, e.g., pre-appraisal, appraisal.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The central government's performance in project implementation was satisfactory. It actively supported
decentralized project management at the provincial level, by limiting its own role to providing overall policy
guidance. The Executing Agency ensured that the quality of implementation was good. MoF and the
National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS) responded quickly to the needs of BUIP, by
approving additional components, closing date extensions and cancellations in a timely manner. However,
MoF's consistent and significant delays in the release of budget funds slowed implementation of BUIP.
MoF was also slow in replenishing the Special Account.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies, especially the Provincial Project Coordination Unit
(PPCU), was highly satisfactory. The provincial government and the local governments shouldered almost
the entire responsibility for implementing the project. Most of the appraised sub-projects were completed
before the original loan closing date of December 31, 2002. However, in order to utilize the significant
loan savings, the program was expanded to include other components and additional sub-projects. The
outstanding performance of the implementing agencies on procurement and financial management was
acknowledged by a Bank-appointed, independent auditor who stated: "We find that overall the Bali Urban
Infrastructure Project (BUIP) is the best-performing project with very little deviation in either procurement
or financial management." (Procurement Post Audit and Financial Audit. Moores Rowland, Jakarta, 2004.
Main Report, p.7.) The implementing agencies actively implemented BUIP's EMMP, with rigorous
screening of sub-projects. Land acquisition and resettlement was carried out in accordance with the agreed
resettlement policy framework.

Local governments in southern Bali failed to restructure their PDAMs, despite the joint decree of August
2001, which was endorsed by the local parliaments and the provincial government. Problems encountered
in the Jakarta water concessions likely contributed to the unwillingness of Bali local governments to
complete restructuring as a prelude to initiate PSP in water supply.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.




                                                     - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned

BUIP was a complex multi-sectoral urban infrastructure project, with special emphasis on PSP and
cultural heritage, which expanded the decentralization envelope in Indonesia. High quality at entry, strong
client commitment (especially at provincial and local levels), and dedicated supervision from a field based
Bank team enabled the project to be implemented in a satisfactory manner, despite the multi-layered crisis
that affected Indonesia from late 1997. The principal lessons from the project are:

(a) PSP in water supply should be handled as a separate project. The water supply component of
BUIP envisaged PSP and investment in the South Bali region. Despite the strong commitment of the
central and provincial governments, and the prima facie viability of PSP in the region, PSP did not
materialize, mainly because of the reluctance of the local governments to merge the PDAMs and lose direct
control over water supply in their jurisdictions. This was compounded by the strong negative impact of the
economic crisis on foreign private infrastructure investments in Indonesia, including the Jakarta water
concessions. In the end, GOI and the Bank task team had to abandon this part of the water supply
component, and focus on the remaining aspects of this complex project. In retrospect, it is clear that the
water supply PSP should not have been made a part of an already complex integrated project, with so many
innovative features.

(b) The CHC component should have been more modest. Because of the unique cultural environment
of Bali, and the strong interest from Government at national, provincial, and local levels, as well as strong
endorsement from Bank management, the CHC component was designed in a comprehensive manner. The
component was to be part financed by donors, as well as the international and Indonesian private sector.
However, implementation was considerably hampered by the lack of experience of the CHC department
with Bank procedures. The crisis and its aftermath resulted in donors and the private sector shying away
from financing the CHC component. A more modest CHC component, focusing on a limited number of
activities and financed by Bank and Borrower contributions would have been more effective.

(c) Under certain conditions, a decentralized integrated urban infrastructure project can be
successful. BUIP was more successful than other IUIDP projects in Indonesia because of: (i) the compact
geography of the province; (ii) the strong commitment and leadership of the provincial government; (iii) the
strong commitment of the central government to decentralization, and the willingness of the central
government to play a facilitating and monitoring role; and (iv) the relatively good institutional and human
resources capacity of the small number of local governments involved. In addition, field based supervision
enabled the Bank to address issues as they arose, rather than to wait for formal half-yearly supervision
missions. In the absence of these favorable conditions, some of the other IUIDPs had significantly less
favorable outcomes.

(d) Problems of governance can be tackled under the right circumstances. BUIP was extraordinarily
successful in improving governance in procurement because of the strong commitment of key leaders in the
province, and the pioneering efforts made to benchmark costs, and improve transparency. The spotlight on
governance issues in the wake of the crisis was a major contributing factor.

(e) The technical assistance component should be very focused. Compared to other IUIDPs, BUIP had
fewer technical assistance packages. The 19 packages were grouped under five broad categories: (i)
detailed engineering design and supervision (three packages); (ii) project management advisory services



                                                    - 12 -

(two packages); (iii) training (two separate categories); (iv) institutional development (seven packages); and
(v) project related studies. Because of the attention paid by Government (especially at the provincial level),
capable monitoring and management by PPCU, and regular supervision by the Bank, the overall
achievement of this component was satisfactory. Nevertheless, the full impact of some of the good studies
with satisfactory outputs could not be attained, because of the overload on key provincial decision makers.
In retrospect it is clear that the technical assistance component should be more focused, with fewer
packages, especially on institutional development and project related studies.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following are comments from the Ministry of Public Works, Directorate General of Human Settlement


Our Ref: 252/HL.02.02.-KA/2005                                        Jakarta 17 June 2005

To:
Mr. Keshav Varma
Sector Director
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA


Subject: Comments For The World Bank's ICR For Bali Urban Infrastructure
        Project (BUIP)

Dear Mr. Varma,

We are very pleased to note that the overall achievement of BUIP is rated satisfactory. We also would like
to express our appreciation for the best collaboration and network developed during the project
implementation period. In general, the Government is in conformity with the Bank's assessment in the ICR.
However, we feel it is necessary to add the following comments:

1. Project Achievement. Generally, the Government is in conformity with the Bank that the outcome rating
of BUIP targets stated in Project Appraisal Document, is generally satisfactory. It can be said that almost
all of the scope of work planned in the PAD is achieved, not to mentioned the work extension such as
labor-extensive program and infrastructure for NTB. Although there are some differences in details, but
they do not significantly affect the overall achievement valuation. The discrepancies may come from the
distinctions in defining the measure or evaluation indicators. Therefore, in order to obtain a more
comprehensive and agreed valuation, we suggest that the Bank provide the evaluation methodology in the
final ICR document.

2. Control and Implementation. In comparison with similar project packages in past UDP family, BUIP
can be considered an innovative model in terms of project control and implementation. Controlled flexibility
in the implementation is also a positive value added, that is to say, provides discretion in fulfilling the
program execution priority. Comparing to other similar program in the past, BUIP's approach achievement
can be a lesson learned for other urban development programs in the future. However, it should be noted
that this success was supported by the condition of Bali areas which are bestowed with conducive culture


                                                        - 13 -

and environment. Additional reminder that should be presented is that the program components, which are
planned and executed in BUIP, are broad and vary. Besides physical components which are traditionally
covered in UDP projects, this project, carried out some other activities such as cultural heritage and
tourism revitalization, community empowerment, capacity building, and private sector participation.

3.   Closing Date Extension.       Project closing date was delayed for about three times, extended the
completion time for about 21 months beyond the original plan. The Ministry of Finance was the institution
that endorsed the closing date proposal, and it contributed to this delay, though it can be understood
because the MoF has the responsibility to limit financial burden of the government. Regardless of the
reasons, this extension caused the postponement of the community to harvest the benefit from the developed
infrastructure. There are many factors associated with the reasons for closing date extension, which in fact,
occurred in almost all UDP loan projects. In case of BUIP, land acquisition is one of the reasons for the
delay. However, land acquisition problem should have been identified at the first time before project
component implementation. The delay in BUIP occurred because of the land acquisition problem in
Western Ring Road (WRR) package. Learning from the background of the problem, while giving
emphasize to in-advanced land preparation, backed up by preparation, implementation, a more secure
project mechanism, and other things, in the future, it is expected that BUIP can be the last case for closing
date extension.

4.   Urban Roads & Traffic Management.             In general, the achievement of urban roads and traffic
management component development is assessed as successful, despite some discrepancies between PAD's
planned outputs and the real achievements, prolonged land acquisition process of WRR, the component of
this project, contributed to the delay of BUIP completion. In fact, the land acquisition problem was solved
partly and the road was built, but unfortunately, without appropriate technical performance, due to the lack
of technical specification compliance. In the future, land acquisition for any component development, in
this case urban roads, should comply with standard technical requirements and driving safety.

5. Water Supply. Water supply component which was programmed through SLA was not realized
because the PDAM's were unable to increase their borrowing capacity. This fact can be the source of
learning for future feasibility studies, in which the preparation process should cover formal commitments of
all stockholders of UDP. In case of BUIP, despite the absence of water supply sector loan, the efforts for
water supply service improvement were not reduced. This component was carried out anyway using APBD
and APBN source of funds to compensate the absence of foreign source of funding.

6.   Private Sector Participation (PSP).       Program implementation for water supply and solid waste
components were planned to be incorporated in a regional implementation arrangement, that is, the
management process involving two or more local governments who possess mutual expectation and
interdependence. This innovative program is really expected to be the pilot of water supply and solid waste
management for other region in Indonesia. Even though the targets of PSP programs in these two
components were not fully achieved, a better solid waste service arrangement is expected to be realized
through Badan Pengelola Kebersihan Sarbagita (BPKS), a regional implementation institution for solid
waste management. The BPKS should be maintained and activated by provincial government as a potential
implementation agent for solid management agent for solid waste and other sector development.

7. Institutional Arrangement. From the preparation to the implementation phase, the involvement of
provincial and municipal governments are considered superior. From government point of view, this is a
good achievement. On the other hand, during the implementation of the BUIP, there had been a "take it for
granted" change to the role and involvement of Executing Agency, whose position in BUIP arrangement
was no longer the entire process of UDP implementation. While at the same time, the Bank somewhat


                                                      - 14 -

intensified its role, presenting a more influential role and support in the implementation process. Depart
from this reality, the government expected that in the future, the EA terminology can be reoriented to the
most recent condition of central-local government relationships. It is also imperative to carry out the
reformulation of formal roles between Bank, BA, Implementation Agency, and other parties to guarantee a
better mechanism for future UDP implementation arrangement.

Thank you for your kind attention and continued support.

Bambang Goeritno
Director for Technical Development

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable


10. Additional Information

None




                                                    - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicator                         PAD Target Realization Realization
                                                                                                   as % of
                                                                                                 PAD Target
                                          Project Development Objectives

Improve urban            % of population served by piped water                57         61         107
infrastructure services
in a sustainable         % of roads in good condition                         37         45         122
manner to meet the
basic needs of all       Volume of solid waste delivered to disposal sites   1.3         1.7        131
important urban          (Million m3 per year)
centers in Bali and the  Number of major floods recorded per year             25         22         114
needs of growing
urbanization in South
Bali as a result of
tourism and other
economic activities
                                                    Project Outputs


(a) Urban infrastructure Number of new water connections                    29,400     43,200       147
investments              Length of pipes laid (km)                           620         97          16
                         Length of roads constructed (km)                     91         94         103
                         Length of roads widened and surfaced (km)           895        912         102
                         Volume of waste composted (m3 per year)            40,000     38,000        95
                         Area of waste disposal sites constructed or          37         30          81
                         expanded (hectares)
                         Number of communal toilets installed                  5         35         700
                         Number of wastewater treatment plants built or        7          4          57
                         extended
                         Length of drains constructed, widened or            368        395         107
                         rehabilitated (km)
                         Area of Kampungs improved (hectares)                586        873         149
                         Number of markets built or improved                  18         11          61
(b) Private sector       Number of planned private sector investments          2          1          50
participation            committed
                         Number of private sector participation studies        2          2         100
                         completed
(c) Institutional        EMMP implemented                                    Yes        Yes         100
strengthening            Environmental training conducted                    Yes        Yes         100
                         Revenue increase (RIAP) targets for local           Yes        Yes         100
                         governments achieved
                         FRAP targets for PDAMs achieved                     Yes       Mostly        75
(d) Cultural heritage    Number of cultural heritage sites improved            2          3         150
conservation             Inventory of cultural heritage sites compiled       Yes        Yes         100
                         Capacity for cultural heritage conservation         Yes        Yes         100
                         strengthened




                                                        - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                   Table 1: Loan Utilization by to Disbursement Categories


        Category                             Loan Allocation (US$ million)           Actual
                                                                               Disbursement/Latest
                                                                                    Estmate
                                          Original Loan    Amendment to LA
                                           Agreement           Sept. 2002
                                           June 1997

Civil Works - SLA              (1a)                 13.6                  0.86               0.81

Civil Works - non SLA          (1b)                 59.9                 44.56              44.57

Goods - SLA                    (2a)                  7.4                  0.34               0.23

Goods - non SLA                (2b)                  4.2                  4.34               3.57

Training                        -3                   3.6                  2.78               2.54

Consultants Central Gov't.     (4a)                  0.7                  0.98               1.01

Consultants Bali               (4b)                 13.5                 11.62              11.48

Labor Intensive Sub-Projects    -5                     -                  3.38               3.08

Innovation Activities           -6                     -                   2.4               0.52

Community Based Activities      -7                     -                  2.37               4.32

Unallocated                                          7.1                  0.34                  0

Total Loan Amount                                    110                 73.97              72.13


 SLA  Subsidiary Loan Agreement




                                                   - 17 -

 Table 2: Project Cost and Financing

                                     Amount          Allocated   Expenditure Actual as % Disbursed
 Source                             Allocated                    (US$ `000)  of Planned
                                      in PAD         Amount                               Amount

                                    (US$ `000)     ( % of Total)                        ( % of Total)

 Water Supply                           83,600            30        3,023       3.6%        2.9%
 Urban Roads & Traffic
 Management                             65,800            24       34,452       52.%      32.7%
 Drainage & Flood Control               25,400             9       16,163      63.6%      15.4%
 Solid Waste Management                 16,800             6        4,073      24.2%        3.9%
 Sanitation                              1,800             1          309      19.3%        0.3%
 KIP / MIIP                              2,300             1          437      19.0%        0.4%
 Market Development                      3,600             1            -          -          -
 Terminals & Parking Areas              14,000             5        1,226       8.8%        1.2%
 TA for Private Sector
 Participationa                          2,000             1        1,525      76.3%        1.5%
 Cultural Heritage Conservation         10,400             3        1,967      18.9%        1.8%
 Technical Assistance & Training        15,100             5       15,401    102.0%       14.7%
 Labor Intensive Sub-Projects              -               0        5,241           -       3.0%
 Innovations Program                       -               0          963           -       0.9%
 Community Based Poverty
 Alleviation                               -               0        3,970           -     4.54%
 Land Acquisition                          -               0        5,446           -       5.2%
 Incremental O & M                      27,300            10       10,377      38.0%        9.9%
 Local management &
 administration                          9,900             4        1,616      16.3%        1.5%

 Total                                278,000        100.0%       104,688      41.8%      100.0%


ato be funded from the TAP4I 2 Project (Loan No. 3913-IND)




                                                   - 18 -

Table 3 : Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)                1        (US$ million equival.)

Expenditure Category                                                Procurement Method    2                Total Cost
                                                     ICB           NCB          Other          N.B.F.
1. Works                                            14.9          102.9           0.0           64.9          182.7
                                                    (9.7)         (70.5)         (0.0)          (0.0)         (80.2)
2. Goods                                             4.8           12.6           0.0            4.7           22.2
                                                    (3.9)          (8.1)         (0.0)          (0.0)         (12.0)
3. Design & Supervision                              0.0            0.0           4.1            0.7           4.8
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (4.0)          (0.0)         (4.0)
4. Technical Assistance & Training                   0.0            0.0          14.2            3.0           17.2
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)        (13.8)          (0.0)         (13.8)
5. Land, Taxes & Duties                              0.0            0.0           0.0           15.8           15.8
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)
6. Incremental O & M                                 0.0            0.0           0.0           25.9           25.9
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)
7. Local Management & Administration                 0.0            0.0           0.0            9.5           9.5
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)
TOTAL                                               19.7          115.5          18.3          124.5          278.0
                                                    (13.6)        (78.6)        (17.8)          (0.0)        (110.0)
1   Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies

2   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, technical
    assistance services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, and incremental
    operating costs related to (i) managing the project and (ii) relending project funds to local government units


Table 4 : Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate)                1    (US$ million equival.)

Expenditure Category                                                Procurement Method    2                Total Cost
                                                     ICB           NCB          Other          N.B.F.
1. Works                                              00           54.9           7.2            0.0           62.1
                                                    (0.0)         (45.3)         (7.2)          (0.0)         (52.5)
2. Goods                                             1.8            1.2           5.3            0.0           8.2
                                                    (1.8)          (1.2)         (1.6)          (0.0)         (4.6)
3. Design & Supervision                              0.0            0.0           2.7            0.0           2.7
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (2.3)          (0.0)         (2.3)
4. Technical Assistance & Training                   0.0            0.0          12.7            1.5           14.2
                                                    (0.0))         (0.0)        (12.7)          (00)          (12.7)
5. Land, Taxes & Duties                              0.0            0.0           0.0            5.4           5.4
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)
6. Incremental O & M                                 0.0            0.0           0.0           10.4           10.4
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)
7. Local Management & Administration                 0.0            0.0           0.0            1.6           1.6
                                                    (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)
TOTAL                                                1.8           56.1          27.9           18.9          104.7
                                                    (1.8)         (46.5)        (23.8)          (00)          (72.1)
1   Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies

2   Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, technical assistance
    services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, and incremental operating costs
    related to (i) managing the project and (ii) relending project funds to local government units




                                                               - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Table below provides estimated EIRRs for major road and drainage sub-projects at completion.


 Table : Economic Internal Rate of Return  Urban Roads

Local Government, Road               EIRR             Investment (million
           section                                          Rupiah)
Western Ring Road                      24%                    9,408
Sidaa Karya - Pegok                    20%                    1,846

Tohpati  Kusamba II                   21%                   10,007
Kelusa  Taro                          27%                    5,877
Bona  Sema By-pass                    28%                    3,769

Dr. Sujono                             22%                    3,440

Mindang  Metingting                   22%                    3,573

Singarak etc.                          24%                    2,477
Bromo etc.                             26%                    4,377

Yos Sudarso                            23%                    2,319

Wilamaci  Parado                      21%                    3,324
Belo  Nata                            24%                    2,922
Sonco Tenge  Kumbo                    24%                    2,587

 Table : Economic Internal Rate of Return  Drainage

 Local Government, Drain             EIRR              Investment (million
           section                                          Rupiah)
Badung
Kuta drainage network                  18%                   15,900


The PAD estimated the expected overall FIRR for the water supply sub-projects to be 17.2%, the expected
overall EIRR for the urban roads sub-projects to be 18.8% and the drainage sub-projects to be 15.9%. The
PAD did not estimate IRR for the solid waste management sub-projects.




                                                  - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              June 1995                 3    INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); SOLID WASTE
                                             EXPERT (1)
              September 1995            2    INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              January 1996              3    INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); WATER SUPPLY &
                                             SANITATION ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              April 1996                1    INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
              July 1996                 3    INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); SOLID WASTE
                                             EXPERT (1)
              Pre-appraisal,          13     INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
              October/November               (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
              1996                           (1); WATER SUPPLY
                                             ENGINEERS (2); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); SOLID WASTE
                                             EXPERT (1); ECONOMIST (1)
                                             REGIONAL & URBAN
                                             PLANNING (1); URBAN
                                             TRANSPORT (1); CULTURAL
                                             HERITAGE (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 1997              8    INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); WATER SUPPLY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
                                             (2); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEV./ CULTURAL
                                             HERITAGE SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              March 1997                4    INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);



                                              - 21 -

                                  COUNSEL (1)

Supervision
           03/27/1998          5  TTL/ECONOMIST (1);           S    S
                                  INSTITUTIONAL
                                  SPECIALIST (1);
                                  MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                  (1); FINANCIAL
                                  MANAGEMENT (1);
                                  SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                  (1)
           07/17/1998          7  TTL/ECONOMIST (1);           S    S
                                  INSTITUTIONAL
                                  DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                  MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                  SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                  SPECIALISTS (2); WATER
                                  SUPPLY ENGINEER (1)
           03/08/1999          5  TTL/MUNICIPAL ENG. (1);      S    S
                                  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOP
                                  (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                  (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE
                                  EXPERT (1); SOCIAL
                                  DEVELOPMENT (1)
           10/11/1999          11 TTL/MUNICIPAL ENGINEER       S    S
                                  (1); INSTITUTIONAL SPEC.
                                  (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                  (1); COMMUNITY
                                  DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                  (1); PROCUREMENT
                                  SPECIALIST (1); CULTURAL
                                  HERITAGE SPECIALIST (1);
                                  ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                  DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                  COMMUNITY
                                  DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                  (1); URBAN TRANSPORT
                                  SPECIALISTS (2)
           08/04/2000 (MTR)    6  TTL/MUNICIPAL ENGINEER       S    S
                                  (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                  SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                  ANALYST (1); WATER
                                  SUPPLY SPECIALIST (1);
                                  COMMUNITY
                                  DEVELOPMENT/CULTURAL
                                  HERITAGE SPECIALIST (1);
                                  RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                  (1)
           05/03/2001          6  TTL/MUNICIPAL ENGINEER       S    S
                                  (1); SANITARY ENGINEER
                                  (1); COMMUNITY
                                  DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                  RESETTLEMENT (1);



                                  - 22 -

                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
      12/14/2001           7 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                             (1); WATER SUPPLY
                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                             SPECIALIST (1); CULTURAL
                             HERITAGE SPECIALIST (1);
                             EDUCATIONAL SPECIALIST
                             (1); TTL/MUNICIPAL
                             ENGINEER (1)
      03/25/2002           7 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                             SPECIALIST (1); CULTURAL
                             HERITAGE SPECIALIST (1);
                             RESETTLEMENT/COMMUNIT
                             Y-BASED DEVELOPMENT
                             SPECIALIST (1); SANITATION
                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                             ANALYST (1);
                             TTL/MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                             (1); URBAN PLANNER (1)
      05/21/2003           4 TTL, MUNICIPAL ENGINEER      S    S
                             (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE
                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             RESETTLEMENT/COMMUNIT
                             Y-BASED DEVELOPMENT
                             SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                             PLANNER (1)
      11/20/2003           5 TTL, MUNICIPAL ENGINEER      S    S
                             (1); RESETTLEMENT
                             SPECIALIST (1); CULTURAL
                             HERITAGE SPECIALIST (1);
                             URBAN PLANNER (1);
                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
      04/30/2004           4 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);      S    S
                             SOCIAL/RESETTLEMENT (1);
                             COMMUNITY
                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                             (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE
                             SPECIALIST (1)


ICR
      09/28 - 10/1/2004    5 MUNICIPAL                    S    S
                             ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                             SOCIAL/RESETTLEMENT
                             (1) COMMUNITY
                             DEVELOPMENT
                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             MANAGER,
                             OPERATIONS SERVICES
                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                             SPECIALIST (1)



                             - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 160.20                           659.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        19.20                           89.6
  Supervision                                226.69                          654.38
  ICR                                          14.34                           36.0
  Total                                      420.43                        1,439.18
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for fiscal years prior to FY00.




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   BUIP Project Appraisal Document (PAD), 1997
2.   BUIP aide memoires, 1997 through 2004
3.   BUIP Mid-Term Review, 2000
4.   BUIP Quarterly Reports, Annual Reports, and Special Reports by PPCU, 1997 through 2004
5.   BUIP Project Implementation Report by PPCU Advisory Consultant, 2004
6.   BUIP Draft ICR report by ICR and PBME consultant, 2004
7.   Annual Technical Audit Reports, prepared by ItWilProp Bali (later renamed Badan Pengawasan),
     1998 through 2004
8.   Annual Financial Audit Reports, prepared by BPKP, 1998 through 2004
9.   Project files, containing full records of preparation and supervision activities, 1995 through 2004
10.  Monitoring Corruption in World Bank Projects  An Organizational Learning Approach. Draft
     Report by SEA-Change Partners, Singapore, 2004. Annex: Case Study BUIP.
11.  Procurement Post Review and Financial Audit. Final Report by Moores Rowland, Jakarta, 2004.
     Main Report, specific volume on BUIP.




                                                  - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Procurement Improvement


BUIP management made great efforts to improve procurement, and the project has been acknowledged as
one of the best managed Bank-financed projects in Indonesia.

In Indonesia, there are two sets of procurement problems: (a) mismanagement of the process by the
contracting agency; and (b) distortion of the process among bidders. This became more evident after the
massive decentralization process. Deliberate infringements by contracting agencies can be reduced by tight
supervision, coupled with training for supervisors, and by rigorously applying sanctions when
infringements are detected. However, systematic collusion among bidders is more difficult to detect, as the
formal requirements have often been met to the letter. Regular prior and post reviews by the Bank often
fail to detect the concealed deviations because such reviews are done contract by contract. GOI and the
Bank decided to go one step further and conduct additional systematic, comparative, and synoptic reviews.
These reviews covered contracts under BUIP, and subsequently, contracts awarded by government agencies
outside BUIP. A database of more than 500 contracts was developed, in stages, permitting comparisons of
unit prices, total prices, and the procurement process.

The database enabled the Executing Agency (EA), PPCU and the Bank to see that many deviations in the
procurement process could be traced back to deliberate distortions initiated by bidders. Distortions took
the form of well connected contractors and suppliers taking steps to reduce the competitiveness of the
process by artificially restricting the number of bidders, or by creating an artificial advantage for certain
bidders. Such maneuvers included persuading the contracting agency to: (a) officially restrict the number
of eligible bidders; (b) advertise the tender in such a manner that it is overlooked by or is inaccessible to,
potential competitors; (c) informally share relevant information before bid opening with a selected group of
bidders; (d) require bidders' attendance at a pre-bid conference that might be held without proper advance
notification; and (e) apply pre-qualification procedures with obscure rules that allow arbitrary
disqualification of bidders. Such practices make it possible for relatively few bidders to collude among
themselves by predetermining prices, deciding the bid winner in advance, and by cooperating in bid
preparation. Many of the eventually submitted bids used unit prices that were very close to those set by the
government and used in the owner estimates, although these unit prices were often significantly higher than
the rates obtainable through competitive procurement. These inflated prices could lead to significant profit
margins, allowing the successful bidder to offer substantial bribes and kickbacks to government officials.

BUIP managers took the following measures to combat this situation: (a) publish invitations to bid widely
(in national newspapers or, for smaller projects, in provincial newspapers), in prominent places and in type
fonts not smaller than the newspaper's font size; (b) resist pressure to reduce the number of eligible bidders
on a regional basis; (c) permit sufficient time to prepare bids; (d) abolish unnecessary requirements that can
be misused to disqualify bidders arbitrarily; and (e) establish an effective complaint resolution unit. The
PPCU also carried out rigorous reviews of compliance with rules and regulations, as well as the actual
outcome of the tender. If the unit rates were excessively high compared to similar contracts, the PPCU
would advise decision-makers to consider re-tendering by providing the available evidence. The figure
attached indicates the degree of competitiveness of BUIP tenders.




                                                      - 28 -

                                        Competitiveness of BUIP Tenders


                         100%

                                  12
                          90%
                                                   27

                          80%
                                  26
                          70%


                          60%
     Tenders                                       30
                                                                    92        High
            All           50%                                                 Medium
               of                                                             Low
                          40%

                 Percent  30%     62


                          20%                      43


                          10%

                                                                    8
                          0%
                               1997 - 2000     2000 - 2001      2002 - 2004

                                          Years of tendering




Owing to these improvements, many bids submitted in the last phase of BUIP offered prices that were more
than 30% below owner estimates, resulting in substantial cost savings.

Several of the changes introduced by BUIP were incorporated into relevant national regulations,
notably Presidential Decree No. 80/2003 on Procurement.

The substantial improvements in BUIP procurement are documented by an independent audit conducted on
behalf of the Bank (Procurement Post Audit and Financial Audit; Moores Rowland, Jakarta, 2004). The
audit covered 23 Bank-funded projects and found that, on average, 31% of the reviewed contracts showed
some deviations, while in BUIP this figure was only 8%, with the next-best performing project at 14%.




                                                              - 29 -

Figure : Comparison of Unit Costs



                                                  120%




                                                  100%
   Rates                                                                                                                       Typical
        of                                                                                                                     Government
                                                                                                                               Financed
                                                   80%                                                                         Contracts

          Schedule

                                                                                                                               BUIP Sub-
                                                   60%                                                                         Projects

                  Government
                            of
                                                   40%


                              Percent
                                     in            20%


                                       prices

                                             Unit  0%
                                                      Excavation   Steel   FC 15 type K225 type Sub-base  Base for Asphalt
                                                        works   reinforcing concrete  concrete  for roads  roads   treated
                                                                                                                   base for
                                                                              Type of Work                          roads




                                                                                             - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Land Acquisition Process for the Western Ring Road in Denpasar

One of BUIP's major challenges was acquiring land for the Western Ring Road (WRR) in Denpasar.
BUIP met this challenge by combining three methods: (a) land consolidation; (b) land-for-land swaps; and
(c) full cash compensation.

In Bali, land has been acquired through land consolidation since the 1980s. Early in BUIP, land owners in
the vicinity of the planned WRR were very reluctant to accept land consolidation because of previous bad
experiences with it. These experiences included: (a) absence of participation and non-transparent processes
in reallocating land, leading to (i) long processing times, (ii) new plots sometimes being located very far
from the original plots, (iii) in extreme cases, the allocation of new plots to parties who were not original
land owners in the area, and (iv) a general feeling of insecurity and helplessness among land owners; (b)
long completion delays of the planned infrastructure; and (c) long processing delays of land certificates for
the newly allocated plots. In some instances, land certificates for the newly allocated plots had still not
been issued after six years. Bank management also was initially against land consolidation.

Nevertheless, the team promoted this method for the WRR because this was the only viable option for
obtaining land which was very expensive in the area. The Government simply could not to provide cash
compensation, even though the road was critical for Denpasar and Kuta. As a first step, the team obtained
firm assurances from the land agency (BPN) that this time, land consolidation would be handled with a
fully participatory and transparent process and speedy issuance of land certificates for the newly allocated
plots. Based on these assurances, the team held numerous discussions with affected land owners, who
agreed to accept land consolidation under these conditions, and with the additional assurances that the
deficiencies and pending problems from earlier land consolidations would be solved simultaneously. (Such
practice was not common in Bali or Indonesia.) After BPN agreed to these conditions, Bank management
accepted this model.

During implementation, most of the agricultural land was acquired with land consolidation, with a high
degree of participation and transparency, and to the satisfaction of the land owners. In some cases,
especially where the original plots were very small and already developed for high-density housing, land
consolidation was not practical. Such plots were acquired through land-for-land swaps, and the buildings
were compensated in cash. In a few cases, both land and buildings were compensated in cash. To set the
legal framework for the land consolidation process for the WRR, the Mayor of Denpasar issued two
decrees in 1999.

In a first phase, completed in 2000, BPN handled 347 ha of land in three villages, owned by a total of
1,102 parties. However, the process was delayed because too few of the concerned land owners agreed to
the land consolidation procedure (approximately 40%, versus 85% required by prevailing law). In
December 2000, the long overdue new land certificates from previous land consolidation exercises were
issued to the land owners.

In the second phase, land consolidation started in August 2001 with a workshop attended by about 100
concerned land owners, NGOs, and government agencies. The workshop was followed by intensive
dissemination in the concerned villages. Also, a special forum was formed in October 2001 to collect and
forward complaints and suggestions from the concerned land owners. Funds required for cash
compensation of land and building owners were budgeted in the Municipal Budget of Denpasar for Years
2001 and 2002.




                                                       - 31 -

Finally, the land was obtained after three years of extremely hard work by the PPCU, their advisors, the
Mayor of Denpasar and BPN. The important roads were constructed and are now fully effective. The
flawed land consolidation process that was carried out prior to the project was also rectified and the
community gained back their lost land. The process has been able to promote a far more transparent land
consolidation process, and opened a new way of obtaining land in complex and expensive areas. This
model is now used as the land consolidation model in Bali and its success is acknowledged by the national
land agency.




                                                    - 32 -

- 33 -

