Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4155 IND
Loan Agreement
(Bali Urban Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 9, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4155 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated  May 30, 1995, withthe 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
      “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of
      the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
      suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
      of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after
      consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be
      required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the
Page  2
      proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank determines, with
      respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
      that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives
      of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the loan during the procurement
      or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken
      timely and appropriate action acceptable to the Bank to remedy the
      situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
      contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
      the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that
      the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of
      the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
      the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect
      of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
      out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an
      amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or
      (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
      Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by
      notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
      Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
      giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)
“AMDAL” means Analysis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, the Borrower’s
national guidelines for the preparation of environmental impact assessment,
including mitigation and monitoring measures established by Government
Regulation No. 51 of 1993, of the Borrower;
(b)
“Annual  Project Implementation Plan” and “APIP” mean Memoranda
Pelaksanaan Program Tahunan (MPPT), the annual action plan adopted among Bali,
as hereinafter defined, and each Participating Local Government and its
respective PDAM pursuant to the provisions of Part A.2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(c)
“Bali” means the provincial government of Bali, one of the
Borrower’s provinces;
(d)
“Bapedal” means Badan Pengendalian Dampak Lingkungan Nasional,
the Central Government’s Environmental Impact Management Agency;
(e)
“Bapedalda” means Badan Pengendalian Dampak Lingkungan
Propinsi Daerah Tingkat I, the Provincial Environmental Impact Management
Agency established by Bali;
(f)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of
the Borrower and any successor thereto;
(g)
“Bina Marga” means the Directorate General of Highways within
the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and any successor thereto;
(h)
“BLH’’ means Biro Bina Lingkungan Hidup, the Environmental
Management Bureau established by Bali within the Office of the Provincial
Governor;
(i)
“Cipta Karya” means the Directorate General of Human Settlements
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and any successor thereto;
(j)
“EMMP” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management and
Monitoring Plan applicable in the Province of Bali for the environmental
screening, management and monitoring of remedial measures designed to
offset the impact of Project infrastructure investments defined pursuant
to PP51 of 1993, KEP-39/MENLH/8/1996, KEP-14/MENLH/3/1994, KEP-12/MENLH/2/1994,
Decree of the Head of BAPEDAL No. KEP-056 of 1994, KEPMEN PU No. 58/KPTS/1995,
Regulation of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works No. 69/PRT/1995,
KEPMEN PU No. 147/KPTS/1995, KEPMEN PU No. 148/KPTS/1995 and KEPMEN PU No.
481/KPTS/1996, as any of the same may be amended from time to time;
(k)
“Executing Agency” means Cipta Karya, the Directorate General
of Human Settlements within the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and any
Page  3
successor thereto;
(l)
“Fiscal Year”  means the fiscal year of the Borrower or the
fiscal year of Participating Local Governments, both commencing April 1 and
ending March 31;
(m)
“FRAP” means the financial recovery action plan adopted by a
Participating PDAM;
(n)
“Implementing Agencies” means the central, provincial and local
agencies, departments and units, including the Participating Local
Governments, and Participating PDAMs responsible for Project implementation
and coordination referred to under Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
and “Implementing Agency” means any of the Implementing Agencies;
(o)
“Kabupaten” means a level II autonomous local government
(district) within the Province of Bali;
(p)
“Kotamadya” means a level II autonomous local government
(municipality) within the Province of Bali;
(q)
“Participating Local Government” means any of the level II
autonomous local governments within the Province of Bali listed in Section
I of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(r)
“Participating PDAM” means a Participating PDAM, as hereinafter
defined, operating under a Participating Local Government;
(s)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established within a
Participating Local Government including: (i) Kabupaten Badung pursuant to
SK No. 228A/1997 dated March 25, 1997; (ii) Kabupaten Bangli pursuant to
SK No. 227/1997, dated March 25, 1997; (iii) Kotamadya Denpasar pursuant to
SK No. 80/1997, dated March 25, 1997; (iv) Kabupaten Jembrana pursuant to
SK No. 47/1997, dated March 25, 1997; (v) Kabupaten Buleleng pursuant to
SK No. 99A/1997, dated March 25, 1997; (vi) Kabupaten Gianyar pursuant to
SK No. 103/1997, dated March 25, 1997; (vii) Kabupaten Karangasem pursuant
to SK No. 197/l997, dated March 25, 1997; (viii) Kabupaten Klungkung pursuant
to SK No. 64/1997, dated March 25, 1997; and (ix) Kabupaten Tabanan pursuant
to SK No. 69/1997, dated March 25, 1997, and “PCUs” means the Project
Coordination Units collectively;
(t)
“PDAM” means a water enterprise, established by and operating
under a Participating Local Government pursuant to the provisions of the
Borrower’s Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of
the Ministry of Home Affairs, and Joint Decree No. 3 of 1984 of the Ministry
of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public Works;
(u)
“PDAM fiscal year” means the fiscal year of any of the
Participating PDAMs commencing January 1 and ending December 31;
(v)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators agreed with the
Bank and designed to measure the achievement of the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such indicators
may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank; 
(w)
“PPCU” means the Provincial Project Coordination Unit
established within the Office of Bappeda Bali pursuant to SK Gub No.
96/1997, dated March 25, 1997, in accordance with the provisions of Part
B. II. 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(x) 
“Project Affected Person” and “PAP” means a person who, on
account of the execution of Part A.1 or Part D. (a) of the Project, had or
would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right,
title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed,
temporarily or permanently adversely affected; or (iii) business, occupation,
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Project
Affected Persons” or “PAPs” means collectively all persons who qualify as a
Project Affected Person;
(y)
“Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum” and “PPIM” mean
the memorandum of understanding entered into between the Borrower and Bali
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as such
Memorandum may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(z) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” mean a resettlement and
rehabilitation action plan to be prepared by any Participating Local
Government or Participating PDAM pursuant to the Resettlement Guidelines,
as hereinafter defined, and which includes, where necessary, compensation,
in line with the Resettlement Guidelines, for persons resettled after
January 1, 1996;
(aa)
“Resettlement Guidelines” means the framework approved by the
Provincial Governor of Bali pursuant to SK Gub. No. 3/97 dated January 14,
1997, and other operational regulations describing procedural and
institutional aspects, pertaining to land acquisition and the resettlement
and compensation of PAPs under the Project, as such Guidelines may be
amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(bb)
“Rupiah” means the currency of the Borrower;
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
(dd)
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure investment project
described under Part A.1 and Part D. (a) of the Project;
(ee)
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a Participating Local Government or a Participating PDAM
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(ff)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” and “SLAs” mean the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower, represented by its Ministry of Finance,
and Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs, pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, and “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” and “SLA”
mean any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to
one hundred ten million dollars ($110,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a
state commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
including, in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Page  5
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through Cipta Karya with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial, technical, environmental, resettlement and cultural heritage
conservation practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available out of the
proceeds of the Loan the amounts allocated from time to time to Categories
(1) (a) and (2) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement to Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs except
for Kotamadya Denpasar and Participating PDAM Badung, under subsidiary loan
agreements entered into between the Borrower and each Participating Local
Government and the Borrower and, each Participating PDAM, respectively,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia, the following principal terms and conditions: (i)
the amount repayable under each Subsidiary Loan shall be the Rupiah
equivalent at the time of withdrawal of such proceeds from the Loan Account;
(ii) the interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding of a
Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at a fixed annual rate of 11.75%. Such
interest shall be payable during any grace period; (iii) the commitment 
charge shall be payable on the amount so on-lent but not yet withdrawn from
time to time at the rate payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section
2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) the repayment period of each Subsidiary Loan
shall be up to twenty (20) years, including a grace period of up to three (3)
years.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the
Loan to Bali and the Participating Local Governments, on a grant basis, the
amount allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3)
and (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in
accordance with terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through the Executing Agency, enter into a
provincial program implementation memorandum with Bali on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank including those set forth in Part A.1 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Project and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the Provincial Program Implementa-
tion Memorandum or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Page  6
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement
of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower, including the
Participating PDAMs, responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                 (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                 Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
                 appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                 independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                 not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                 the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                 and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                 requested; and
          (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                 records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                 shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
             (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                  the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
                  and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that no Participating PDAM shall incur any debt unless
a reasonable forecast of the finances of such Participating PDAM shows that:
(i) in any period of two consecutive PDAM fiscal years during the term of
the debt to be incurred, the projected net current receipts of such
Participating PDAM shall be at least 1.3 times the projected debt service
requirement of such Participating PDAM in such said two fiscal year-period;
(ii) each Participating PDAM produces for each of its fiscal years, starting
on January 1, 1997, gross operational revenues equivalent to not less than
its operating expenses; and (iii) by not later than January 1, 2001, each
Participating PDAM produces in each of its fiscal years, gross current
Page  7
revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its operating expenses and
depreciation.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  the term “debt” means any indebtedness of a Participating
                  PDAM maturing by its terms more than one year after the
                  date on which it is originally incurred;
      (ii)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                   contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                   such debt or further modification of its terms of
                   payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or
                   instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
                   date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                   entered into;
     (iii)  the term “net current receipts” means the total cash
                   receipts of any Participating PDAM obtained from charges
                   applied to water supplied, together with the total cash
                   receipts from all other revenues which are routinely
                   received by any of such Participating PDAMs, on an annual
                   or more frequent basis, including cash receipts from fees
                   for customer connections which are received by the
                   Participating PDAM under the terms of an extended credit
                   scheme agreed between the respective Participating PDAM
                   and its customers, but not including other receipts from
                   connection charges and other receipts of funds raised
                   for the specific purpose of financing capital expenditure,
                   less all operating expenses of the respective
                   Participating PDAM and all other expenses which fail to
                   be met out of the above-mentioned cash receipts;
      (iv)  the term “debt service requirement” means the aggregate
                   amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments,
                   if any) of, and interest and other charges on all debts
                   of a Participating PDAM, including any debt to be
                   incurred by such Participating PDAM;
(v)   the term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared
                    by or on behalf of a Participating PDAM, which both the
                    Bank and the Participating PDAM accept as reasonable,
                    provided that no event has occurred since such
                    acceptance, or may be reasonably be expected in the
                    future to have, a material adverse effect on the
                    financial condition or future operating results of such
                    Participating PDAM;
      (vi)
the term “gross operational revenues” means the sum of
                    the total billable charges of a Participating PDAM for
                    water supplied, together with all other revenues which
                    are routinely received on an annual or more frequent
                    basis in connection specifically with the supply of
                    water, not including revenues from fees for customer
                    connections whether or not receivable under the terms
                    of an extended credit scheme agreed between the
                    respective Participating PDAM and its customers, and
                    not including any other revenues which are receivable
                    for the specific purpose of financing capital expenditure;
     (vii)   the term “operating expenses” means the sum of all
                    expenditures incurred by a Participating PDAM in
                    relation to the supply of water by such Participating
                    PDAM, including maintenance and administration, but
                    excluding depreciation and expenditures on the provision
                    of connections to water consumers and excluding all
                    other expenditures of a capital nature;
    (viii)
the term “gross current revenues” means the total
                    billable charges of any Participating PDAM for water
                    supplied to customer, together with the total of all
                    other revenues which routinely accrue on an annual or
Page  8
                    more frequent basis, including revenues from fees for
                    customer connections which accrue under the terms of
                    an extended credit scheme, but not including other
                    revenues accruing from connection charges and other
                    revenues which are for the specific purpose of
                    financing capital expenditure;
(ix)
the term “depreciation” means the annual provision
                    charged by a Participating PDAM against revenues to
                    depreciate, on the basis of generally accepted
                    accounting principles, the value of its water fixed
                    assets in operation as valued from time to time in
                    accordance with methods of valuation acceptable to
                    the Bank; and
 (x)
whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                    necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                    Borrower; debt payable in another currency, such
                    valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                    lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
                    is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                    purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
                    such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
                    to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that no Participating Local Government shall incur
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of
such Participating Local Government shows that the projected non-grant and
local revenues for a Fiscal Year minus the projected routine account
expenditure on staff administration and routine operational and maintenance
needs of such Participating Local Government for each Fiscal Year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
projected debt service requirement of such Participating Local Government
in such year on all debt of such Participating Local Government including
the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of a Participating
                    Local Government maturing by its terms more than one year
                    after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                    contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                    such debt or further modification of its terms of
                    payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or
                    instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
                    the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
                    been entered into;
(iii)
the term “debt service requirement” means the aggregate
                    amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments,
                    if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt;
(iv)
the term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared
                    by a Participating Local Government in the Fiscal Year
                    in which the debt in question is to be incurred, which
                    both the Bank and the Participating Local Government
                    accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                    notified the Participating Local Government of its
                    acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
                    since such notification which has, or may reasonably
                    be expected in the future to have, a material adverse
                    effect on the financial condition or operating results
                    of such Participating Local Government; and
(v)
whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                    necessary to value, in terms of Rupiah, debt payable
                    in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                    the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
                    which such other currency is, at the time of such
Page  9
                    valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                    such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                    basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Borrower or Bali will be able to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum;
and 
(b)
the Resettlement Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement or the ability of Bali to perform any of its obligations under the
PPIM.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the events
specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum has been duly approved by
all relevant authorities and executed by the Borrower and Bali.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Bali and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Bali in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Resettlement Guidelines have been duly approved by
the Borrower and Bali and all necessary actions have been taken to enable
the Resettlement Guidelines to be implemented in accordance with their
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Page  10
Indonesia
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
       44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Francis X. Colaco
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                   Amount of the
                  Loan Allocated
        % of
                  (Expressed in
       Expenditures
Category
                     Dollars)
      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works contracted
     for Sub-projects: 
     (a)  financed under SLAs
13,600,000
      90%
     (b)  other works
       59,900,000
      65%
(2)  Goods (except
     vehicles) for Sub-projects:
     (a)  financed under SLAs
  7,400,000
      90%
     (b)  other goods
         4,200,000
      100% of foreign
 
                   expenditures, 100%
Page  11
                   of local expenditures
                   (ex-factory cost), and 
                   65% of local expendi-
                   tures for other items 
                   procured locally
(3)  Training                       3,600,000
      100%
(4)  Consultants’ services:
     (a)  contracted by the
    700,000
      80%
   Borrower’s central
   agencies
     (b)  contracted by
        13,500,000
      100%
   Bali, Participating
   Local Governments and
   Participating PDAMs
(5)  Unallocated
         7,100,000
TOTAL
              110,000,000
              ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) 
payments under Categories (1), (2) and (3) and (4)(b) with
respect to expenditures incurred by a Participating Local Government and
its respective Participating PDAM, unless the Bank has approved the first
APIP for such Participating Local Government and Participating PDAM, which
shall have been adopted in accordance with the provisions of Part A.2 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
payments under Categories (1) and (2) with respect to
expenditures incurred under any Sub-project unless: (i) the Sub-project
has been selected in accordance with the criteria described under Part A.3
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) the Bank has approved such Sub-
project; and (iii) where applicable, the implementation of the RAP and the
AMDAL requirements have been found to be acceptable to the Bank; and
(d) 
payments under Categories (1)(a) and (2)(a) with respect to
expenditures incurred by a Participating Local Government or a Participating
PDAM, unless the Bank has approved the first Subsidiary Loan Agreement for
such Participating Local Government or such Participating PDAM, which shall
have been entered into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a)
of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts
for goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for civil
works costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent; (c) training; and (d)
contracts for the employment of: (i) consulting firms costing less than
$100,000 equivalent; and (ii) individual consultants costing less than
$50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  12
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a)
improve the provision of urban infrastructure services in the Province of
Bali; (b) promote private sector participation in the provision of urban
infrastructure services in the Province of Bali; (c) strengthen the urban
and environmental management capabilities of the Participating Local
Governments and Participating PDAMs; and (d) improve the conservation and
management of the cultural heritage of the Province of Bali. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Infrastructure Works
1.
Carrying out a five-year program of infrastructure investment works
for Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs in the following
sub-sectors:
(a)
urban roads and traffic management;
(b)
water supply;
(c)
drainage and flood control;
(d)
solid waste management;
(e)
sanitation;
(f)
provision of support to low-income communities and rehabilita-
tion of urban neighborhoods (Kampung);
(g)
urban infrastructure renewal, including rehabilitation of
existing and construction of new markets, bus terminals, and parking areas;
and
(h)
environmental monitoring and implementation of mitigation
measures designed pursuant to AMDAL requirements.
2.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons under
Part A.1 above.
Part B:
Private Sector Participation
Improving the institutional, technical and financial capabilities of
the Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs to identify and
select private sector investments in the infrastructure sector including,
inter alia, in the water supply and solid waste sub-sectors in the Province
of Bali through: (a) the provision of advisory services; and (b) the carrying
out of studies.
Part C:
Institutional Capacity Development
1.
Improving the managerial capabilities of the staff of the Participating
Local Governments and Participating PDAMs through the provision of management
advisory services.
2.
Improving the capabilities of the Borrower’s central, provincial and
local agencies to program, manage and finance Sub-project preparation
implementation and environmental management and community consultation
through:
(a)
the provision of advisory services and training; and
(b)
the carrying out of the following technical studies: (i) an
assessment of cumulative environmental impacts of future investments in the
infrastructure sector in the Province of Bali; (ii) preparation of
development plans for selected strategic centers in the Province of Bali;
(iii) preparation of strategic structural plans for the Kuta neighborhood
in Kabupaten Badung; and (iv) support for the development of a public
Page  13
transport strategy for the Province of Bali.
Part D:
Cultural Heritage Conservation
Improving the cultural heritage conservation capacity of the Province
of Bali through:
(a)
the carrying out of conservation and rehabilitation works
including:
(i)
rehabilitation of the Besakih neighborhood;
(ii)
development of a provincial inventory of historic places;
(iii)
strengthening the capacity for conservation of physical
                    cultural heritage; and  
(iv)
development and installation of signs in Bahasa-Indonesia
                    and other languages at selected historical sites; and
(b)
the provision of training for the staff of provincial and local
agencies responsible for the design, preparation and implementation of
cultural heritage conservation activities.
*           *           *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
SECTION I
Participating Local Governments
Kotamadya Denpasar
Kabupaten Badung
Kabupaten Buleleng
Kabupaten Jembrana
Kabupaten Tabanan
Kabupaten Gianyar
Kabupaten Klungkung
Kabupaten Bangli
Kabupaten Karangasem
SECTION II
Participating PDAMs
PDAM Gianyar
PDAM Tabanan
PDAM Bangli
PDAM Karangasem
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
      (a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the
aggregate  principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in
such Interest Period.
      (b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from
and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next following
Interest Payment Date.
      (c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section
Page  14
2.06 of this Agreement.
      (d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first
day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from
time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described
in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue,
at a rate equal to the applicable:
      (i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
     (ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final
repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate
equal to the applicable:
      (i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
     (ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the day
occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
      (b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
      (ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
                    Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
                    offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                    deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                    borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to
                    fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                    it that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
                    Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest rates
corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
             (i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
            (ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
                    Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above)
                    the London interbank offered rates, or other reference
Page  15
                    rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
                    outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
                    fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                    it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
           (iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
                    Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed
Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of
the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to
the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan
not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of
its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to
the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, the first such
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last
such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each
installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to
the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after June 15, 2012, the
Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such
Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  16
      (a)
Prequalification
       Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)
Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) works estimated to cost
$3,000,000, and (ii) goods estimated to cost $200,000 shall be grouped in
bid packages.
      (c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower.
      (d)
Dispute Review Board
      Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or
more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in
the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of
the Guidelines.
      (e)
Notification and Advertising
      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with
the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines: (a) goods
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent; and (b) works,
estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $61,000,000 equivalent.
2.
National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or
to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
      The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (a) each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (b) each
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more.
3.
Post Review
Page  17
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-
based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifica-
tions thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above,
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individuals raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Implementation Arrangements
1.
Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the PPIM shall, inter alia,
include the following undertakings:
(a)
 Cipta Karya shall be designated as the Executing Agency.
(b)
Bali shall be designated as the principal Implementing Agency.
(c)
The Implementing Agencies for purposes of the Provincial Program
Implementation Memorandum shall be Cipta Karya, Bina Marga, Bali, the
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs.
(d)
Bali shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to this end shall
carry out its respective part of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, environmental, resettlement and cultural heritage conservation
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
implementation of the Project.
(e)
Bali shall ensure that the Participating Local Governments and
Participating PDAMs carry out their respective parts of the Project in
accordance with technical, financial and environmental criteria, cost
estimates, financing arrangements, community consultation procedures,
implementation timetables, operations and maintenance programs,
institutional capacity development programs and the Performance Indicators.
(f)
Bali shall, through the PPCU, ensure that procurement of the
goods, works and consultants’ services required by the Implementing
Agencies for their respective parts of the Project, and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  18
(g)
The Implementing Agencies shall use the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for the purposes of 
their respective parts of the Project.
(h)
Bali shall closely monitor the implementation of all proposed
activities, and shall inspect, from time to time, the goods, works and
services procured by the Implementing Agencies under their respective parts
of the Project, including all records and documents relating thereto.
(i)
The Borrower, through the Executing Agency, shall promptly
inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, and ensure that appropriate
corrective measures are taken by the relevant Implementing Agencies.
(j)
The Executing Agency shall cause each Implementing Agency to:
      (i)
from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower
                    or the Bank, exchange views with the Participating Local
                    Governments and Participating PDAMs regarding progress
                    achieved in carrying out their respective Sub-projects;
                    and
     (ii)
furnish to the Bank all such information and documents
                    related thereto as may reasonably be requested. Bali
                    shall further agree to obtain such information and
                    documents from Participating Local Governments or
                    Participating PDAMs, as may be required by the Borrower,
                    to fulfill its supervision, monitoring, recording and
                    reporting obligations to the Bank.
2.
Annual Project Implementation Plan (APIP)
The Borrower shall ensure that, commencing on April 15, 1998, and
thereafter, by April 15 in each year until the completion of the Project,
APIPs are adopted by Bali and each of the Participating Local Governments
and their respective PDAMs, in accordance with model terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, including the scope, costs,
time-bound implementation schedules, financing plan and detailed budget
arrangements for Sub-projects and other Project activities. 
3.
Sub-projects
In carrying out Part A.1 and D (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause the Implementing Agencies to:
(a)
select and prepare Sub-projects to be financed under the
Project using technical, financial, economic, environmental and social
criteria acceptable to the Bank. Such criteria shall include, without
limitation:
(i)
each Sub-project shall be prepared by the respective
                    Participating Local Government or Participating PDAM;
(ii)
for each Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project, a
                    projected minimum economic rate of return of ten
                    percent (10%) shall be required;
(iii)
for each Sub-project involving the involuntary
                    resettlement of any PAP, a RAP has been prepared in
                    accordance with the Resettlement Guidelines and in
                    consultation with said PAP, and such RAP has been
                    approved by the Bank;
(iv)
for each Sub-project, operation and maintenance
                    arrangements have been defined;
(v)
for each Sub-project, the AMDAL requirements have been
                    completed; and
(vi)
for each Sub-project under Part D.(a) of the Project,
                    conservation guidelines have been followed in a manner
                    acceptable to the Bank;
Page  19
(b)
furnish to the Bank for its approval, by not later than
November 15, 1997, and thereafter, by November 15 of each year until
completion of the Project, a list of Sub-projects proposed to be financed
under the Project during the next Fiscal Year, together with all
supporting documentation, all in accordance with the criteria set forth
in sub-paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
promptly after receiving the Bank’s approval thereof carry out
their respective Sub-projects approved by the Bank in accordance with
standard operating procedures and technical guidelines issued by the
Provincial Project Coordination Unit, including the carrying out of any RAP
approved by the Bank and required under paragraph 3 (a) (iii) above, in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.
Part B:
Implementing Agencies
Responsibility for the implementation of the Project shall be vested
in the Implementing Agencies as follows:
I.
Central Executing and Implementing Agencies
1.
BAPPENAS, in its capacity of coordinating agency, shall be
responsible for providing overall policy guidance and sectoral oversight.
2. 
Cipta Karya shall be the Executing Agency and shall be responsible
for: (a) overseeing the overall progress of Project implementation; (b)
ensuring coordination of Project activities among Implementing Agencies at
the central, provincial and local levels; and (c) carrying out overall
technical supervision and management of Project activities.
3.
Bina Marga shall be responsible, at the national level, for the
implementation of its respective Sub-projects referred to under Part A.1
(a) of the Project.
4.
The Directorate General of Water Resources Development within the
Ministry of Public Works shall be responsible, at the national level, for
the implementation of its respective Sub-projects referred to under Part
A.1 (c) of the Project.
5.
The Directorate General of Financial Institutions within the
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance shall be responsible for the execution,
enforcement and supervision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
6.
The Ministry of Home Affairs shall be responsible for providing
guidance to the provincial and local Implementing Agencies on all aspects
pertaining to general organizational structure and staffing matters
required throughout Project implementation.
7.
Bapedal shall be responsible for providing guidance to Implementing
Agencies on all environmental matters under the Project.
II.
Provincial Implementing Agencies
1.
Bali shall be the lead Implementing Agency and shall be responsible
for the implementation of the Project.
2.
(a)
In discharging its implementation responsibilities, Bali shall
maintain at all times during Project implementation the PPCU within the
Office of Bappeda Bali.
(b)
The PPCU shall be responsible for  the overall coordination
of the PCUs and management of the Project and shall provide support in the
implementation of the Project through: (i) ensuring the technical quality
of Project activities; (ii) reviewing proposed Sub-projects and furnishing
them to the Bank for approval; (iii) issuing standard operating procedures
and related guidelines for the implementation of Sub-projects by
Implementing Agencies; (iv) monitoring the implementation of Sub-projects,
and establishing, maintaining and monitoring accounting and auditing
procedures and documentation, including the preparation and consolidation of
Project accounts; (v) supervising the implementation of RAPs and
environmental mitigation measures in accordance with the EMMP; (vi)
Page  20
preparing, in close coordination with the Executing Agency, the quarterly
and annual progress reports on overall Project implementation and
furnishing said reports to the Borrower and the Bank; and (vii)
coordinating the provision of training for local project management staff
in procurement procedures.
3.
The various provincial agencies shall be responsible for managing
their respective Sub-projects and, to this end, shall appoint and
thereafter maintain, at all times, during Project implementation, a
qualified and experienced Sub-project Manager (PIMPRO) for each of said
Sub-projects. The PIMPRO shall be responsible for: (a) day-to-day
management of Sub-project activities; and (b) overseeing implementation
of environmental management and monitoring plans and activities under
the Sub-projects.
4.
(a)
Bali shall maintain until completion of the Project, the
Bapedalda. BLH shall carry out the activities for which Bapedalda is
responsible until such time as Bapedalda has become operational.
(b)
The Bapedalda shall be responsible for: (i) providing overall
guidance and supervision of environmental management and monitoring plans
activities under the Project pursuant to the EMMP; (ii) reviewing and
approving environmental documentation submitted by the Implementing
Agencies with their respective Sub-project proposals; (iii) coordinating
the provision of environmental training activities for the staff of the
Implementing Agencies; and (iv) providing general oversight for the
implementation of mitigation activities for environmental impacts and other
remedial actions identified during Project implementation and detailed
under the APIPs.
III.
Participating Local Governments
1.
Each Participating Local Government shall be responsible for the
coordination and monitoring of the implementation of Sub-projects carried
out in the jurisdiction of such Participating Local Government.
2.
(a)
In discharging its implementation responsibilities, each
Participating Local Government shall maintain at all times during Project
implementation, a PCU.
(b)
The PCU shall be staffed with competent and qualified staff
in adequate numbers. Such staff shall include (i) a full-time Project
Manager assigned with appropriate functions, responsibilities, resources
and funds, and (ii) representatives of the Kabupaten or Kotamadya Planning
Agency (Bappeda II), the Local Agency of Public Works (DPUK) and the
Kabupaten or Kotamadya Finance Division.
(c)
The PCU shall be responsible for overall coordination of the
implementation of Project activities in the jurisdiction of the respective
Participating Local Government.
IV.
Participating PDAMs
Each Participating PDAM shall be responsible for:
(a)
the implementation of the respective Sub-project; and
(b)
the implementation of the respective FRAP.
Part C:
Implementation Actions
1.
The Borrower undertakes to carry out the asset acquisition of,
compensation to, and resettlement and rehabilitation of, Project Affected
Persons in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Guidelines
and of the RAPs, if applicable.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
through the relevant national public works inspectorate
general (ITJEN PU), the Bali Provincial Inspectorate (ITWIL PROP), and
the relevant Kabupaten or Kotamadya inspectorates (ITWIL KAB/KOT), carry
out, not later than October 31, 1998, and annually thereafter, until the
Page  21
completion of the Project, annual technical audits, acceptable to the Bank,
for Project quality assurance, including achievement of Project objectives
pursuant to the Performance Indicators, provision of compensation under
the RAPs, if applicable, and performance under contracts for goods, works
and consultants’ services financed under the Project; and
(b)
promptly after completion of the said technical audits,
furnish to the Bank the recommendations submitted as part of said audits.
3.
The Borrower shall, and shall cause Bali to maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable the Borrower and Bali to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause Bali to, prepare, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or
about August 31 of each year, commencing August 31, 1998, and until the
completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section 3 above,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date. 
(b)
The Borrower shall review with the Bank, by October 31 of each
year, commencing October 31, 1998 and until the completion of the Project,
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and carry out an annual project
implementation review to, inter alia: (i) evaluate progress achieved by
the Implementing Agencies, in carrying out the Project, including the
carrying out of the RAPs and the timely provision of local counterpart
funds to finance such RAPs; (ii) evaluate performance of the Participating
Local Governments and Participating PDAMs, under the respective APIPs,
SLAs and FRAPs, during the previous year and review draft APIPs and SLAs
proposed for the upcoming year; (iii) evaluate progress in the carrying
out of the studies referred to under Part C.2 (b) of the Project and the
training activities referred to under Parts C.2 (a) and D (b) of the
Project; (iv) assess the level of expenditures incurred by Participating
Local Governments and Participating PDAMs to finance the costs of
operation and maintenance of infrastructure financed under the Project,
during the previous Fiscal Year and PDAM Fiscal Year and the allocations
proposed for the following Fiscal Year and PDAM Fiscal Year; (v) monitor
the implementation of environmental management and monitoring plans and
activities approved by the Bapedalda; (vi) discuss and exchange views on
all other related activities financed by foreign assistance; and (vii)
exchange information among Implementing Agencies and propose solutions
to any current implementation issue.
(C)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause Bali to, promptly
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said reviews.
5.
The Borrower shall and shall cause the Implementing Agencies
responsible for the implementation of Sub-projects to carry out the
EMMP required under the respective Sub-project. 
6.
The Borrower shall cause the Participating PDAMs to take all measures
required to implement the respective FRAPs agreed with the Bank, as such
FRAPs may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
7.
In carrying out the studies described under Parts B and C of the
Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause Bali to:
(a)
carry out the studies in accordance with terms of reference
and timing acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank for comments, not later than December 31,
2000, the recommendations of the studies; and
(c)
promptly thereafter prepare relevant action plans, taking into
account the comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the studies.
Page  22
8.
In carrying out the training described under Parts C.2 (a) and D (b)
of the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause Bali to, carry out such
training in accordance with programs and implementation timetables
acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (3)
and, (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories  in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to
$6,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $3,200,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $12,800,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence acceptable to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                 shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                 Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                 specify.
    (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
                  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                  as shall have been justified by said documents and
                  other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
Page  23
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
      (a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
