                                   Documentof
                               TheWorld Bank



                                                    ReportNo.: 35624




               PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                           REPUBLIC OFINDONESIA



           SECONDEASTJAVA URBANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                             (LOAN N0.4017-IND)

                  BAL1URBANINFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                              (LOAN N0.4155-IND)

                     MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONSPROJECT
                             (LOANN0.4440-IND)




                                 March27,2006




Sector, Global and ThematicEvaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Rupiah (Rp)                                                                 r



1996                                             Rp.2,3 42.30
                           US$1.oo
                           US$1.oo
2000                                             Rp.8,421.80
2004                       US$1.oo               Rp.8,93 8.90



AbbreviationsandAcronyms


Bappeda       Development PlanningBoard               PAD         Project Appraisal Document
Bappenas      National Development PlanningBoard      P D A M     Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum
BaPPeProP     Provincial Development Planning Board                (Local Water Utility Company)
Bupati        Head o f Regency Government             PIU         Project Implementing Unit
BUIP          Bali Urban Infrastructure Project       PJM         Program Jangka Menengah (Medium
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy                          Term Investment Program)
CDD           Community DrivenDevelopment             P M U       Project Management Unit
Dinas         Department                              PPAR        Project Performance Assessment
ERR           Economic Rate o f Return                             Report
FRAP          Financial Recovery Action Plan          PPCU        Provincial Project Coordinating Unit
GO1           Government o f Indonesia                PPMO        Provincial Project Management Office
ICR           ImplementationCompletion Report         PROPENAS    Program Pembangunan
IEG           IndependentEvaluations Group                        Nasional (National Development
IUIDP         Integrated UrbanInfrastructure                      Program)
               Development Program                    PSP         Private Sector Participation
Kabupaten     Regency (local government)              REPELITA    Rencana Pembangunan Lima Tahun
Kecamatan     Subdivision o f Kabupaten or Kota                   (National Five Year Development
KIP           Kampung (poor neighborhood)                         Plan)
               Improvement Program                    RIM         Revenue Increasing Action Plan
Kota          Municipality (local government)         SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan            SEJUDP      Second East Java UrbanDevelopment
M&E           Monitoringand Evaluation                            Project
M o H A       Ministry o f Home Affairs               SIDRP       Strategic Infrastructure Development
MIIP          Market Infrastructure Improvement                   and ReformProgram
               Program                                SLA         Subsidiary LoanAgreement
M I P         Municipal Innovations Project           Walikota    Mayor/Head o f Municipal
NTB           Nusa Tenggara Barat province                        Government
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
OED           Operation Evaluations Department
               (now known as IEG)




FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31



Director-General, Evaluation                            : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank            : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation         : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.Roy Gilbert

                                                              i


    IEG Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
        The IndependentEvaluationGroupassessesthe programs and activities of the World Bankfor two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank`s self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
 expected results, and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the
 dissemination of lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEG annually assessesabout 25 percentof the
 Bank`s lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are innovative,
 large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;those for which Executive
 Directorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate importantlessons.
 The projects, topics, and analytical approachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluationstudies.
        A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
 PPARs, IEG staff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
 IEG studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank`s
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEGare suited to the broad range of the World Bank'swork. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluationcriterion (more information is available on the IEGwebsite:
http://www.worldbank.orgliegl).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extentto which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Susfainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regularoperation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towards the
achievementof development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                     111



 Contents

 PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................    v

 Key StaffResponsible              ........................................................................................................    v

 Preface  ...............................................................................................................................      vi

 Summary     ..........................................................................................................................        ..
                                                                                                                                              vi1

 1 Introduction
  .                     ..................................................................................................................     1

 2 ProjectDesignand Implementation
  .                                                               ...........................................................................  3

Relevance of Project Objectives                   ..........................................................................................   3

Project Design       .....................................................................................................................     6

 Community Participation               ....................................................................................................    7

M&E Design and Use                .........................................................................................................    8

Safeguards and Unintended Impacts                          .................................................................................
Borrower Performance                .......................................................................................................    9

Bank Performance            ..............................................................................................................     9

3 ResultsAchievedby the Projects
 .                                                          ..............................................................................    10

SecondEast Java Urban Developmentproject (Ln 4017)                                            ............................................... ~0

Bali Urban Infrastructure project (Ln 4155)                            ...................................................................    13

Municipal Innovations Project (Ln 4440)                            .......................................................................    17

4 Ratings
 .             ........................................................................................................................       19

5 LessonsLearned
 .                             .........................................................................................................      20

Bibliography      .....................................................................................................................       22

Annex A BasicData Sheet
           .                              ..............................................................................................      23

Annex B Borrower Comments
           .                                     .......................................................................................      33



This report was prepared byNilaksh De Silva. Consultant. who visited Indonesia to assessproject
performance during September.0ctober. 2005                 .Romayne       Pereira provided administrative support.

iv

                                                           V



  PrincipalRatings


                                                  ICR*                     ICR Review*                          PPAR
  Outcome                                     Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory
  Sustainability                                  Likely                     Unlikely                          Unlikely
  Institutional Development Impact               Modest                      Modest                            Modest
  Bank Performance                            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     Satisfactory



                                                  /CR*                     ICR Review*                          PPAR
  Outcome                                     Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory
  Sustainability                                 Likely                       Likely                           Unlikely
  Institutional Development Impact            Substantial                    Modest                          Substantial
  Bank Performance                            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     Satisfattory
  Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory



                                       --         ICR*                    ICR Review*                           PPAR
                                                                                                  I_                         1-1-
  Outcome                                    Satisfactory                  satisfactory                      Satisfactory
  Sustainability                                 Likely                       Likely                           UnIikely
  Institutional Development Impact              Modest                       Modest                            Modest
  Bank Performance                           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      Satisfactory


- The Implementation CompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank. The
  ICR Review is an intermediateIndependentEvaluation Group (IEG)product that seeks to independently verify the
  findings of the ICR.



  Key StaffResponsible

 Project               Task ManagedLeader             Division Chief/Sector Director               Country Director
   Appraisal               Stephen Dice                       Anupam Khanna                            Marianne Haug
    Completion             Stephen Dice                        Keshav Varma                         Andrew D. Steer



 Project              Task ManagedLeader              Division ChiefBector Director                Country Director
                                                                                                  .-"--
   Appraisal                  Raja lyer                       Anupam Khanna                           Marianne Haug
   Completion             George Soraya                        Keshav Varma                         Andrew D. Steer




   Appraisal              Frida Johansen                       Keshav Varma                           Dennis de Tray
   Completion           lndira Dharmapatni                     Keshav Varma                        Andrew D. Steer

                                               vi


Preface

This is the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) for a cluster o fprojects
relating to municipal service provisionthat illustratedapproaches to urban development
that have been long supported by the BankinIndonesia. Assessing these projects together
can helpprovide insights into contributions o f local government to urban development in
Indonesia- an important focus o f this report - from differentproject perspectives. The
three projects reviewedhere were:

    SecondEastJava UrbanDevelopmentProject(Ln4017-IND), for which the
    World Bank approved a loan o fUS$142.7 millionon May 16, 1996. The loanwas
    closed on December 31,2001,twenty one months later than planned, andUS$67.3
    millionwas cancelled.

    BaliUrban Infrastructure Project (Ln4155-IND), for which the Bank approved a
    loan o f US$110 million on May 06, 1997. The loan was closed on September 30,
    2004, which was also twenty one months later than planned, and US$37.9 million
    was cancelled.

    MunicipalInnovationsProject(Ln4440-IND), for which the Bank approved a loan
    o fUS$5 millionon February 09, 1999. The loan was closed on June 30,2003,
    eighteen months later than planned, and US$0.3 millionwas cancelled.

The report is based on a review o fproject documents, includingImplementation
CompletionReports, StaffAppraisal Reports, Memorandato the President, legal
documents andproject files, and on discussions with Bank staff involved inthe projects.
An IEGmissionvisitedIndonesia inSeptember-October 2005 to reviewproject results
and met with over 80 persons including officials o f the central, provincial and local
governments, and representative o f agencies involved inproject implementation, non-
government organizations and other donors. The IEGmission carried out field visits to
project sites in 14municipalities located in5 provinces where the mission met with
project beneficiaries. We gratefully acknowledge the courtesies and attention givenby all
these interlocutors, as well as the excellent logistical support providedby the Bank's
country office inJakarta.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments. Comments have beenreceived and
are attached as Annex B.

                                               vii


 Summary

 This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers three urbanprojects in
 Indonesia, namelythe SecondEast Java UrbanDevelopment Project (Ln4017-TND), the
 BaliUrbanInfrastructureProject (Ln4155-TND) and the Municipal InnovationsProject
 (Ln4440-IND). These three projectswere designedandimplementedduringaperiodof
political and economic turmoil inIndonesiathat included the East Asian Economic Crisis
 o f 1997/1998 which had an adverse impact on project performance. Inspite o f this,
 important decentralization took place and local governments, as beneficiaries o f this
reform and key players inthese projects, are a key focus of this evaluation.

SecondEast Java Urban Development Project: Project objectives, mainly to improve
urban infrastructure and capacity of local authorities to deliver municipal services, were
 substantially relevant to the priorities identifiedby the GO1andthe Bank insuch
documents as the current National Development Program (PROPENAS) and the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). However, the project has only made a small contributionto
improving urbaninfrastructure inEast Java and large investments under the project, such
as the by-pass roadaround the town o fNjanjukandincreased supply capacity o fthe
water company inTulungagung, have only yieldeda fraction o ftheir expected benefits.
The overall outcome is therefore rated moderately unsatisfactory. Sustainability i s
unlikely, mainly because local governments have not allocated sufficient funds for O&M
activities and maintenance activities are already behindschedule. The project's
institutional development impact was modest mainly because the financial capacities o f
local governments and localwater companies responsible for urbaninfrastructure remain
weak. Bankperformance is rated satisfactory: intensive supervision helpedkeep the
project moving despite the onset o f the economic crisis soon after effectiveness and
Borrower performance is also rated satisfactory especially inview o f the efficient work
done by the project unit inliaisingwith the very large number o fparticipating local
authorities.

Bali Urban Development Project: The objectives o f the project, mainly to develop urban
infrastructure, strengthenlocal capacities to manage infrastructure services and promote
private sector participation (PSP) inurbaninfrastructure, were substantially relevant to
the priorities identifiedbythe Borrower as well as the Bank. Inspiteofthe project's
limitedengagementinthe water sector (originally allocatedmore than one third o f
project costs) and the project's limited contribution to promoting private sector
participation inurbaninfrastructure, nonwater sector project activities, notably roads and
drainage, generated highreturns so that overall outcome i s rated moderately satisfactory.
Sustainability however i s rated unlikely for the same reasons as the previousproject,
namely local governments have not allocated sufficient funds for O&M activities and
some investments have already fallen into disuse.Institutional development impact i s
rated substantial mainly becausethe project piloted significant procurement reforms,
notablythe use o fpost-qualification, now incorporated into national guidelines. Bank
performance i s rated satisfactory mainly because o f intensive supervision which provided
good support to local officials to complete project activities as well as pilot different
procedures, particularly inprocurement and land acquisition for urban development.

                                               viii


Borrower performance was also satisfactory, especially inview o f the commitment and
competence o f the provincial and local officials inimplementing the project.

Municipal Innovation Project: The objectives o fthe project, to encourage efficient
municipal innovation projects and promote the dissemination o f successful innovation
projects, were substantially relevant inthe context o f Indonesia's ongoing
decentralization reforms which came into effect duringproject implementation. The
project demonstrated local government capacities to formulate and implement
improvements inthe management and delivery o f urbanservices and its overall outcome
is rated as satisfactory. Sustainability however is rated as unlikely, because innovations
were largely driven by champions-mostly        individuals who remain inplace for limited
periods o f time. Institutional development impact is ratedmodest because many local
governments didnot internalize into their regular operations the learning from the
innovations introduced. Bankperformance is rated satisfactory, on account o f good
project design with appropriate risks for a learning and innovation loan (LIL)and good
supervision to ensure that needed implementation support was provided to local
governments. Borrower performance i s also rated as satisfactory because o f sound
policies by the Indonesian Government to support decentralization and municipal
services and good implementation o f a difficult project by the Project Management Unit
(PMU).

Experience with the three projects suggests the following lessons:
    Local governments inIndonesia should continue to buildupon their demonstrated
    capacity to successfully implement improvements ininfrastructure delivery, but need
    to be more responsive still to urbandevelopment needs expressed through local
    community participation.
    A cross-sectoral framework, such as IntegratedUrbanInfrastructure Development
    Program (IUIDP), can work well for local governments, provided the investment
    resources within it are sufficiently concentratedto adequately address needs inall
    included sectors.
    All stakeholders, including localgovernments themselves, need to agree and
    understand clearly thepurpose behind local innovations -be it to increase efficiency,
    to increase client-responsiveness -rather thantreat innovation as a benefit per se.
    The Bank has experience and a richknowledge base from many years o f investing in
    local services through government (andmore recently local government) driven
    projects. Ensuring that local governments are always included as partners, with
    continuous emphasis upon improvingtheir performance, should be a mainstay o f all
    Bank assistance to local service provision. .
    Monitoring andEvaluation (M&E) systems need to be designed and implemented to
    track outcomes related to project objectives, as well as the inputs and outputs o f
    project activities that will help achieve these outcomes.




                                                                       Vinod Thomas
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                       Evaluation

 1.      Introduction

 1.1     Rapidurbanization since the early 1970si s placing enormous pressures on the
delivery o furbanservices inIndonesia. An archipelago ofmore than 17,500 islandswith
great diversityinregional cultures and traditions, Indonesia i s home to about 215 million
people, givingit the world's fourth largest population, 47 percent o fwhich lives in
rapidly growing urban areas. Inthe 1 9 9 0 duringthe start up o f the projects reviewed
                                               ~ ~
here, Indonesia's 4.4 percent per annum urbanpopulation growth rate was three times as
fast as the 1.7 percent growth rate o fthe country's populationas a whole. By2004, eight
major cities inIndonesia eachhadmore than one million inhabitants. Providing
infrastructure and other municipal services such as clean water, sanitation and adequate
transport especially to the poor inthese highlypopulated areas i s already an enormous
challenge andpressures on these services will only increase. The urbanpopulation in
Indonesia i s expected to increase by a further 60 millionpeople by year 2020 (World
Bank, 2003a) but comparedto its neighbors, such as Malaysia, Thailand and the
Philippines,it is already behindinbasic service provision(see Box 1).

Box 1: InfrastructureCoverage-Indonesiacomparedto itsneighbors
                                             Indonesia  Malaysia    Philippines    Thailand
 Access to improved sanitation (%)              52         100           73           99
 Access to improvedwater source (%)             78         95            85            85
 Pavedroads (%)                                 57         75            20           98
 Roadnetwork (kmper 1,000 pop)                 1.77       2.97          2.73          1.08
 Source: World Development Indicators, 2002

1.2      Between 1985-1995 Indonesia enjoyed an annual average GDP growth rate o f 7.1
percent andwas able to reduce income poverty, from about 60 percent inthe 1960s, to
about 11percent. Urbanpoverty was also low - at 7.2 percent o f the population (World
Bank, 2003a). However, a substantial proportiono f the urbanpopulation livejust above
thepoverty line and are highlyvulnerable to shocks such as naturaldisasters and
political, economic, social or environmental catastrophes.Duringthe East Asian
economic crisis o f 1997/98 for example, one third o f the populationi s reported to have
fallen below the poverty line (World Bank, 2003a). The period from 1995-2004 during
which the projects reviewedhere were preparedand implementedwas a volatile one for
Indonesia (Figure 1) as the country faced several exogenous shocks which also
precipitated far-reaching changes inits political and economic landscape.

1.3      Inspite ofthis volatility, importantdecentralization reforms went into effect on
January 1,2001. Through these laws, muchresponsibility for public service delivery
shiftedfrom the center to lower levels of government. But almost four years into the
decentralization process, a certain amount o f confusion still remains about the respective
powers, responsibilities and functions o fthe central, provincial and local levels o f
government. I t was inthis context that the projects reviewedhere had to perfonn.

      Z N
      3
      N     Directelections for local headsof governmentbegins.


-           Firstever directpresidentialelection.PresidentSusilo Bambang

.I
i;    0
      hi
0           Parliamentaryand local elections




      -1   1                                                                I   l l
            Bomb attack inKuta,Balikilling202 people, mostly tourists
                                                                             c!
                                                                             2 7
      N                                                                      2"*      *v1




            Parliament dismissesPresidentover allegations of corruption.              f38


            "BigBang" decentralizationlaws becomeeffective
                                                                                     Y
                                                                                      m
                                                                                      5




      S I N                                                                  c!
      n
      ?!                                                                     30
                                                                             m =

            Formulationoffar-reachingdecentralizationlaws.Firstfree
         -' election in44 years. PresidentAbdurrahmanWahid elected

            Riots andstudent demonstrationscontinue                                   +
                                                                             '4
                                                                             -8
      X ) N
      n                                                                      2 -      *
      3  -                                                                            528
            Collapse of the Rupiahreaches its peak.RiotsinJakarta. President
            Suharto steps down, replacedby PresidentHabibie.
      .     Exchange ratebeginsto fluctuate wildly andthe Rupiahplummets
      n .N' invalue.                                                         'cr:
      2     EastAsianeconomic crisis begins.




      O  N
      2




5
3
W

                                                   3


  1.4    The Bankhasprovided significant support to infrastructure inIndonesiaduring
 the past decade andhas committedclose to US$2billion for transport, water, sanitation
 andother urbandevelopments. Inthe mid 1 9 8 0 the Government of Indonesia(GOI)
                                                         ~ ~
 introduced, with Bank support, the IntegratedUrbanInfrastructure Development Program
 (IUIDP). This was a multi-sectoral approach to urbaninfrastructure development - that
 embraced water, roads, drains, solid waste management, sewerage and sanitation as well
 as terminals, market improvements and slums upgrading - which was usedas a
 framework for all donor-supported infrastructure deliveryimprovements inIndonesia
 duringthe following decade. Bythe endof 1993, the IUIDP framework was appliedinall
 parts o f the country and covered 56 percent o f the urbanpopulation. The Bank itself
 funded 9 operations underthis program, includingthe two projects assessed inthis report,
 the Second East JavaUrbanDevelopmentProject (called SEJUDPhereafter) andthe Bali
 UrbanInfrastructure Project(called BUIPhereafter). These are follow-on operations to
 the first Bank-fundedproject underthe IUIDP - the East Java-Bali UrbanDevelopment
 Project (Ln3304) assessedby IEGin2000 and rated moderately satisfactory The
 Municipal InnovationsProject (called MIPhereafter) was not part o fthe rUIDP
 framework; it was a stand-alone project but complemented the "standard" Bank projects
 supporting investments inurban services (such as the IUIDP) and emphasized capacity
 and systems improvement - complementing IUIDP projects that placedmore emphasis on
 infrastructure delivery.

 1.5     The three projects assessed inthis PPARwere all implementedthrough local
 governments -themselves an important focus o f this assessment.Unlike first-generation
 IUIDPprojects, both SE.JUDP andBUIPwere implementedthrough substantially
 decentralized management and implementationresponsibilities to local government
 levels. This was also the case o f the MIP which was designedto be driven by local
government demand. These three projects therefore bringtogether complementary
approaches to improving local service delivery.Assessing themtogether can help provide
insightsinto contributions of local government to urbandevelopment inIndonesiafrom
the different projectperspectives.

2.       ProjectDesignand Implementation

Relevance of Project Objectives

2.1      SEJUDP and BUIP objectives (Box 2) to improve urban infrastructuredelivery
are as relevant today to country conditions and the priorities the Government o f Indonesia
(GOI) andBank as they were at the time ofproject design. Bythe mid 1990s when these
projects were prepared, Indonesia was already facing difficulties inkeepingpace with
demandfor urbaninfrastructure services andREPELITA VI (GOI's FiveYear
Development Plan for 1995-1999) gave highpriority to water, sanitation and urban
transport (World Bank, 1994). The economic crisis o f 1997/98 deepenedthe problem as
manyplanned investments were postponedor evencancelled. BothGO1andthe Bank
have prioritized improving infrastructure intheir current agenda; the National
Development Program(PROPENAS3) for 2000-2004 period, prioritizes creating
institutional structures that can meet the demand o f cities, increasing private sector

3. PROPENAS (2000-2004) follows on fromthe six REPELITA (1969-1999).

                                                             4




Objectives                                       Components

                                                 ECT (L~.4017)
                                                 (a) InfrastructureWorks (appraisal US$193.Im; actual US$79.4m)
services.                                         (i) Supply(appraisalUS$60.4m;actualUS$8.Om.);
                                                      Water
(ii) developthe financial and institutional      (ii) Roads(appraisalUS$58.Om;actual US$36.2m.);
                                                      Urban
capacityof participating local governments       (iii) Drainage(appraisal US$38.2m; actual US$19.5m.);
and local water companies (PDAMs) inthe          (iv) Solid Waste Management (appraisal US$12.4m; actual US$4.7m.);
Provinceof East Java.                            (v) Sanitationand Sewerage (appraisal US$12.Om; actualUS$I.8m.);
4(iii)supportnational andprovincial              (vi) Kampung ImprovementProgram-KIP andMarket Infrastructure
governmentefforts to operationally definethe     ImprovementProgram-MIIP (appraisal US$9.9m; actual US$9.lm.);
urbanandregional developmentstrategy of          (vii) UrbanRenewal(appraisal US$2.2m; actual 0);
the currentnational developmentplan              (b) InstitutionalCapacity Development:
(REPELITA VII), by supportingthe                 (i) Improving service delivery capabilities;
preparationof the EastJava Strategic Regional    (ii) Improving sub-projectpreparationand implementation.
DevelopmentProgram.                              (c) StrategicDevelopmentProgram: Design andpreparationof aregional
5(iv) mitigate the impact of Indonesia's         programfor hture infrastructureinvestments.
economiccrisis and promotegood                   Additional Components:
governance.                                      (a) Labor intensiveprojects(US$6.3m)
                                                 (b) PDAMrescue program(0)
                                                 (c) Incentiveprogramfor local governments (US$2.Om)
                                                 (d) Supportto improved administrativeservicedelivery by local governments
                                                 (US$2.Om)

BALI URBAN    INFRASTRUCTURE     PROJECT   (LN.~ 5)
 (i)improvetheprovisionofurban                   [a) UrbanInfrastructureInvestments(appraisal US$250.5m; actual
infrastructureservices inthe Provincesof Bali    US$71.6m)
andNusaTenggara Barat (NTB)6;                    [i) Urbanroads andtraffic management (appraisal US$65.8m; actual
(ii) promoteprivate sector participation inthe   US$34.5m)
provision of urbaninfrastructureservices in      :ii) supply(appraisalUS$83.6m;actualUS$3.0m)
                                                     Water
the Provinceof Bali;                             ,...
                                                 \ill)Drainageand flood control (appraisal US$25.4m; actual US$I6.2m)
(iii) strengthenthe urbanand environmental       :iv) Solid waste management(appraisal US$I6.8m; actual US$4.Im)
managementcapabilitiesof the Participating       :v) Sanitation (appraisal US$I.8m; actual US$O.3m)
Local GovernmentsandParticipatingPDAMs;          :vi) KIP and MIIP (appraisal US$2.3m; actual US$O.4m)
md                                               :vii) Markets (appraisal US$3.6m; actual 0)
[iv) improvethe conservationand                  :viii) TerminalsandParking Areas (appraisal US$I4m; actual US$l.tm)
managementof the cultural heritageo f the        :ix) Incrementaloperationsand maintenance supportingO&M (appraisal
Provinceof Bali.                                 LISS27.3m; actual US$I0.3m)
                                                 'x) Local managementand administration (appraisal US$9.9m; actual
                                                 YS$I.6m)
                                                 :b)PrivateSector Participation(appraisal US$2.Om; actual US$1.5m)
                                                 'c)CulturalHeritageConservation (appraisal US$IO.Im; actual US$1.9m)
                                                 d) TechnicalAssistanceand Training(appraisal US$I5.Im; actual
                                                 ;IS$15.4 m)
                                                 idditionalComponents7:
                                                 a) Labor-intensivework (US$5.2 m)
                                                 b) Support to goodgovernanceby streamliningbureaucraticprocedures (0)
                                                 c) Efficiency enhancinginnovative service delivery (US$O.9 m)
                                                 d) Community basedpoverty alleviation program(US$3.9 m)
                                                 e) Land acquisition (US$5.4 m).




  4. Additional objective statedinthe SAR (no formal revision to Loan Agreement).
  5. Objective added following the East Asian economic crisis in 1997(no formal revision to Loan Agreement).
  6. Loan Agreementwas amended inDecember, 2002 and objective (i) revisedto includeNTB.
                                                                       was
  7. These components were added after the EastAsian economic crisis in 1998 and in2001following the MTR.

                                                                 5


   Box 2: ProjectObjectivesand Components (Contd.)
I Objectives                                     I Components
 MUNICIPAL   INNOVATIONS    PROJECT   (L~.4440)
 (i)encourage efficient municipal innovation       (a) Municipal Innovationssubprojects(appraisal and actual US$6.4m)
 projects;                                         including efficiency enhancing infrastructure services and pilot projects to
 (ii)promote the dissemination o f successful      improve municipal administration;
 innovation projects;                              (b) InstitutionalDevelopment(appraisal US$O.7m; actual US$I.2m) through
 (iii)
     improve central government practices          capacity buildingo f the project management unit (PMU)inproject
 affecting municipalities                          administration, supervision, and monitoring; workshops and dissemination
                                                   activities; training o f selected local government staff; and to implement a
                                                   program o f awards o f excellence for municipal innovation projects.




   investment inurbaninfrastructure (an objective o f BUP) and improving infrastructure
   networks and services (World Bank 2003a). The 2003 Country Assistance Strategy
   (CAS) identifies, among others, transportation, water and sanitation infrastructure as
   priorities, as well as the needto support buildingsub-national infrastructure within a
   decentralized framework -inall o fwhich local governments are keyplayers.

   2.2      Inthe context ofrapiddecentralization, the institutionaldevelopment objectives
   o f SEJUDP andBUP - to strengthenthe capacity o f local governments and localwater
   companies (called PDAMs inIndonesia) to plan and manage their investments-have
   become increasinglyrelevant. The longhistory o fhighly centralized power structures did
   promote implementingcapacity at the local level, but very little planning and
   management capacity there. The decentralization laws o f 2001transferred substantial
   powers and authority over public expenditures andpublic service delivery to the local
   governments but there i s considerable uneasewithin central government as well as the
   donor community about the capacity o f local governments to take onthese functions and
  responsibilities effectively. The enhancedresponsibilities o fthe local governments on the
   one hand, andtheir capacity constraints to planand finance service delivery on the other,
  prompted the 2003 CAS to note that "...the main development challenges definedinthis
   CAS have become, to a large extent, challenges at the district level" (World Bank, 2003b,
  p.30). Once again, local governments are seen as keyparticipants.

  2.3       Inadditionto the mostlyphysicalobjectives discussed so far, both SEJUDP and
  BUIPhave other objectives which attempt to respondto priorities o fparticular provinces
  (the state level o f administrationinIndonesia). For example, the fourth objective o f BUIP
  - o fimproving the conservation and management o fthe cultural heritage o f the Province
  o fBali - i s not one o fthe mainpriorities for either GO1or the Bank' as discussed in
  documents such as PROPENAS and CAS, but i s for the Bali Provincial Authorities.
  Similarly, the third objective o f SEJUDP, o f supporting the preparation o f the East Java
  Strategic RegionalDevelopment Program, i s not a nationalpriority as such, but reflects
  needs inthat regiono f the country. These objectives reflect a worthwhile attempt to
  customize the IUIDP framework to differences inthe regions inwhich projects are
  implementedandto respond to particular local needs.


  8. While not a formal policy priority for the Bank, in an initiative begun in 1998 Bankmanagement has offered to
  provide loans, grants and other forms of support for assisting client countries inutilizing their cultural assets for
  economic and social gain.

                                                         6


  2.4        The objectives o fMIP showed particular foresight as the project was designed
 before the scope and extent o f the Indonesia's decentralization reforms were fully
 knowng.When MPwas being conceptualized - between March 1998 and January 1999 -
  Indonesia was still governed from the center and local governments had very little
  opportunity much less funds with which they could experiment or be innovative. When
  Law 22/1999 came into effect on January 1,2001, responsibility for public service
 delivery was transferred to local governments who also received a substantial increase in
  spending authority - giving local govemrients both the funds and the opportunity to be
 innovative. Inthe context o f these decentralization reforms, both the GO1and the Bank
 recognize the need to increase the efficiency and efficacy o f local service delivery under
 the wider issue o f improving governance (World Bank, 2003b).

 2.5         Inrelationto the current priorities ofGO1andthe Bank, however, the relevance
 of all three projects i s undermined by one very important aspect - lack o f explicit
 attention to poverty reduction. The projects instead aim to improve urban services in
 general, as opposed to focusing explicitly on urban services for poor and underserved
 areas, and increasing municipal responsiveness to the needs o f the poor. This reflects the
 policies and priorities at the time these projects were designed when bothGO1and the
 Bank were more focused on maintaining growth and enhancing competitiveness,
 believing that broad-based growth is the best way o f raising the living standards of the
 poor (World Bank, 1995). However, the issue o f poverty andvulnerability was brought to
 the forefront with the economic crisis in 1997/98 and with it, the realization that
 increasing overall access to basic services often fails to reach the most vulnerable people
 (World Bank, 2003b). While appraisal documents o fboth the SEKJDP and the BUIP
 mention that poor andunder-served neighborhoods should be given priority for project
 investments, there i s uncertainty among both Bank andBorrower staff interviewed by
 IEGabout whether povertyreduction was infact part o fthe objectives o f either project.
 Inthe end, onlythekampung(slum) improvementsubcomponent-less                                 than5 percent o f
plannedproject costs-clearly prioritized poor andunderserved settlements.

Project Design

2.6         The SEJUDP and BUIPwere wisely designedto focus primarily upon urban
infrastructure improvements-an              area inwhich the Bank has considerable and long
experience, especially inIndonesia itself. BUIPwas coordinated by the provincial (rather
than the central) government - an improvement over previous IUIDP operations as it was
able to monitor implementation more closely. The project also expected to mobilize
substantialresources (US$174 per beneficiary compared to just US$16 under SEJUDP)
to cover smaller geographical area -which limits the possibility o f replicating this
experience elsewhere. Duringimplementation both projects incorporated new activities to
respond to the changing country contexts but project objectives were not formally revised
to reflect these new priorities. Inthe case o f BUIP some new and diverse activities were
added to the project, but exactly what they were intended to achieve was not always clear
from project documents.


9. Freshattemptsto decentralizewere driven by the extraordinaryevents of 1998 including the fall of Suharto but
drafting ofthe lawsremainedlargely abureaucraticprocess, with little input from the regions or the public until the
first drafts were releasedtowardsthe end of 1999.

                                                7


 2.7     MIP,onthe other hand, was anewtype ofBank interventioninIndonesiawhich
 was designed to promote experimentation, innovation and learningwithin local
 governments. However for a learningand innovations (LIL) instrument, MIPwas overly
 focused on implementingsubprojects, with close to 90 percent o fproject funds allocated
 for this activity, which left few resources to support reflection, dialogue and sharing o f
 experiences. As an experimental operation however, the risks -such as from locating the
 implementingunitinthe previously untriedMinistry o fHome Affairs (MoHA) and
 allowing local government demand to drive the project - were acceptable andprovedto
bemanageable.

 Community Participation

 2.8 At design, all three projects assessedinthis report recognized the need for urban
 infrastructure and services to beresponsive to the needs o f communities, as earlier urban
 development projects inIndonesia traditionally hadbeen. InSEJUDP and BUIP,
 community infrastructure priorities were expected to become part o f the PJM (Program
Jangka Menengah), the MediumTerm Investment Programprepared by local
governments, which formed the basis for selecting investments under these operations.
The PJMwas expected to be drawn up with community consultations inevery town, but
despitenot so promising experiences underprevious IUIDP operations, neither project
had special incentives or design features to further ensure effective community
participation. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for MIPnotes that local
government proposals should be "client-responsive" but what this meant inpractice was
not spelled out inthe PAD nor was this idea translated into a process or requirementthat
successful proposals hadto follow or meet.

2.9      Despite these expectations at appraisal, the level o f community involvement in
planningurbandevelopment andmanagement under all these projects hasbeenmodest in
practice. The process o f formulating PJMs was limitedto identifiedstakeholders and
often local government officials treated the community consultation process as a mere
formality. Several local officials interviewedbythe IEGmission stated that infrastructure
selection under SEJUDP and BUIPwas mostly drivenby technical considerations, such
as bottlenecks inthe roads anddrains networks, which project technical staff - rather than
the community itself - had identified. Inthis way MIPwas responsive to the demands o f
local government, becausesubprojects were designed andproposed by local
governments, but few proposals were inturn drivenby demands made by the so-called
clients o fthe local governments -i.e. the local community. Most subprojects were
designedby local government officials, some inconsultationwith the MoHA andMIP
project staff, but with little or no formal consultation with local communities. The
experience o f all three projects suggeststhat to be responsive to community priorities
local governments need to do more thanjust give passing encouragement to community
participationinurbandevelopment planning-or imaginewithout evidence that they
know what the community wants. They needto engagemore effectively incommunity
consultation - which goes beyondmere lip service to the idea o f community participation.

                                                 8


M&E Design and Use

 2.10    The Monitoring and Evaluation(M&E) systemsinall three projects assessedin
 this report are more focused ontracking implementation-that is, contract award (inputs)
 and contract completion (outputs) -but stopped short o fmonitoring the outcome. For
 example, under SEJUDP several public toilets were constructed inBangkalantown. The
 project tracked the output, 25 units o f toilets completed, but not the outcome, such as the
 number ofpeople usingthe facilities. Whenthe IEGmissionvisited one ofthe sites, three
 completed toilets were built ina compound which already contained six public toilets and
 was usedby about 11families (resultinginalmost one toilet per family!). Most road
 investmentswere monitoredby output, such as number ofkilometerso froadcompleted,
 but few municipalities carry out traffic counts to assesswhether the outcome, measured
 by increaseduse ofthe roads or increasedvehicle speedfor example, hadbeen achieved.
 As with most Bank fundedoperations, the projects assessedhere were also highly
 focused on implementationandmeetingtight deadlines for design and implementation,
 rather than assessingthe impact on intendedbeneficiaries, notably the poor amongthem.

2.11 M&Ei s time consuming and difficult where subprojects are widely scattered
geographically and across sectors. Compared to previous such projects, BUIPmade a
noteworthy improvement inits M&E system and attempted to monitor outcome by
tracking a few selected indicators. However, for such M&E informationto beuseful to
steer and monitor a project's development effectiveness, it should be interpretedina
meaningfulmanner -which was not always the case as notedby the IEGmission during
interviews with Bank staff. For example, the number o f new house connections was
identifiedas an indicator to assess project performance but focusing only onthis indicator
to assess performance can bemisleading. Considering that none o f the planned
investments were infact made inwater supply, additional connections inthe Gianyar,
Karangasem and Tabanan districts was at the expense o f deteriorated quality of service,
either not detected or ignoredby the limitedM&E informationcollectedunder BUIP.

Safeguards and UnintendedImpacts

2.12     The IEGmissiondidnot find evidence o f significant lack o fcompliancewith
Bank safeguard requirementsfor involuntary resettlement and environmental assessment
which touched SEJUDP andBUIPparticularly. Some resettlement issues arose but were
later resolved with respect to the urbanrenewal subcomponent under SEJUDP. Under
this component, about 50 families livingontheBrantas riverbank inKotubedah, an
inner-city, low-incomeneighborhoodinthe city o fMalang, were moved away from the
river,most ofthemnot receivingprior compensation-as          recommendedby Bank
supervision missions. These families had, therefore, to use their own funds to build
shelter inthe new location. The families themselves informedthe IEGmissionthat they
had later received compensation that covered the relocation costs. Since the new location
has better access, electricity and public water stands, they expressedtheir satisfaction
withtheir new locationto IEG.

                                               9


 Borrower Performance

 2.13    The Borrower came underconsiderable pressure following the East Asian Crisis
 o f 1997/98, as well as the Bali bombing o f 2002 which further disrupted economic
 recovery. Not surprisingly, Borrower performance under these projects suffered, but
 maintaineda satisfactory stance most o fthe time. Counterpart fundingby GO1fell
 substantially short o f (US dollar denominated) targets on all projects, largelybecausethe
 sharp devaluation o f Indonesia's currency, the Rupiah, had significantly reduced the U S
 dollar value o f GO1contributions. Compliance with loan covenants was adversely
 affected as the economic outlook suddenly worsened. Local authorities -especially
 PDAMswhich were already inaprecarious financial situation -were discouragedbythe
 central government from taking on more debt, including by enteringinto SubsidiaryLoan
 Agreements(SLA) to access Bankloanfunds for infrastructure investments. Under
 BUIP,none oftheplannedSLA for PDAMscame into effect and GO1generously passed
 on Bank loan funds as grant, rather than the plannedSLAYto participating local
 governments. Apart from this instance, however, GO1has for the most part continued to
 implement difficult reforms, notably ingiving effect to far-reaching decentralization
 laws, which supported the implementationand achievements o f these projects.

 2.14    The projects were implementedthroughunits located inprovincial governments
 (SEJUDP and BUIP)or inthe case o f MIP inthe Ministryo f Home Affairs (MoHA).
 Overall, the project implementationunits functioned well to complete these projects
 Disbursementlags andimplementationdelays duringthe economic crisis andimmediate
 aftermath period from 1998-2000 dogged SEJUDP and MIPinparticular, and both
 projects' closing eventually had to be extended (by 21 and 18 months respectively) in
 order to complete the original scope o f work. The MoHA, where the MIPProject
 Management Unit (PMU) was located, was initially slow to implementthe project but
 subsequentlygathered speed (even indicatingto the IEGmission its interest incontinuing
 some o f the activities begununder MIP). Overall, the plannedscope o f works under
BUIPprogressedwithin targets butthe projecthadto be extendedby21 monthsto enable
the completion o fmainly the WesternRingRoadinDenpasar.

2.15     The BaliProvincial government, where the Provincial Project CoordinatingUnit
(PPCU) was located, clearly had ownership o fthe BUIP - one o f the first Bankprojects it
had implementeddirectly itself. Under SEJUDP, the Provincial Project Management
Office (PPMO) had to liaise with the large number ofparticipatinglocal authorities, some
o fwhom were a day's journey away. As well as complicatingproject oversight, this may
have contributed to reduced quality o fmonitoringinformationcollected from the local
governments. Inall 95 local governments participatedinthese three projects, which by
their performance have demonstratedtheir capacity as well as the importance oflocal
governments inurbandevelopment -an important theme o f this report.

Bank Performance

2.16    Bankperformance interms ofquality at entryinall three projectsis generally
satisfactory but there are a few shortcomings inproject design which are worthy o fnote.
For example inBUIP (the most expensive project to design using 160 staff weeks on
identificatiodpreparation, compared to 37 for SEJLTDP and 11for MIP), several

                                              10


 ambitious objectives - to promote PSP and improve the conservation o f Bali's cultural
 heritage - were not adequately supported byproject components or activities, which has
 impactedtheir achievement. Project financing (identifiedat appraisal) includedUS$4.7
 millionby the Asian Development Bank, the Japanese and other Bilateral Donors) and
 US$55.6 millionbyprivate investors failed to materializeinthe absence o f any formal
 commitments.

 2.17    The Bank recognized and supported the need for intensive supervision,
 particularly o f BUIP and SEJUDP, which helpedto address issues ina timely manner,
 particularly duringthe East Asian crisis and inthe aftermath o fthe Bali bombing in2002.
 While there i s no recordo f a mid-termreview for SEJUDP, the Bank fieldedtwo to three
 supervision missions per year to East Java. MIP on the other handwould have benefited
 from more resources for supervision - especially important for a learningand innovations
 loan - the lack o f which may have compromised the learningobjective o f this project.
 Over o f the implementationperiod o fboth SEJUDP and BUIP,the Bank revisedtheir
 loan agreements on several occasions, canceling intotal US$67.3 million and US$37.9
 respectively from the two loans - both due to exogenous reasons. Loan cancellation under
 SEJUDPwas mainly due to highinflationwhich made anumber o f subprojects too costly
 to be funded under the project. As notedinthe mid-term review cancellations under
 BUIP (which was made effective after the economic crisis hadbegun) these reflect large
 savings inthe U S Dollar denominated loan due to the depreciation o fthe Rupiahwhich
 allowed much greater freedom to include new activities with less (US Dollar
 denominated) loanfunds under the project. Banksupervision under these operations was
 generally flexible and supportive o f the Borrower allowing for new activities and other
changes to respond to volatile country conditions during implementation.

2.18     Bank supervision also helpedlocal governments strengthen capacities inareas not
envisaged at appraisal. For example, under MIP supervision missions recognized the
needto support local governments inthe preparation ofsubproject proposals (an area in
which many local governments hadhad little prior experience). Together with the PMU,
the Bankprovided in-depthadvice and guidance to localgovernments which improved
their capacity to prepare proposals as well as formulate innovative service ideas. During
supervision o fBUIP, the Bank suggestedimprovements to local government
procurement and land acquisitionprocedures -which were not part o fthe original project
design. Local government officials who met with the IEGmission expressedappreciation
o fBank support to pilot these changes which local officials initially found difficult to
implement.Overall, throughthese operations the Bank has contributedto demonstrating
local government capacity inurban development inIndonesia.

3.      Results Achieved by the Projects

SecondEast Java Urban Developmentproject (Ln 4017)

3.1     The projecthashelped-albeit ina small way relative to the total need- to
improve infrastructure service delivery inEast Java. Throughproject funding, 35 out o f

                                                       11


 the Province's 37" local governments serving 102 towns with a populationo f about 15
 million, investedinrehabilitating and improvingurbaninfrastructure - mainly roads and
 drains. The IEGmissionnotedthat urbanroads improvedby the project, particularly near
 town centers, are generally ingood condition. For instance, the 6 km dual carriageway
 by-pass road around the congested town of Krianjust south o f Surabaya, which was
 widened andrehabilitated underthe project, carries an estimated 5,000 vehicles per day,
 manyofwhich are heavyvehicles, easingtraffic congestion south oftheprovincial
 capital. By addressing the critical bottlenecks inthe storm drainage infrastructure, flash
 flooding has been reduced inseveral towns." Only about 10percent o fthe investments
 inwater supply envisaged at appraisal infact materialized (about Rp.100billionwas
 cancelled from this component) but the investments completed, such as the water
 treatment plant inBangkalantown and expansion o fwater supply capacity in
 Tulungagung, have helpedto increase water availability and the number o f house
 connections inthese districts. However, as project funds were dispersed across so many
 towns - many of which only undertook minor works, the project's contribution to
 improving urban infrastructure inthe Provincehas beenthrough minor increments, rather
 thanthrough a substantial leap forward.

 3.2     Several largeinvestmentsunder the project have not performed as well as
 expected. The Njanjuk by-pass, a 7 km long dual carriageway, cost an estimated Rp.20
 billionand i s the single largest investmentplanned under the project. However, when it
 was inspected by the IEGmission almost four years after SEJUDP closed, only two out
 o f the plannedfour lanes hadbeencompleted and opened to traffic. The Gadang-
Bumiayuroad cum bridgeinthe city o fMalang, an investment o fRp.5 billionunder the
project, was expected to ease traffic moving betweenthe east andwest sides o f the city,
the second largest city inEast Java with apopulation o f 800,000, but carries littletraffic
due to its poor location. Access to this bridgeis made difficult bythe need for vehicles to
navigate through an extremely congested market at the western end along a badly
maintainedstreet. The plannedfull-scale approachroad on the eastern side was not built
owing to delays inacquiring the necessary land. Under the SEJUDP, Rp.13 billionwas
invested inaccessing a gravity-based water source andpipe system to increase the
productioncapacity o fthe P D A M (water utility) for the district o f Tulungagung (urban
population370,000). But only 60 percent o f the plannedincrease inwater production
capacity infact materializedbecause o f greater than aGticipated silting inthe area.

3.3      Project financed investmentsinthe solid waste, sanitation and sewerage sectors
also have several shortcomings that preventedthe delivery o f improved services insome
cases. The city government inKediri (population 250,000) for instance, made several
investmentsinwaste management infrastructure with unsatisfactory results. The
sanitation treatment plant constructed under SEJUDP without a power source i s still not
operational, almost 8 years after the main physical works were completed. Another
treatment plant constructed under the project at the Kediri slaughterhouse was intendedto
promote the sanitary disposal o f offal and other waste originating from the
slaughterhouse. But when the IEGmissionvisited the site, the buildingshowed structural

10. Only Surabaya(whichhadits own separate IUIDPproject), Sidoarjo (whichwas disqualified),andBatuTown
(whichwas created after SEJUDP effectiveness,were excluded.
11.A nine-cityevaluationcommissionedbythe projectestimates that the height of inundationshas declined by 72
percentandthe durationhas declinedby 68 percentover the projectperiod(Pt.Bina Asih Consultants,p.12).

                                               12


 fissures inseveral places, and the plant was abandoned and overgrown and no longer in
 use. Without this service, the uncontrolleddisposal o fhazardous animalwaste poses a
 public healthrisk to the town's population. Finally apoorly designedretainingwall, built
 under the project as a purportedenvironmental improvementto the solid waste disposal
 site, has already collapsed in several places. As a result, garbage has started to spill
 outside the controlled area, which can lead to a serious healthproblems infuture.
 SimilarlyinMalang, the city sludgetreatment plant is no longer functioning, while the
 environmental integrityo f the solid waste disposal site for the Tulungagung district is at
 risk following thebreakdownofthebulldozingequipment purchasedundertheproject to
 properly manage the facility.

 3.4     Incontrast, several smaller projectinvestmentscontributedto improvedurban
 service delivery. For example the modular sewerage system - a low cost, low technology
 methodusinga series o f small tanks to purifyhumanwaste - was pilotedinMalang city
 andis servingabout 1,600 families now. Fees collectedfrom connection anduser charges
 have not resulted inthe plannedrevolving fund to finance more such systems inother
 areas o f the city, but are financing the O&M o f the system. However the facilities are not
 beingutilizedto full capacity and several community residents who met with the IEG
 missionremainunconvincedabout the advantages o f their connecting to the system,
 preferringinstead the open drains or river for which they do not have to pay anything.

 3.5     While most project investments, with some exceptions noted above, are still
 operational four years after project closing, the continuedusage o f these investmentsinto
 their fullintended lifespanis unlikely-mainlydueto fundingconstraints for the O&M.
 The majority o finvestments underthe project are inthe roads sector, which are no more
than 5 years old and still only requireroutine maintenance. The IEGmission saw
 evidence o fpatching inthese roads indicatingthat routinemaintenance i s beingcarried
 out. However, it i s unlikelylocal governments will have sufficient funds to carry out
periodic heavier maintenance which will become due shortly. The periodic maintenance
o f the KrianBy-pass, due in2004/2005, i s several months behind schedule and only a
small part o fthe roadhadbeenoverlaidwhen it was inspected by the IEGmissioninthe
last quarter o f2005. Inaddition, several pieces o f equipment purchased under the project,
suchas bulldozers and skip bins for waste collection, have already fallen into disuse due
to lack o f spares or other maintenance.

3.6     SEJUDP's main contribution to capacity buildingi s through enabling local
governments and PDAMs to "learn-by-doing". Many local governments are now able to
prepare their mediumterm investment plans or PJM, a preconditionfor sub-loan
effectiveness under SEJUDP, andwhich continue to be used for infrastructure
investments inthesejurisdictions. The experience gained through implementing SEJUDP
has helped several local PIUofficials as well as PPMOstaff at the provincial levelto
move on to more influentialpositions. InTulungagung district for example, two former
project staff members now hold the positions o fBhupati (mayor) andthe head o f
Bappeda (local planning agency).

3.7     Theproject has hadless success instrengthening the financial capacity o f
participating local governments andwater utilities. Local governments created Revenue
Increasing Action Plans (RIAP), while the PDAMs formulated a FinancialRecovery

                                                      13


 Action Plans (FRAP) andboth instruments were expected to assist local authorities
 improve their financial situations. Insome municipalities, such as Kediri, the targets for
 locally generated revenuewere met infour out o f the past five years and are still being
 closely tracked today. Similarly, some PDAMs are usingthe FRAP as aplanning
 instrument, notably inTulungagung which has gone so far as to update its FRAP as o f
 2004. However, the financial situation o fmost participating local governments and
 PDAMshas not improvedsubstantially (insome cases it has evenworsened). Most local
 governments investedinlocalroads and drains which have low financial returns, and are
 facing difficulties inrepayingthe subsidiaryloans. Similarly, as PDAMs have not been
 able to increase tariffs nor, inseveral instances their customer base, the returns have been
 less than expected. InTulungagung, for example, despite only 33 percent o f the urban
 area being servedbypipedwater12,the PDAMstill has excess capacity. Several local
 governments and PDAMs complained o ftheir debt burdento the IEGmission and
 Bangkalan P D A M i s no longer servicing their SLA borrowings under the project. The
precarious financial position o fPDAMs inparticular i s threatening the continued
 effective functioning o f these institutions as well as the operation and maintenance o f
 infrastructurefunded under the project.

3.8       While the S A R notes that another objective o f the project was to formulate an
urban andregional development strategy for East Java, the provincial authorities
themselves have not made this a priority thus far. A follow-on Bankproject to SEJUDP,
proposed since 1995 andnow calledthe Strategic Infrastructure Development and
ReformProject, i s still inpreparation stage and appearsto enjoy only lukewarmsupport
from the provincial authorities. Reluctance to take on the foreign exchange risks o f such
borrowing, especially givenrecent experiences o f exchange rate turmoil inIndonesia,
was mentionedby several local officials interviewedby the IEGmission, as a key reason
for this lack o f interest.

3.9      The IEGmissioncould find little evidence that the project made a substantial
contributionto mitigating the impact o f Indonesia's economic crisis, the project objective
added after the East Asian crisis. Withbetterhindsighttoday o fthe enormous scale o f the
crisis itself and the relatively small scale o f the project, SEJUDP could not have been
expected to make much difference to the impact o f exogenous factors beyondthe control
o f any one operation.

Bali UrbanInfrastructure project (Ln 4155)

3.10     Bali Urban Infrastructure Project (BUIP)contributedto substantially improving
urbaninfrastructure inthe ProvinceofBali. All ninelocalgovernments inBali covering
an urbanpopulationo f less than 2 millionparticipatedinthe project and usedproject
funds to improve urbaninfrastructure. Roadinfrastructure improvements account for 33
percent o f final project costs and the ICRreports that 912km o furbanroads inthe
Province were rehabilitated under the project. The IEGmissioninspected several o f these
rehabilitated urbanroads inDenspasar, Karangasem and Gianyar, nearly all o f which are
ingoodcondition. Two newroadsbuiltunderthe project, the WesternRingRoad

12. Lack o fdemand for PDAMservices is mainly due to availability o f other sources o fwater, such as wells, rivers
etc.

                                                14


 (5.3km) inDenpasar, the provincial capital of Bali, and the Tohpati-Kusambha (20km),
 an inter-district road connecting the south and easternparts o f Bali, have eased
 congestion andreducedtravel time. The Tohpati-Kusamba inparticular has resulted in
 reduction of travel time between Karangasem district and Denpasar, a distance o f about
 50km, from 1% hours to just halfanhour. These roads do not yet linkthe originally
 planned urban centers (about 0.7 km o fthe Western RingRoadup to the tourist area o f
 Kuta and about 4km o fthe Tohpati-Kusamba roadup are yet to be completed). However
 as bothroads linkto sizeable access roads this shortcoming has not substantially
 underminedthebenefits from these investments,as evidencedbythehightraffic volumes
 onbothroads13.

 3.11 InNusa Tenggara Barat (NTB) province, BUIPhas contributedto improving
 urbanroads and drains and inall, 104kmofroads and47km ofdrains were rehabilitated
 or reconstructed under the project. Ofthe investmentsinNTB o fparticular note i s the
 newDasan Agung bridgeinMataram, theprovincialcapital, which replaced an old,
 unsteady and congested suspension bridge. The widening o f the ringroad around
 Mataramwas also begunwith BUIP funds and 6.3 km(out o f a total length o f 27km)
 have beenwidened from two to four-lanes. As a result o f the widening, traffic volumes
 on the northernpart have increasedby 40 percent but the IEGmissionnotedheavy
 congestion at several bottlenecks where the new four-lane sections o f the road mergeinto
 the oldtwo-lane road.

 3.12    Other substantial investmentsunder BUIP are indrains, terminals and solidwaste
management inBali. The IEGmission inspected several rehabilitated drain systems,
includinginKutawhere the new systemcomplete with pedestrian walkways and disabled
 access replaced an older systemwhich could not keeppace with rapid development o f the
 area. InKarangasem the solid waste disposal site upgraded with project funds i s
functioning well with an earth covering laid every 2 days, a functioning treatment plant
containing the leachate emission, and a small-scale but functioning composting facility
which provides fertilizer for gardens managedby the local government. However, the
sanitation treatment plant inKarangasem has cracked retainingwalls and i s no longer in
use, and project officials informedthe IEGmission that none o f the four treatment plants
constructed under BUIP are functioning as planned. Similarly, three bus terminals were
builtunderthe project butwhenthe IEGmissionvisitedthe terminals inKarangasem and
Gianyar, neitherwere beingusedat even 10 percent their capacity. Poor locationchoice
bylocalgovernment and lack o fincentives for bus operators as well as commuters to use
the new facilities, which do not have good access to the commercial areas ofthe town,
have forced both local governments to consider usingthe space for alternate activities
such as exhibition halls.

3.13     While the project has contributedto improving urban infrastructure, notably in
roads, drains and waste management, it has had little success inimproving water supply
infrastructure inBali. BUIP envisaged an unrealistic andperhaps incompatiblemix o f
project lending, limitedgrant funding by others and private sector finance to pay for
investments inwater supply. Neither the plannedsubsidiary loan agreements (SLA) nor

13. The ICR estimates an ERRinexcess of 20 percent for majorurbanroadinvestmentsunder BUIP,
includingTohpatiKusambaandthe WesternRingRoad.

                                                           15


 private sector financing were mobilized and the seven PDAMswhich were to participate
 inBUIPwent for grant moneymorereadilyavailable from GOI. PDAMofficialswho
 metwiththe IEGmissionindicatedthat whiletheir investments were on a muchsmaller
 scale thanplannedunder BUIP, they continued to provide house connections as planned
 -sometimesbecauseofpoliticalpressure.Despitethegreatercoverage,therefore, several
 officials indicated that this was often achieved at the expenseo f service quality. The IEG
 mission also notedthat insome parts o f Gianyar and Karangasem districts, residents
 often collect anduse the water rather than access directly from the tap becauseo f low
 water pressure.

 3.14     Most o f the infrastructure improvements under the project were completed
 recently and are still ingood condition. However, local governments do not have
 adequate O&M budgets to carry out substantial maintenance andrepair activities, which
 will become an issue over time as these infrastructure investments age. InGianyar, local
 officials informedthe IEGmissionthat the O&M budget for roads covers only routine
 maintenance and eventhat, only on 10percent o f the roadnetwork. When suddenrepairs
 or substantial maintenance i s needed(such as was the case with a road visitedby the IEG
 missioninGianyar which was severally damaged by heavy vehicles exceeding the design
 weight o f the pavement), local officials claim they do not have funds to repair the
 infrastructure. Similarly, sanitation treatment plants constructed under BUIP are barely
 functioning as local governments have not repaired the cracks inthe collectiontanks. The
 IEGmission also notedinadequate maintenance o fNTB's newly reconstructed drains
 which are cloggedwith garbage. These shortcomings, apparent within one year o fproject
 closing, suggest that the infrastructure investmentsunder BUIP are unlikely to be usable
 to their full lifespan.

 3.15     Theproject contribution to strengtheninglocal government capacity was mainly
 throughpiloting procurement reforms and new procedures to manage land acquisition for
 development purposes -neither o fwhich were part o f the original project design.
 Corruption and collusion i s a major barrier to development inIndonesia as it contributes
 to the cost of development projects and one o f the recommendations o f the Country
 Procurement Assessment (World Bank, 2001) was to use post-q~alification'~for the
procurement o f simple goods andworks. BUIPwas one o f the first projects to implement
 thisrecommendation and as aresult, was able to reduceproject costs byas muchas 30
percent o f owner estimates. Participatinglocal governments are generally satisfied with
the quality ofworks, which they feel hasnot beencompromiseddespite the substantial
reduction incontract value. With the presidential decree No.80/2003 post-qualification
has been incorporated into nationalguidelines; becauseo f their experiences underBUIP,
local governments inbothBali andNTB provinceshad already converted to the post-
qualificationmethod and are ahead o f other provincesingivingeffect to these guidelines.
Since localurbaninfrastructure improvements are mainly small-scale and suited for post
qualificationprocurement, these reforms have strengthened the capacity o f local
governments to ensure competitive bidding for urbandevelopment projects intheir
jurisdictions.



14. Postqualification allows any party, not only those who have beenprequalified as technically competent, to bid for
contracts.As the bidders are no longer known beforehand, the incidence o f collusion can be reduced

                                                            16


 3.16     The capacity buildingfrom learningnewprocedures to manage landacquisition
 under BUIP i s mostly confinedto Denpasar municipality which acquired landfor the
 Western RingRoad. Landconsolidation with little input from the affected landowners i s
 the conventionalmethodof acquiringlandfor development purposes inIndonesiabut in
 the case o fthe Western RingRoad, the landowners were offeredthree choices: land
 consolidation, land swaps and compensation. Landconsolidation continued to be the
 preferred method for land acquisition, bothby the community as well as the local
 government but under BUIPthe consolidation processwas done transparently in
 partnership with the community. Community leaderswho met with the IEGmission
 expressed satisfaction with the land acquisitionprocess followed under BUIP as did local
 government officials, who plan to continue with the same consultative process when
 acquiring other lands for development purposes.

 3.17      UnderBUIPtoo, local governments preparedRevenue Increasing Action Plans
 (RIAP)whilePDAMspreparedFinancialRecoveryAction Plans (FRAP)but their use as
 planning andmanagement tools, particularlyinsetting taxes and tariffs, has been limited
 so far. Knowledge o f the details o fthe RIAPsare often limitedto officials inthe revenue
unit, butother localofficials who met with the IEGmissionfelt that revenue realizationis
behindRIAPtargets. Inthe case o fFRAPs, targets were water tariffs have not been
achieved or are many monthdyearsbehindschedule (Box 3). However, there have been
some improvements inrecent months; Gianyar PDAMhas effected substantial tariff
revisions inSeptember 2005 and Tabanan PDAMofficials informed the IEGmissionthat
they have securedin-principle approval from the local legislature to implementtariff
increases inline with the FRAP.

Box 3: Water Tariffs actual vs.FRAP targets
                               -

 District                              Bangli       Klungkung Gianyar               Tabanan        Karangasem
  Current Tariff (average)                850             750             1100         585               1000
 Break-even Tariff (average)"            2200            1600            1600         1676              I800
Source: IEGmission interviews with P D A M staff

3.18     The objective o fpromoting private sector participation(PSP) has not yet been
achieved as there i s no new PSP ininfrastructure services inBali16.BUIP funded study
conducted into exploring the possibilities for PSP inthe water sector has ledto little
practical result but a similar study, also financed underBUIP,has made a contribution
towards the possibility o f PSP insolid waste management. A company, jointly ownedby
four local governments insouthern Bali, has been set up to operate with PSP an
integrated waste management facility which will also produce electricity for the national
gridusingbiogas. While aprivate investor hasbeen identifiedto construct the facility,
negotiations (mainly regarding the power purchasing agreement between the investor and
PLN, the national electricity company), are proceeding slowly and some critical issues,
such as the power purchase price, are yet to be agreedbefore construction canbegin..

3.19     The project's contribution to improvingthe conservation andmanagement o fthe
culturalheritage o f the Province o fBali was mainly through its support to establish the


15. Does not reflect the more than 100% increase inoil prices effected inOctober 2005.
16.The only exception being the water utility serving the tourist hotels inthe Kuta area since the early 1990s.

                                                17


 Bali HeritageTrust (BHT), a semi-government body, part financed by the Provincial
 Government and the private sector and established by decree to provide systematic
 management and conservation o f Bali's cultural assets. Since its inception in2003 the
 BHT's most notable achievement hasbeenthe standardization o fholy coins - which are
 an essential part of Balinese religious festivals andthe establishment o f a factory to
 produce them inBali itself. Several other activities were plannedunder BUIP but made
 only a limitedcontributionto achieving this objective; the Taman Ujung (water palace) in
 Karangasem, the rehabilitation o fwhich cost Rp.10billionunder BUIP, i s attracting only
 a handfbl o f visitors and little progress has beenmade on three other activities plannedat
 project appraisal, namely improvements to the BesakihTemple Complex, the compilation
 o f an inventory ofhistoric places and signage inIndonesian and other languages at
 heritage sites. The limitedresults o fwhat was an add-on minor objective, do not detract,
 however, from the other more important achievements o fthe project.

 Municipal InnovationsProject (Ln 4440)

 3.20    MIPhas successfully demonstratedthat municipalitiesinIndonesiaare capable of
 innovations inservice delivery. For example, inBandar Lampung (Lampung Province),
 space has beencreated and formalized for greater community participation inthe
 municipal budgetingprocess. InBogor (West Java Province) the municipality has
 expended on the public information booths piloted under MIPto create an intensively
 usedinternet-basedpublic information system. InDenpasar (Bali Province), thebuilding
 permit systemhasbeenmade more transparent and accessible to the public. Manyofthe
 changeshave been small adjustments to existing systems, such as providing space for
 public feedback regardingmunicipal activities. Only 58 local governments participated in
 the project but where subprojects have beensuccessful and the innovations have been
 expanded or improved, there i s substantial institutionaldevelopment within the local
 government.

 3.21    Thus MIP supported sub-projects focused on changing andimprovingthe existing
ways o f doing things inmunicipalities. The improvements tested by these subprojects
were considered "innovative" iftheyhadnot beentriedby a particular local government.
For example, a number o f local authorities submittedproposals to improve their solid
waste management by introducingcomposting methods new to them-but which were
nothingnew or innovative from a broader perspective. InSurabaya (East Java Province)
for example, public complaints regardingmunicipal services were previously directed to
an anonymous Post Office Box number-ironically        located inJakarta many hundredso f
kilometers away. MIP instead supported the establishment o f an integrated complaints
systemwithin the municipality itself, allowing the public to make complaints inperson,
inwriting andbyphone, fax, text messageor email. Themost commonunderstanding of
"innovation" the IEGmissionfound ininterviewswith local officials, was captured by
this idea ofnew andpositive changefor them.

3.22     While local governments expected to see improvements, whether these changes
actually increasedthe efficiency o f local governments has not been systematically
assessed, either by the local authorities themselves or under the project. For some
innovations, administrative costs may exceed the benefits. InSurabaya, for instance, the
IEGmissionencountered aroomful ofstaffmanningthe integrated public complaints

                                                         18


  system, even though ittypically received only one or two complaints a day. The mission
  found that whenthey hadproblems with urban services, most citizens headed directly for
  the public complaints offices o fthe utilities themselves. Invery few instances didthe
  IEGmissionfindattempts to clearlyidentifyor articulate the expected costs andbenefits,
  and as a result whether the innovation i s efficient or otherwise remains unknown.

  3.23    While innovationwas encouraged at the level o f each local government, there i s
  little evidence that successful innovations have beenreplicated elsewhere. Several
  municipalities are experimentingwith similar innovations such as public information
  systems, composting for solid waste management, and increasing the transparency and
  accessibility o fpermit issue. However, there does not seem to be any cross-learning or
  established channels and space for municipalities to learn from eachother. Local
  government officials inBogor (West Java Province) were unaware o f any other local
  governments attempting vermicomposting" for solid waste management but two other
  municipalitieswere providedwith funds under the MIP itself to test this same
  technology. While few local governments expressedknowledge or interest ininnovations
  attempted by other local governments, they were more responsive to informationflowing
  along the old, centralized channels from, for example, MoHA.

  3.24    The project has not beenas successful insystematically capturing and
  disseminating the learning from the sub-projects. Firstly, there are shortcomings inthe
  quality o f informationabout municipal innovations available for dissemination. None o f
  the participatinglocal authorities have undertaken a systematic review o ftheir innovation
  experiences, nor have they beenencouraged to systematically reflect upon what worked
  and what didnot about the innovation. MoHA has recently attempted to briefly document
  some o f the successful innovations - which may leadto a more in-depthanalysis. Also,
 dissemination activities under MIPhave focused exclusively on the successes, ignoring
 the potentially rich learning from the less successful experiences. InSurabaya (East Java)
 where computer-based public informationbooths supported underMIP was a failure,
 local officials held strong views and had advice to give to other local governments
 contemplating similar innovations. But other than verbally communicating some o fthese
.thoughts to MoHA, they hadneither documented nor otherwise shared these experiences
 with other local governments. Secondly, there are also deficiencies inthe platforms
 selected to disseminate the learningfrom this project. Few local government officials the
 IEGmissionmet were even aware ofthe webpage dedicated to municipalinnovations
 maintainedby MoHA. The workshops organized bythe project to enable local authorities
 to meet face-to-face have beenmore successful indisseminating the experiences o f the
 subproject but as the ICRnotes, insufficient funds were allocated under the project to
 carry out dissemination as neededunder such a learningproject.

 3.25     Theproject's final objective, improving centralgovernment practices affecting
municipalities, has not yielded tangibleresults, which can reliably be linkedto the project
 itself. However, duringthe design and implementation o f MIP,the relationshipbetween
the center, mainly the MoHA, andthe local authorities underwent a fundamental change



 17. Vermicompostinginvolves introducing aspeciesofworm into the collectedwaste to speedupthe composting
process.An added attractionis that the worm also has a commercialvalue (it is used incosmetics).

                                                 19


 and the power and prominence o f M o H A inlocal government activity has reduced
 substantially.

 3.26     The sustainability o fproject benefits has to be assessedon two levels, namely the
 sustainability o f subprojects themselves on the one handand the "spirit" o f innovation in
 local government on the other. While those subprojects which continue to hnction and
 improve are likely to be sustainable, about 50 percent o fthe initiatives begun under MIP
 are no longer operational. Often, the continuation o f innovative initiatives depends on the
 existence o f a local champion, often the mayor or regency chief. For example, the
 "masjid-on-line" initiative inKota Bogor - an expansion o fthe MIP,i s strongly
 supported by the mayor (who was also the vice mayor duringMIP).Despite MoHA's
 plans to resurrect the award system introduced under MIPto recognize local government
 innovations, it i s unlikely to be sufficient to sustain the "spirit o f innovation" among local
 governments or to encourage them to undertake risky experiments with their own hnds -
 on which there are many and increasing demands for service delivery.

 4.       Ratings

 SecondEast Java Urban Development Project (Ln 4017-IND): Project objectives are
 substantially relevant to the priorities identifiedby the GO1and the Bank insuch
 documents as the current National Development Program (PROPENAS) and the Country
 Assistance Strategy (CAS). Efficacy, however, in achievingthese objectives i s modest, as
 the project has only made a small Contribution to improving urbaninfrastructureinEast Java
 - not all the planned investments were carried out and a number of project investments
 are either incomplete or no longer inuse. Efficiency i s also modest because large
 investmentsunderthe project, such as the by-pass road around the town o fNjanjuk and
increased supply capacity o fthe water company inTulungagung, have only yielded a fraction
o ftheir expected benefits. The overall outcome i s therefore rated moderately unsatisfactory
 since there are major shortcomings inachievingproject objectives. Sustainability i s unlikely,
mainly because local governments have not allocated sufficient fimds for O&M activities and
maintenance activities are already behindschedule. Institutional developmentimpact i s
modest mainly becausethe financial capacities o f local governments and localwater
companies responsible for urban infrastructure remain weak. Bankperformance i s rated
satisfactory: intensivesupervision helpedkeepthe project moving despite the onset ofthe
economic crisis soon after effectiveness andBorrowerperformance i s also satisfactory
especially inview o fthe efficient work done by the project unit inliaisingwith the very large
numberofparticipating local authorities.

Bali Urban DevelopmentProject (Ln 4155- IND):The objectives ofthe project are
substantially relevant to the priorities identifiedby the Borrower as well as the Bank.
However, mainly because o fthe project's limitedengagement inthe water sector - originally
allocated more than one thirdo fproject costs, efficacy inimproving urban infrastructure in
Bali i s rated modest. However, project activities that were carried out insupport ofthis
objective, mainly inimproving urbanroads, have highreturns and efficiency i s therefore
ratedsubstantial. Overall outcome i s rated moderately satisfactory becausewhile the
project contributed to improving urban infrastructure -particularly inurban roads and drains,
there are significant shortcomings; water supply infrastructure remains inadequate, the
capabilities o f local water companies remain weak andonly a small contribution has been
made inpromotingprivate sector participation inurban infrastructure. Sustainability is

                                               20


unlikely for the same reasons as the previous project, namely local governments have not
allocated sufficient funds for O&M activities and some investmentshave already fallen into
disuse. Institutional development impact i s substantial mainlybecause the project piloted
significant procurement reforms, notably the use o fpost-qualification, now incorporated into
national guidelines. Bankperformance i s rated satisfactory mainly because o fintensive
supervision which provided good support to local officials to complete project activities as
well as pilot differentprocedures, particularly inprocurement and landacquisition for urban
development. Borrowerperformance i s also satisfactory, especially inview o fthe commit-
mentandcompetence o ftheprovincial andlocalofficials inimplementingtheproject.

Municipal Innovation Project (Ln 4440-IND): The objectives o fthe project are
substantially relevant inthe context o fIndonesia's ongoing decentralization reforms which
came into effect duringproject implementation.Efficacy inachieving objectives i s also
substantial, as the project demonstrated local government capacities to formulate and
implementimprovements inthe management anddelivery ofurbanservices. Efficiency is
substantial as the project's demonstration effect i s substantial. The overall outcome i s
nevertheless rated as satisfactory because the project achieved its major relevant objectives
that allowed municipalities to be innovative inurbanmanagement. Sustainability however i s
ratedas unlikely, becauseparticular innovations are drivenby champions-mostly
individuals who remain inplace for limitedperiods o f time. Institutional development
impact i s modest becausemany local governmentshave to do more to internalize into their
regular operations, the learning from the innovations introduced. Bankperformance i s rated
satisfactory, because o f good project design with appropriate risks for a learning and
innovationloan (LIL) and good supervisionto ensure that neededimplementation support
was provided to local governments. Borrowerperformance i s also rated as satisfactory
becauseo f sound policies bythe Indonesian Government to support decentralization and
municipal services andgood implementationo f a difficult project by the Project Management
Unit(PMU).

5.      Lessons Learned

     Localgovernments in Indonesia should continue to build upon their demonstrated
     capacity to successfully implement improvements in infrastructure delivery, which
     has also been supportedby a long line of Bankprojects. However, local
    governments could be more responsivestill to urban development needs expressed
     through local communityparticipation. Communityparticipation inurban
     investment planningis often viewed only a formality and investments plans are often
     only an expression o f technical priorities which are identified by local officials
    themselves. Local governments needto engage more effectively incommunity
    consultation to ensure that urban investment plans also reflect expressed community
    priorities.

    A cross-sectoralframework such as Integrated UrbanInfrastructure
                                   ,
    Development Program (IUIDP), can work wellfor local governmentsprovided the
    investment resources within it are sufficiently concentrated to adequately address
    needs in all included sectors. When resources are spread too thinly over a large area
    interms o fneed, itcanunderminethe expectedbenefits ofintegratedplanning-

                                           21


  resultinginincremental, rather than substantial, improvements inurban
  infrastructure.

e All stakeholders, including local governments themselves,need to agree and
  understand clearly thepurpose behind local innovations-be it to increase
  efficiency, to increase client-responsiveness-rather than treat innovation as a
  benefitper se. Local governments inIndonesia are both interested and capable o f
  introducing innovative service delivery improvements, but while new approaches to
  municipal service delivery should be encouraged, new may not necessarily mean
  better. Local government should always articulate andmonitor the expected benefits
  from the innovation.

  As recognized inthe 2003 CAS, theBank has experienceand a rich knowledge
  basefrom many years of investing in local services through government (and more
  recently local government) drivenprojects. Ensuringthat local governments are
  always included as partners, with continuous emphasis upon improvingtheir
  performance, should be a mainstay o f all Bank assistanceto local service provision.

  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) systems need to be designedand implemented
  to track outcomes related toproject objectives, as well as the inputs and outputs of
  project activitiesthat will help achieve these outcomes.All three projects assessed
  inthis report focusedmainlyon successful implementationandinsufficientefforts
  were made to monitor the achievement of expectedbenefits -andpoor outcomes
  were not always identifiedintime. M&Ei s particularly important ingeographically
  spread-out projects and tracking meaningful indicators (which have a plausible link
  to project objectives and activities) can make up for the lack o f frequent supervision
  missions to participatingtowns.

                                          22


Bibliography

BadanPusat Statistik(BPS-StatisticsIndonesia).2000.Population Census.
http://vmw.bps.no.id

Pt BinaAsih Consultants.Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation Report.

Pt.Lenggogeni.2004. Quarterly Report I V - Nusa TenggaraBarat Poverty Alleviation
Project (NTB-PAP), Mataram, ProvincialProject CoordinationUnit (NTB - PAP)

Lewis,BlaneD.2003. "Local GovernmentBorrowingandRepaymentinIndonesia:
Does FiscalCapacityMatter?"in WorldDevelopment, Vol. 31. No. 6, pp. 1047-1063.

Suryahadi,Asep and Sudarno Sumarto. 2001. The ChronicPoor, the Transient Poor, and
the Vulnerable in IndonesiaBefore and After the Crisis,DevelopmentEconomics
Working Paper 113, East AsianBureauofEconomicResearch.
http://www.eaber.org/intranet/documents/41/113/SMERU Suryahadi 01.pdf

WorldBank. 2005. The effectiveness of WorldBank supportfor community-based and -
driven development - an IEG evaluation. WashingtonD.C., the World Bank.

World Bank. 2004. Indonesia: Averting an Infrastructure Crisis.A Frameworkfor Policy
and Action. WashingtonD.C., The World Bank.

World Bank.2003a. Cities in Transition: Urban Sector Review in an Era of
Decentralization in Indonesia, DisseminationPaper 7, The World Bank.

World Bank.2003b. Country Assistance Strategyfor Indonesia, 2003, WashingtonD.C.,
The World Bank.

World Bank.2003c.Decentralizing Indonesia: A Regional Public ExpenditureReview.
WashingtonD.C., The World Bank.

World Bank.2001.Indonesia: Reforming the Public Procurement System, Country
ProcurementAssessment, WashingtonD.C., The World Bank.

World Bank. 1995. CountryAssistance Strategyfor Indonesia,1995,WashingtonD.C.,
The WorldBank.

World Bank. 1994.Indonesia: Stability, Growth and Equity in REPELITA VI,
WashingtonD.C., The World Bank.

                                                23


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

SECOND EAST             JAVAURBANDEVELOPMENT                PROJECT(LOAN            4017-IND)


                                                   Appraisal             Actual or current estimate
                                                    estimate
Total project cost                                   244.2                          107.7
Loan amount                                          142.7                          76.3
Date Physical components completed                 03/31/2000                    12/31/2001



Proiect Dates
                                                    Original                       Actual
Appraisal                                                                        0511511995
Board approval                                                                   05/16/1996
Signing                                                                          09/23/1996
Effectiveness                                      1211311996                    12113/1996
Closing date                                       03/31/2000                    12131I2001




                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      N" Staff weeks                         US$('OOO)
Identification/Preparation                 37.0                                89.1
AppraisallNegotiation                      50.5                               150.8
Supervision                               253.6                               597.2
ICR                                        14.4                                49.0
Total                                     355.5                               886.1
Dollar costs incurred before FY2000 are adjusted upward by 15% to reflect direct cost values.

                                                24


Mission Data
                                Date    No. of Specializationsrepresented        Performancerating
                           fmonth/vear) Persons                                Impe.Prog  Dev. Objtvs.
Identification/ Preparation March/April    7   1 Urban planner, 1 Institutional
                            1995               Specialist, 1 FinancialAnalyst,
                                               1 EnvironmentalSpecialist, 1
                                               Municipal Engineer, 1
                                               Operations Officer (Engineer),
                                               1Social Scientist.
AppraisallNegotiation      July/ August    9   1 Urban Planner, 1
                            1995               Management Specialist, 1
                                               Urban Specialist, 2 Operations
                                               Officers (1 Municipal
                                               Engineering Background, 1
                                               Transport), 1 Social Impact
                                               Specialist, 1 Environmental
                                               Specialist, 1 Financial
                                               Specialist
Supervision                May 1996       12   1 Urban Planner, 1Lawyer, 2         S           S
                                               Procurement Specialists, 2
                                               DisbursementAnalysts, 2
                                               Municipal Engineers,2
                                               Environmental Specialists,2
                                               FinancialAnalysts
                           December        3   1 Urban Planner, 1 Municipal         S          S
                           1996                Engineer, 1 Procurement
                                               Specialist
                           March 1997     10   2 Operations Officers, 1 Urban       S          S
                                               Environment Specialist, 1
                                               Municipal Engineer, 1
                                               Resettlement Specialist, 1
                                               Urban Planner, 2 Financial
                                               Analysts, 1 Environmental
                                               Specialist, 1 Human
                                               Resources Development
                                               Specialist
                           July 1997      6    1Urban Environment                  S           S
                                               Specialist, 1 Municipal
                                               Engineer, 1 Resettlement
                                               Specialist, 1 Urban Planner, 1
                                               Operations Officer, 1Financial
                                               Analvst
                           November       10   1 Municipal Engineer, 1             S           S
                           1997                Resettlement Specialist, 1
                                               Urban Planner, 1Operations
                                               Officer, 1 FinancialAnalyst, 2
                                               Environmental Specialists.
                           February       7    1 Urban Planner, 1 Operations       S           S
                           1998                Officer (Municipal Engineer), 1
                                               FinancialAnalyst, 1Urban
                                               Environment Specialist, 1
                                               Social Scientist, 1 Urban
                                               Development Specialist, 1
                                               Water & Sanitation Specialist
                           July 1998      8    1 Urban Planner, 1Operations        U          S
                                               Officer (Municipal Engineer),
                                               FinancialAnalyst, 1
                                               Resettlement Specialist, 2
                                               Water & Sanitation Specialists,
                                               1 Urban Transport Specialist, 1
                                               Environmental Specialist
                           November       7    1 Urban Planner, 1 Operations       S          S
                           1998                Officer (Municipal Engineer), 1
                                               Financial Analyst, 1
                                               Resettlement Specialist, 1
                                               Water & Sanitation Specialist,
                                               1 Environmental Soecialist. 1

                           25


          Date     No. of  Specializations represented     Performance rating
      (month/year) persons                               Impe.Prog  Dev. Objtvs.
                          Social SDecialist
      March 1999      8   2 Urban Planners, 1                5           5
~~




                          Operations Officer (Municipal)
                          Engineer, 1 Financial Analyst,
                          1 ResettlementSpecialist, 1
                          Environmental Specialist, 1
                          Water & Sanitation Specialist,
                          1 Social Specialist
      July 1999       7   1 Urban Planner, 1 Operations       5          5
                          Officer (Municipal Engineer), 1
                          Financial Analyst, 1
                          ResettlementSpecialist, 1
                          Environmental Specialist, 1
                          Water & Sanitation Specialist,
                          1 Social Specialist
      November        8   1Urban Planner, 2 Operations        5          5
      1999                Officers (Municipal Engineers).
                          1 FinancialAnalyst, 1
                          Resettlement Specialist, 1
                          EnvironmentalSpecialist, 1
                          Water & Sanitation Specialist,
                          1 Social Specialist
      December        6   2 Operations Officers              5           5
      2000                (Municipal Engineers), !
                          Financial Analyst, 1
                          Environmental Specialist, 1
                          Social Specialist, 1Water &
                          Sanitation Specialist.

                                                         26


BALI URBAN           INFRASTRUCTURE                PROJECT         (LOAN     4155-IND)


                                                                 Appraisal                        Actual or
                                                                  Estimate                    current estimate
Total project cost                                                  278.0                          104.7
Loan amount                                                         110.0                           72.1
Date physical components completed                               12/31/2002                      09/30/2004




                                                              Original                    Actual
                                                                             __.-
Appraisal Mission                                                                       01;17/1995
Board approval                                                                          05/06/1997
Signing                                                                                 06/09/1997
Effectiveness                                               09/04/1997                  09/04/1997
Closing date                                P               12/31/2002                  09/30/2004




                                                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             N" Staff weeks                          us$~ooo)
IdentificationIPreparation                       160.20                               659.2
AppraisallNegotiation                              19.20                               89.6
Supervision                                      226.69                               654.38
ICR                                                14.34                               36.0
Total                                            420.43                              1,439.18
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25 % for fiscal years prior to FYOO.

                                               27


Mission Data
                                Date      No. of       Specializations          Performancerating
                           (month/year)   persons       represenfed           Impe.Prog Dev. Objtvs.
IdentificationlPreparation
                             June 1995       3   InstitutionalSpecialist (1);
                                                 EnvironmentalEngineer
                                                 (1); Solid Waste Expert (1)
                          September 1995     2   InstitutionalSpecialist (1);
                                                 Economist(1)
                           January 1996      3   InstitutionalSpecialist (1);
                                                 Water Supply and
                                                 Sanitation Engineer(1);
                                                 Economist (1)
                             April 1996      1   InstitutionalSpecialist
                             July 1996       3   InstitutionalSpecialist (1)
                                                 EnvironmentalEngineer
                                                 (1); SolidWaste Expert (1)
                           Pre-appraisal,    13  InstitutionalSpecialist (1);
                          OctoberINovember       Municipal Engineer (1);
                                1996             Water Supply Engineers
                                                 (2); FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                                 Economist (1) Regional &
                                                 Urban Planning (1); Urban
                                                 Planning (1); Urban
                                                 Transport (1); Cultural
                                                 Heritage(1);
                                                 Environmental Engineer
                                                 (1); Social Development
                                                 (1); Counsel (1)
AppraisallNegotiation
                           January 1997      8   InstitutionalSpecialist (1);
                                                 Economist (1); Municipal
                                                 Engineer(1); Water
                                                 Supply Engineer (1);
                                                 FinancialAnalysts (2);
                                                 EnvironmentalEngineer
                                                 (1); Social DevlCultural
                                                 Heritage Specialist (1)
                             March 1997      4   InstitutionalSpecialist (1);
                                                 Economist (1); Municipal
                                                 Engineer (1); Counsel (1)
Supervision
                             03/27/1998      5   TTUEconomist (1);                 S           S
                                                 InstitutionalSpecialist (1);
                                                 Municipal Engineer (1);
                                                 Financial Management
                                                 (1); Social Development
                                                 (11
                             0711711998      7   TTUEconomist (1);                 S           S
                                                 Institutional Development
                                                 (1); Municipal Engineer
                                                 (1); FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                                 Social Development
                                                 Specialists (2); Water
                                                 Supply Engineer (1)
                             03/08/1999      5   TTUMunicipal Eng. (1);            S           S
                                                 Institutional Develop (1);
                                                 FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                                 Cultural Heritage Expert
                                                 (1); Social Development
                                                 (1)
                             1011Ill999     11   TTUMunicipal Engineer             S           S
                                                 (1); Institutional Spec. (1);
                                                 Financial Analyst (1)
                                                 Community Development

                              28


             Date        No. of       Specializations         Performance rating
        (month/year)    persons        represented          Impe.Prog Dev. Objtvs.
                                Specialist (1);
                                Procurement (1)
                                ProcurementSpecialist
                                (1); Social Development
                                (1); Community
                                DevelopmentSpecialist
                                (1);UrbanTransport
                                Specialist (2)
       08/04/2000 (MTR)         TTUMunicipal Engineer            S           S
                                (1); InstitutionalSpecialist
                                (1); FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                Water Supply Specialist
                                (1); Community
                                DevelopmenVCultural
                                Heritage Specialist (1);
                                ResettlementSpecialist
                                (11
          05/03/2001            TTUMunicipal Engineer                        S
                                (1); Sanitary Engineer (1);
                                Community Development
                                (1); Resettlement (1);
                                Environment Specialist
                                (1); FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                EnvironmentSpecialist
          12/14/2001            EnvironmentalSpecialist                      S
                                (1); Resettlement
                                Specialist (1); Financial
                                Specialist (1); Cultural
                                Heritage Specialist (1);
                                EducationalSpecialist (1);
                                TTLlMunicipal Engineer
                                (1)
          03/25/2002            Environmental Specialist         S           S
                                (1); Cultural Heritage
                                Specialist (1)
                                ResettlemenVCommunity-
                                Based Development
                                Specialist (1); Sanitation
                                Specialist(1); Urban
                                Planner (1)
          11/20/2003            TTL, Municipal Engineer          S           S
                                (1); Resettlement
                                Specialist (1);Cultural
                                Heritage Specialist (1);
                                Urban Planner (1);
                                Municipal Engineer (1);          S           S
                                SociallResettlement (1);
                                Community Development
                                Specialist (1);Cultural
                                Heritage Specialist (1)
ICR    09/28 - 10/1/2004        Municipal                        S           S
                                EngineerTTTL(1);Social
                                Resettlement (1)
                                Community Development
                                Specialist (1); Manager
                                Operations Services (1);
                                Procurement Specialist (1)

                                       29


MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS             PROJECT
                                        (LOAN     4440-IND)


                                         Appraisal             Actual or
                                         estimate           current estimate
Total project cost                          7.2                   7.7
Loan amount                                 5.0                   4.7
Date physicalcomponents completed        12/31/2001           06/30/2003




                                          Original               Actual
Appraisal Mission                                              07/16/1998
Board approval                                                 02/09/1999
Signing                                                        04/16/1999
Effectiveness                            03/30/1999            05/31/1999
Closingdate                              12/3112001            06/30/2003




P                                        N" Staff weeks       US$(lOOO)
IdentificationlPreparation                  11.4                 42.4
AppraisaVNegotiation                        8.8                  33.9
Supervision                                77.9                 179.6
ICR                                         9.0                  24.0
                                          107.1                 279.9

                                                   30


 Mission Data
                          Date      No. of       Specializations          Performancerating
                       (monthlyear) persons       represented        Impe.Prog       Dev. Objtvs.


 Identification1       12/01/1997      3    Anthropologist (1);
 Preparation                                Principal Environment
                                            (1); Institutional
                                            Development(1)
 AppraisallNegotiation 0711611998      4    Principal Economist(1);
                                            Institutional
                                            Development(1);
                                            DisbursementSpecialist
                                            (1); Principal
                                            Environment(1)
                       10/31/1998      4    Principal Economist (1);
                                            Legal Specialist (1);
                                            DisbursementSpecialist
                                            (1); Institutional
                                            Development(1)
 Supervision          0211511999       2    Principal Economist (1);        5        5
                                            Social Matters (1)
                      06/22/1999       2   Team Leader (1);                 5        5
                                            Operation Officer (1)
                      0913011999      2    Team Leader (1);                 U        5
                                           Operation Officer (1)
                      05111/2000      3    Community                        5        5
                                           Development, (1);
                                           Urban Management(1);
                      1211912000      3    Operations Officer, TM           5        5
                                           (1) ; Urban Management
                                           (1); Community
                                           Development (1)
                      06/2112001      6    Task Team Leader (1);             5       5
                                           EnvironmentSpec (1);
                                           Community Dev. Spec.
                                           (1); InstitutionalDev.
                                           Spec (1);Cultural
                                           Heritage, Corn (1);
                                           ProcurementSpec (11
                      12/27/2001      5    Sr. OperationsOfficer             5       5
                                           (1); Environmental
                                           Spec. (1); Community
                                           Dev. Spec. (1);
                                           Institutional Develop (1);
                                           Cultural Heritage, Corn
                                           (11
                      0611312002      6    Task Team Leader (1);             5       5
                                           Procurement (1);
                                           Cultural Heritage, Corn
                                           (1); Institutional Devt.
                                           (1); Community-Based
                                           (1); Environment(1)
                      1111512002      5    TTL, Ops Officer (1);             5       5
                                           Procurement (1);
                                           Cultural Heritage, Com
                                           (1); Community-Based
                                           Dev (1); Institutional
                                           Develop (1)
                     04/07/2003       5    TTL, Ops Officer (1);
                                           Community-Based Dev
                                           (1); Cultural Heritage
                                           (1); Institutional Devt.
                                           (1); Financial
                                           Management (1)
ICR                  1011312003       3    TTL, Ops Officer (1);              S     S

                          31


   Date      No. of     Specializations           Performance rating
(monthlyear) persons      represented        Impe.Prog        Dev. Objtvs.
                    Institutional Devt. (1);
                    Urban Devt.


                                                            33


               Annex B.Borrower Comments

                   "yusufsadana"
                   <sadana@indo.net.id>  '      TO <ndesilva@worldbank.org>
                   03/26/200612:23 AM           cc <Abarbu@worldbank.org>
                                           Subject Indonesia MIP ( Ln4440-IND) Draft Project Performance
                                                    Assessment Report




       Dear Ms.Nilakshi De Silva,
                                                                                                   4
                         RE:INDONESIA:MunicipalInnovationsProject(Ln.4440-IND)
                            SecondEastJavaUrbanDevelopmentProject (Ln.4017-IND)
                                 BaliUrbanInfrastructureProject(Ln.4155-IND)
                                  DraftProjectPerformanceAssessment Report

       Referringto your latter dated February 28, 2006, we would like to thank for the IEG's o f evaluation the
       Municipal Innovations Project (Ln. 4440-IND) which was executed by the Ministry o f Home Affairs
       (MOHA). We appreciate as the assessment is worthwhile for us in planning the coming MOHA's
       programs related to innovation. Inresponding to your assessment for the said project, we would like to
       comment as follows:
       The innovation, which has been developed by certain local government, i s aimed at to fulfiling the need
       for innovative program, But since the condition and needs of other local governments usually differ from
       local government who has develop successfuly the inovative program. So it i s dificult to generalise the
       same kindo f innovative program for all local governments. `The other factor that hinders the development
       o f such an innovative programme i s that public bureaucraties usually obedient in doing their obligation
       based on government regulations, and they feel inconvenience if they step out o f the stipulated
       regulation.
       Itwill be fair to giverewardto localgovernments who have succesfully developed suchkindof inovative
       programs.
       We would like also to inform you that inpractice local governments use to follow guidance to the central
       government and also tend to waiting for the instruction from central government Based on the mentioned
       explaination, we have seriously tried to motivate local governments to develop innovative programs and
       the result inprogerss.
       Finally, we would like to thank the World Bank for the assistance through MIP.We are looking forward
       to having close and more productive cooperation.




                                                             Jakarta, March25*, 2006
                                                                  Yours sincerely,


-                                                              Anastutik Wiryaningsih,
 .. .                                                   Directorate General for Public Administration
                                                    MinistryofHomeAffairs The Republic ofIndonesia


