Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1775a-YU
REPORT AND RECOWIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLICKI FOND VODA
(WATER FUND OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SERBIA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
MORAVA REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND WATER RESOURCES
May 6, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its conterits may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                       Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                Din. 18.00
Din. 1                              US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                          US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                      US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are as of April 3O. 1976.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLICKI FOND VODA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVlA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republicki Fond Voda (Water Fund of the Socialist Republic of Serbia or
SWF), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for
the equivalent of US$20 million to help finance a regional development project
consisting of water suppLy and sewerage systems, as well as water resources
and economic development studies. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
US$13.5 million of the loan would be on-lent by SWF to five sub-borrowers on
the same terms as those of the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economLc mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An updating Economic
Memorandum (662a-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 23,
1975. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in October 1975 and the find-
ings of this mission are incorporated in this report. Basic data on the
economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Deve:lopment Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total (GDP at constant prices having increased by an average
rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1973,
per capita GNP came to about US$1010 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy whtich has moved towards a modern industry/service
oriented urban society. The share of agriculture in GDP declined from 38 to
20 percent while the share of industry and mining increased from 16 to 37
percent.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and Provinces to
0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of labor force from agriculture to industry and
services. However, by 19'74 nearly 45 percent of the resident active labor
force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly on small private
farms; industry (including mining) accounted for 21 percent, and other sectors
for 34 percent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitution-
al amendments which were consolidated in the new constitution of 1974. It
strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production is entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every "basic organization of as-
sociated labor" (the smallest technologically identifiable unit of operation)
in every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most important
social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation down to the
Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the management
and financial responsibility for social activities (like health, education,
welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to "communities of
interest" (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific services). Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be - and progressively
is - similarly organized through communities of interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role in economic and social development; it accounts for 85 per-
cent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector
is predominantly comprised of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit to land
holdings) and small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of non-
family workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, transport and
tourism.  In the past, the private sector had been relatively neglected by
government policy. However, lately more attention is being devoted to pri-
vate farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural produc-
tion and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity - with a gradient of per capita income fall-
ing generally from North to South - has emerged as one of the most important
development issues of the country. Four distinct regions can be distinguished
by stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia and Croatia
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even within
these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia - with per capita income between 67
to 75 percent constitute the upper group among the officially designated "less
developed regions". The Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with an average in-
come of only 33 percent of the national average, is at the bottom of the spread.
These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to intra-regional
disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between communes can
extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor
rural communes within the less developed regions which largely determines the
disparity between the regions. The rate of economic growth of the less devel-
oped regions as a whole was only slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but



- 3 -
due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent
in the more developed regions) the income disparity had tended to widen sig-
nificantly during the last two decades. In order to reverse this trend and to
accelerate economic growth and social development in the less, developed re-
gions, mechanisms have been instituted for sizeable transfers of financial
resources. In 1973, credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant
element of around 50 percent) were made available through the "Federal Fund"
to the less developed regions in the amount of almost US$250 million, equiv-
alent to more than 20 percent of their total investment in the social sector.
An additional US$130 million for social services were transferred as budgetary
grants. Both categories of transfers have been growing since in line with the
growth in total GDP.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 3-4 percent of the resident labor force in 1974. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated one million out of a total labor force of around 9 million
(in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. Third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.         In 1974, Yugcslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972 respec-
tively. Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by
almost 40 percent (9 percent in real terms) and total consumption expenditures
by about 41 percent (12 percent in real terms). The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both in the rise of em-
ployment and of imports. - both in nominal and real terms - and domestic prices.
The gain in total emplcyment amounted to about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded
for the first time the natural increase of the labor force. Industrial pro-
ducer prices rose by almost 30 percent while the cost of living rose less
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy leaves, for institutional
reasons, little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through
prices and income policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36.percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.



- 4 -
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe has led to a sharp decline
in exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit and the country recorded a current account deficit in
excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million
in 1973. In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been grad-
ually tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods
and some capital and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank raised
the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing the
dinar by about 7 percent as against the currencies of Yugoslavia's major trading
partners. The large current account deficit has led to some loss of foreign
exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$345 million in 1974 (com-
pared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition, net foreign borrowing,
which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to around US$650 million
in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers 'and credits from financial
institutions continued to be the major sources of foreign capital. Long-term
funds related to financing of development are being made available mainly by
the Bank and some bilateral sources (particularly the US Export-Import Bank and
Federal Republic of Germany). Yugoslavia has also been one of the beneficiaries
of the IMF's Special Oil Facility. Yugoslavia's medium- and long-term external
debt outstanding as of December 31, 1973 was US$4,319 million (disbursed only)
and is expected to have increased to about US$5.0 billion during 1974. Debt
service payments amounted to about 15.9 percent of foreign exchange earnings
(including workers remittances) in 1973 and 15.3 in 1974.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy is estimated to have receded
to 4.5 percent, due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary
policy, stagnating exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes; economic
investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus during
1975. The inflationary pressure which built up during 1974 and extended into
1975 receded drastically in the second half of the year; the rate of increase
of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent in 1974 to an annual
rate of 12 percent for the first ten months of 1975 and the index of real net
personal income remained unchanged for the same period.      The good harvest in
1974 has had a favorable impact on the balance of payments, although meat ex-
ports were severely affected by the European Community ban on meat imports.
Exports to oil producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area
have continued to expand rapidly in 1975, but are not expected to compensate
for the sharp decline in exports to the convertible currency area. Workers'
remittances and receipts from tourism have increased marginally. The current
account deficit for 1975 was estimated to approximate the level of 1974 on the
basis of preliminary estimates, but there are now indications that it may have
dropped by 20 to 25 percent due to a curtailment of imports and an increase in
exports during the last third of 1975.



-5-
Prospects for 1976
12.       The balance of payments is expected to remain the central problem
in 1976 as well as for the years to come. The current account deficit is ex-
pected to decline somewhat as imports are restrained and there is a recovery
in the level of economic activity in Western Europe. The inflationary momen-
tum will probably be curtailed further through improved investment control,
closer alignment of real -income changes with improvements of productivity
and restrictive monetary policy. The real growth rate of GDP is expected to be
constrained to about 4.' percent in 1976 with a gradual recovery in subsequent
years.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
13.       The aggravation of major economic problems during 1974, such as
rapid inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of
development objectives. In the light of the recent shift of relative prices
in favor of raw materials, more emphasis will be given to the development of
Yugoslavia's own natural resources. In this connection, the development of
the energy sector is given the highest priority. It focuses on electric power,
where the generating capacity is likely to fall critically short of the rapidly
rising power requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the
power sector will largely be based on the large unutilized hydropower potential
and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities are ferrous
metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead, zinc, copper,
nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production equipment,
basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food processing,
interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and basic con-
struction material.
14.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and the deepening of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-
intensive investment pattern, associated with longer time-lags between invest-
ment and output. To sustain this development path, both continued high bor-
rowing abroad and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with
the possible exception of private savings, interest rates do not play a signi-
ficant role in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the income
policy - i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise income
between workers' income and accumulation - will have a crucial role.
15.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-1980), presently under preparation,
will focus on the implementation of these objectives. For growth, an average
rate of 7 percent per year is proposed as feasible, comparing with a target
growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 percent and an expected realized
growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average planned growth rate
would come to about 3 percent with annual increments exceeding the natural
increase of the labor force by growing margins. This would permit more
vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduction of the number



- 6 -
of temporary migrants abroad, and an increased absorption of the rural under-
employment into the social sector. The economy will continue to be open to
the world market although the composition of foreign trade is expected to
change with a reduced share for raw material, semifinished products and con-
sumer goods on the import side, and an increased share for agricultural pro-
ducts and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers' remittances are not
expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism receipts are expected
to compensate for the expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the less developed regions in the form of loans at concessionary terms for
economic investment and budgetary grants for social development will be con-
tinued and probably will increase as a proportion of total GDP. Since most of
the natural resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in
the less-developed regions, they will, in addition to the transfers, benefit
from the increased emphasis on the development of basic industries and power
which will to a considerable degree be financed through direct financial con-
tributions from the consuming regions.
17.       The new Five Year Plan is being prepared according to the self-
management principle as stipulated by the Constitution of 1974. "Self-
management planning" is perceived as an iterative process of sequential, con-
verging consensus-finding. In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sec-
tors and activities) and general quantitative targets and constraints (like
growth rates of social product and the volume of savings and investment) are
determined by political consensus of the assemblies of the socio-political
communities (Communes, Republics and Provinces, Federation). Subsequently,
the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enterprises and
communities of interest setting out their expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely in-
terdependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and
constraints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the
form of "social contracts" or "self-management agreements" which are legally
binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of major
deviations occuring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan, which
is currently under preparation, is, thus, expected to differ from the previous
Plan in strengthening and formalizing the commitments for implementation by
enterprises, banks and government institutions.



-7-
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the present balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favo-able assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly from
established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers credits and
the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COtIECON countries and the EC, and efforts are being intensified to open up
new sources of capital in OPEC countries. Due to the size and structure of
external borrowing during 1974 and the years to come, the debt service ratio
is expected to increase from 15.3 in 1974 to 18.2 in 1976. Although the debt
service ratio may continue to increase gradually, it is expected to peak
around 1980 at about 19 percent and decline thereafter. However, taking into
account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the past
to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective growth of
production and structural improvement of the balance of trade, Yugoslavia
remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
19.       The Bank has made 35 loans totalling about US$1,160 million to
Yugoslavia. Of this amount approximately 50 percent (US$571.4 million) has
been for 13 loans for the transportation sector - seven for highways totalling
US$220 million, four for railways totalling US$248 million, US$108.4 million
for natural gas and oil pipelines, and $44 million for a port project. Bank
lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to
the transporation loans, power (three loans totalling US$135 million), tele-
communications (one loan for US$40 million), three multipurpose projects
totalling US$103 milliort and US$6 million for a water supply and sewerage
project. Nine loans have also been made for industry and two each for tourism
and agriculture. IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises total-
ling about US$130 million. The Bank disbursed $126 million during FY75, com-
pared with $59.4 million in FY74, and about $140 million is projected for FY76.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
20.       The major objectives of current and future Bank lending to Yugoslavia
are to accelerate development in the less-developed regions of the country; to
promote agiicultural development, particularly among the small private farmers
by providing basic infrastructure and credit for the financing of farm develop-
ment, equipment and processing facilities; to promote structural reforms in
major sectors of the economy through improved coordination and the strengthen-
ing of institutions; and to provide Yugoslavia with long-term external capital
and thus help to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign exchange,
while encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other sources of
medium and long-term capital. These objectives are basically the same as those



- 8 -
which have guided Bank lending in previous years, but efforts to give special
support to the less-developed regions are being strengthened.
21.       Proposed loans for the Sarajevo water supply and sewerage project
(US$45.0 million), the Sarajevo air pollution control project (US$38.0 million),
and a second industrial credit project (us$50 million) have been negotiated
and are expected to be submitted shortly for consideration by the Executive
Directors. Over the next two years loans envisaged include a second loan for
agricultural credit, two loans for irrigation, and a loan for agricultural
industries, all for the less developed regions. Highway, railway and power
transmission projects during the same period will both assist the less-
developed regions and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy
sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities
to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical, management and
marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
22.       In addition to substantial assistance given in identifying and pre-
paring projects for Bank financing, the Bank is providing technical assistance
in several areas. A series of regional studies of the four less-developed
regions of Yugoslavia was initiated three years ago and three studies, cover-
ing Kosovo, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, have been completed. The fourth
study, of Montenegro, will be completed soon.    This series will contribute to
better assessment of development programs and will assist both the Governments
and the Bank in formulating development strategies for these regions. An energy
sector review was undertaken by the Bank in cooperation with the Federal Govern-
ment to review the energy sector survey which the Federal Government had been
undertaking as well as to review the work being done on energy problems in the
individual Republics with the objective of analyzing the main problems, issues
and policy options for meeting Yugoslavia's future energy needs. A Bank as-
sisted study on the improvement of the financial mechanism has been concluded
and its recommendations have been included in draft legislation for a new
banking law. Bank cooperation in a training program for auditors of the Social
Accounting Service, which audits all enterprises and Government activities,
including Bank financed projects, has progressed satisfactorily and further
training is underway in cooperation with an international accounting firm.
Assistance from EDI, as well as through Bank operations, has been directed
towards the improvement of project evaluation.
23.       The level of Bank lending has remained constant averaging about
US$200 million annually during the period FY74-76. Although this represents
only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. The outstanding debt to the Bank is expected
to gradually decline from its current level of less than 10 percent of
Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 4.0 percent in 1974 and is projected to increase to
about 6 percent in 1980.



- 9 -
PART III -- WATER RESOURCES SECTOR IN THE MORAVA REGION
24.       Water related problems have hindered economic development in many
regions of Yugoslavia. Climate and topographical (primarily orographical)
characteristics, which cause variable rainfall distribution both in time and
place, result in frequent flooding in spring and winter and acute water
shortages in the summer and fall, when urban and agricultural demand is
highest. Pollution of primary water sources occurs frequently due to dis-
charges of untreated sewage, particularly during low flow periods.
25.       The Morava River Basin is the second largest river basin in Yugos-
lavia; about 80 percent of the watershed is in central Serbia (see Maps 11603
and 11639). It covers 3.8,000 sq. km. (12 percent of the country's area), con-
tains an estimated population of 3.6 million (about 16 percent of Yugoslavia's
total population and over 50 percent of Serbia's population) and encompasses
one of the least developed areas of Serbia. An estimated 60 percent of the
population of the region is still rural, engaged mainly in small-scale agri-
culture. Due to the generally mountainous terrain, the habitable valleys are
densely populated with numerous, relatively small towns (Nis, the largest, has
a population of 200,000). Flooding of agricultural land has historically been
the main problem, but with an increasingly urbanized and industrialized popu-
lation, the flood hazard has increased and problems of urban water supply and
water pollution have grown enormously. Almost all towns in the basin have
industrial plants, including several which are quite large such as the copper
and aluminum processing plant near Titovo Uzice, which make significant
demands on water supply and cause pollution.
26.       The Republic of Serbia is formulating a long-term program for
developing the water resources of the area in order to accelerate economic
development. The first stages of this program aim at improving the planning
and management of water resources, including the establishment of the appro-
priate institutional framework and providing specific urgent investments
required to meet the water supply and sewerage needs of the two small, but
relatively important industrial towns of Titovo Uzice and Cacak.
Water Resources and Regional Development
27.       The Morava River, the dominant physical feature in the region, is a
large perennial river with variations in stream flows that are the cause of
the many water-related prcoblems in the basin. An estimated 2,800 km2 of val-
ley bottom lands, comprising the best agricultural land, as well as most of
the towns and economic infrastructure are exposed to flooding. Between 1920
and 1965, a total of 36 L-loods of varying intensity were recorded in the ba-
sin, 20 of which lasted Eor more than 30 days.    Mlore recent floods have had
damages approximately est:imated as follows: 1965 - $61 million; 1969 - $27
million; 1970 - $39 million. Approximately 60 percent of the damages are suf-
fered by agriculture. The average area flooded annually in the Basin has been
estimated at 1,400 km2, with damages of the order of $14 million annually.



- 10 -
28.       Soil erosion which takes place in the Basin during periods of intense
precipitation has removed high quality topsoil from agricultural land which is
then washed into the river system as sediment, reducing channel capacities and
further increasing potential flood hazards.
29.       Irrigation systems in the Morava region have been utiLized on only
about 20,000 ha, compared to an estimated 700,000 ha which have potential
for irrigation. In this region the type of irrigation system likely to be
most economic is a low cost system providing water for supplementary irri-
gation during the dry summer months; however, development of this type of
irrigation has been lacking because with sufficient precipitation existing
to permit rainfed agriculture during most of the year, farmers have had only
modest incentive to turn to the more intensive cultivation that irrigation
would permit. In addition, there have been few organized efforts in the
agriculture sector to demonstrate the possibilities of low cost supplementary
irrigation schemes or efforts to provide the necessary financial and tech-
nical assistance for such undertakings.
30.       With most of the urban centers located in the river valleys, water
supplies for households and industries depend on the river flows or ground-
water alluvial aquifers. Increasing urbanization has brought about growing
demands which local water supply systems are frequently unable to meet.
Urbanization has, along with changed agricultural practices, also contributed
to recent and severe degradation in the water quality of the rivers through-
out much of the region. Most towns do not have sewage treatment facilities and
with the limited dilution capability of the rivers during low flow periods water
pollution has become an increasingly worrisome health problem, particularly for
downstream communities whose main sources of water supply are the rivers.
31.       Although the hydroelectric power potential of the region is esti-
mated to total approximately 7,000 GWh/year, only about 5 percent is presently
developed, comprising some 20 small plants with a total instalLed capacity of
85 Mlw.
Regional Water Resources Planning and Management
32.       Initiatives by Serbian water planners to resolve basin-wide problems
began in 1958 and by 1965 a master plan had been produced for the regulation of
the Morava River flows.   However, the master plan programs have concentrated
almost entirely on the structural measures (dams and other flow regulation
works) to regulate river flows and control flooding, to the exclusion of other
aspects of river basin development, such as water supply systems, wastewater
treatment and sewerage systems, irrigation systems and hydroelectric power
plants. There has also been a lack of meaningful economic analysis, such as
the study of alternatives; hence, with a lack of good benefit/cost exposition,
the programs have given little guidance to decision makers as to the optimum
staging of facilities, much less to the benefits that might accrue commensurate
with the costs involved. Although the Republic Water Fund (SWF) was created in
1965 to provide financial resources for this plan and the Morava River Corpora-
tion (MRC) was created in 1967 to be responsible for the coordination of plan-
ning and construction, few of the programs of the master plan have been imple-
mented because they have not had sufficiently demonstrable benefits for the



- 11 -
communities which would be expected to undertake them. In the context of the
Yugoslav system of decentralization of economic and political decision-making
individual workers' organizations and enterprises (industrial, power, agricul-
tural), towns, and communes have enjoyed considerable autonomy regarding the
investment of funds in water-related activities, making it difficult for them
to collaborate for regional or multipurpose projects unless the benefits from
doing so are clearly demonstrable.
33.       In realization of some of these past difficulties in the organiza-
tion of this sector, the Serbian Assembly passed new legislation in 1975
calling for a fundamental reform in the management of the Republic's water
resources. In accordance with the 1974 constitution of Yugoslavia, Serbia's
Law on Water Management calls for the establishment of a Republic Water Com-
munity of Interest and three regional communities of interest to coordinate
water resource development for the benefit of all users and producers in each
region. Such communities of interest are usually established by self-manage-
ment agreement among wot-k organizations providing services and consumer groups
(enterprises, communes, towns); they are thus replacing both the market mecha-
nism and the state as regulating agents with direct and organized cooperation
between the affected parties. The Morava Region Water Community of Interest
(MRWCI) will be responsible for the M4orava River Basin. The SWF, and probably
the MRC, will be phased out after the new law is fully implemented and the
Republic Water Community of Interest and the MRWCI have been established.
34.       In the water supply and sewerage sector, primary responsibility in
the Morava region, as throughout Yugoslavia, has rested with the local munici-
palities or communes. Development in this sector has been impeded by a number
of problems among which have been the lack of technical expertise at the com-
munal level to plan and implement the infrastructure necessary to cope with
industrial and urban growth and the lack of capital to construct adequate
faciLities. The capital scarcity is being partially overcome in many communes
by voluntary self-imposed taxing schemes, but, understandably, such savings
campaigns usually get underway only when the physical situation has already
deteriorated badly. This frequently results in a considerable lag before suf-
ficient funds are raised to enable the improved infrastructure to be con-
structed. Republican sources of financing, particularly from the SWF, are
limited and directed primarily for river flow regulation facilities.
Water Supply and Sewerage Situation in Titovo Uzice and Cacak
35.       The town of Titovo Uzice has an estimated population of 46,000 in-
cluding nearby Sevojno, site of a large copper and aluminum processing com-
plex. Population is preSently growing at about 4.5 percent annually and rapid
industrial growth is expected to continue. Titovo Uzice is situated in the
steep valley of the Djetinja River at the headwaters of the Zapadna Morava
River (see Mlaps 11637 and 11638). The water supply situation for the inhabit-
ants and local industry is very bad. Only 55 percent of the population are
connected to the system, shortages are significant and increasing, and the
lack of safe water suppl:ies has caused epidemics, most recently in 1974 when
some 2,000 people were ai-fected and several hundred hospitalized by a diar-
rheal epidemic. The limited capacity of the public water system has forced



- 12 -
five industries to provide their own supplies. A network of sewers removes
sewage from only 65 percent of the Titovo Uzice premises connected to the
water system. All sewers discharge directly into the Djetinja River without
treatment. At Sevojno an industrial waste treatment plant has been con-
structed but is not yet operational. Other industries, including textile,
metal and leather factories, discharge untreated wastes directly into the
river, which during low flows depletes the dissolved oxygen in the water and
makes it incapable of supporting fish life.
36.       The town of Cacak has an estimated population of 44,000 which is
increasing at about 4.8 percent annually. The town is a traditional agri-
cultural center, situated in a valley of the Zapadna Morava River (see Maps
11640 and 11641). Local shallow wells have previously served as the town's
water source but the alluvial aquifer has become increasingly polluted as
urbanization and industrialization have proceeded. The piped water supply
serves only an estimated 60 percent of the population from a series of wells
recharged by river water pumped into infiltration basins. Limited source
capacity caused shortages and delayed system expansion in earlier years.
Cacak has separate sanitary and storm drainage sewers, with only 55 percent
of the water consumers connected to the sewers and the remainder using septic
tanks or pit privies. The pulp and paper factory and a bottling plant dis-
charge their untreated wastes directly into the river.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       Yugoslavia first requested Bank assistance for the project in May
1972 when it sought financing for eight independent sub-projects, comprising
seven dams and a water supply system for a small town. A series of Bank mis-
sions, beginning in May 1973 and aided by staff from the FAO cooperative pro-
gram and by consultants, have carried out several reviews of the planning
procedures and    proposed project components.   Project objectives and, to a
greater extent project definition, have evolved considerably as a consequence
of the appraisal process. It has become more of a water resources and river
development planning project, viewed as a first step to encourage the genera-
tion of future priority projects for the broader economic development of the
Mtorava River Basin. The Morava project will start with water supply and
sewerage systems for two towns (Titovo Uzice and Cacak), two pilot irrigation
projects, and three studies for river basin development. A second phase
envisages siltation and flood control works, irrigation, water supply and
pollution control systems, and possibly a rural development program.
38.       Negotiations were held in March, 1976 in Washington.     The Yugoslav
delegation was led by Mr. Branco Jovanovic, Secretary for Agriculture, Forestry
and Water Economy for the Republic of Serbia.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Description
39.       The proposed loan and project are summarized in Annex III and the
project is described in detail in the report "Appraisal of Morava Region
Development Project: Report No. 991-YU, dated May 3, 1976" which is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The project objectives
are threefold: first, to assist the planning and management of water re-
sources within the Morava region in order to promote accelerated economic
development in some of the least-developed areas in the region; second, to
provide improved water supplies to meet the demands of about 90 percent of
the population in the towns of Titovo Uzice and Cacak by 1980, to provide
adequate supplies of water to industry, and to extend the sewer networks in
the two towns; third, to demonstrate the feasibility of low cost irrigation
systems.
40.       The components of the project designed to assist in the improvement
of water resources planning and management and economic development in the
Morava Basin would include the following studies:
(a) A study of methods to accelerate economic development in three
of the least developed regions in the Morava River Basin
(Prokupulje, Leskovac, and Vranje) in order to identify and
describe specific investment opportunities for projects and
programs and to make recommendations for new policies, programs
and projects in all sectors of the economy in the regions;
(b) A study of measures to adjust to the flood hazards throughout
the basin in order to mitigate property damage, improve land
use and protect life in the Morava River Basin;
(c) A study to develop a program to improve water quality in part
of the Morava watershed, as a pilot project for the entire
basin; and
(d) Staff training for MRWCI.
41.       The proposed water supply and sewage disposal systems for the
town of Titovo Uzice would include:
(a) A concrete arch dam (70 m high) on the Djetinja River;
(b) A water transmission line from the main reservoir;
(c) A water treatment plant;
(d) Transmission and distribution pipelines;



- 14 -
(e) Pumping stations and distribution reservoirs;
(f)  A sewerage system;
(g) Engineering services, including the final design for
the future sewage treatment plar,t; and
(h) Construction of offices and workshops.
42.       The proposed water supply and sewage disposal systems for the
town of Cacak would include:
(a) A wellfield development 2 km upstream of Cacak;
(b) Collector pipeline and balancing reservoir;
(c) Transmission and distribution pipelines;
(d) Pumping station and distribution reservoirs;
(e) A sewerage system;
(f) Storm drains to alleviate local flooding;
(g) A water supply system development study; and
(h) Engineering services, including the final design for the
future sewage treatment plant.
43.       In order to demonstrate the feasibility and economics of low cost
irrigation schemes the project would include the construction, operation and
monitoring of pilot irrigation schemes covering approximately 400 ha in the
area of Milosevac and 200 ha in Aleksinac (see Map 11603).
The Borrower
44.       As noted in paragraph 33, institutional arrangements within the water
resources sector in Serbia are in a transitional state. The water law enacted
in July 1975 provides for the establishment of a new socio-economic entity, the
Morava Region Water Community of Interest (MRWCI) to manage water resources in
the proposed project area. However, pending the establishment of MRWCI, which
is not expected to become fully staffed and operational before 1977, SWF has
been selected as the borrower of the proposed loan. When MRWCI becomes fully
established, when it has access to adequate financial resources, and when a
manager and staff have been appointed, MRWCI would assume, on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank, all the obligations entered into by SWF under
the Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement Section 6.01(o)). Provision has been
made in the proposed project for training future staff or expert groups
engaged by MRWCI and it has been agreed that MRWCI would formulate a program
for staff training for review by the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 3.04).



- 15 -
Project Execution
45.       As a consequence of the fact that the proposed project deals with
several aspects of the development of the Morava River Basin, many components
of the proposed project would be under the operational responsibility of five
different entities. SWF, and later MRWCI, would be the borrower and fiscal and
coordinating agent for the proposed loan, but would be only directly respon-
sible for the construcl:ion of the Vrutci Dam and the carrying out of the flood
hazard and water qualil:y studies. The regional development study would be
administered and partly financed by the Republic Fund for the Promotion of
Development of Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR).    For the towns of Titovo Uzice
and Cacak, project components would form part of the investment programs for
the enterprises operatlng water and sewerage services (Bioktos and Cacak
Vodovod, respectively). The pilot irrigation studies would be the respon-
sibility of the two cooperative agricultural enterprises in Milosevac and
Aleksinac. For those components dealing with physical works, the Bank would
enter into four separate Project Agreements with the four entities concerned:
Bioktos, Vodovod, and t:he Milosevac and Aleksinac agricultural enterprises.
The communal assemblies of Titovo Uzice and Cacak in their capacities as
supervisory municipal authorities for Bioktos and Vodovod, respectively, are
parties to the respective Bioktos and Vodovod Project Agreements. The separate
administrative and financial arrangements for these four entities and SFUR are
discussed briefly in sections below.
46.        SWF (see paragraphs 32 and 44) was established in 1965 for the pur-
pose of collecting and administering funds on behalf of the Republic for
various aspects of river basin development. SWF has a management committee
of 19, of which 6 are nominated by the Executive Council (i.e., Government) of
Serbia and the remainder by various water enterprises. SWF has a full-time
staff of only 10-12 people who are technical, economic, accounting, legal and
administrative specialists concerned with the administration of its funds and
it does not itself undertake operational or construction work. This staff
would be increased to fulfill its responsibilities under the project. SWF's
main operations are carried out under contract with various water management
organizations, either for planning or construction work. General supervision
of SWF's work is exercised by the Republic Executive Council.
47.       Water Resources and Economic Development Studies:     SWF would be re-
sponsible for the studies concerning adjustments to flood hazards and water
quality improvement. Implementation of the regional development study would
be the responsibility of SFUR. Since SFUR is primarily a financial conduit
through which funds are made available by the Republic for projects in the
less-developed areas of Serbia, it does not possess an operational staff other
than that needed for financial administration; therefore, technical assistance
is expected to be provided to it, primarily by the Serbian Institute for Social
Planning, which preparE-d the initial proposal. SWF and SFUR would engage ex-
perienced and qualified consultants to undertake each study on terms and con-
ditions acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement Sections 3.05(a) and 3.05(d)).
The studies are expected to commence in 1977 and require the following periods
for completion: adjustments to flood hazards - 30 months; water quality im-
provement - 18 months; and regional economic development - 12 months.



- 16 -
48.       Facilities for Titovo Uzice:    The Communal Enterprise "Bioktos"-
Titovo Uzice (Bioktos) would implement the water supply and sewerage components
of the project for the town of Titovo Uzice.    Bioktos is an Organization of As-
sociated Labor. It is operated on the principle of workers' self-management,
as are all enterprises in Yugoslavia, but because it provides vital public
services the workers share control of certain activities with the Titovo Uzice
communal authorities.   The town's communal assembly approves Bioktos'working
statutes, work program, functional or organizational changes, appointment of
manager and tariff rates. Bioktos is responsible for the water and sewerage
systems of the commune, as well as for other municipal services including
street cleaning, refuse collection, septic tank emptying and storm drainage.
The administration of Bioktos is satisfactory.
49.       The construction and operation of the Vrutci dam and reservoir would
be the responsibility of SWF. All previous planning and the final designs
currently underway for the dam have been prepared by the Jaroslav Cerni Insti-
tute, Yugoslav consultants with limited experience in the implementation, as
opposed to planning, of large-scale projects; therefore, SWF has agreed to
engage suitably qualified and experienced consultants to assist in procurement
and supervision of construction of the dam (Loan Agreement Section 3.05(b)).
Because of the complexity of the thin concrete arch design of the dam, assur-
ances have been obtained that a panel of highly qualified and internationally
experienced engineers would be engaged to provide independent expert advice
during the construction period (Loan Agreement Section 3.05(c)) and that
acceptable consultants to the Bank would be engaged to periodically inspect
the dam after its completion to ensure that operation and maintenance proce-
dures are satisfactory (Loan Agreement Section 4.01(f)).
50.       The Vrutci Reservoir will be operated to serve multiple purposes:
supply of water for Titovo Uzice; release of flows downstream for industrial
abstraction; augmentation of low flows for enhancement of river quality; and
storage of flood waters. Consequently, detailed operating rules would be re-
quired and agreement has been reached that such operating rules would be pre-
pared before December 31, 1978 for review by Bioktos and the Bank (Loan Agree-
ment Section 4.03).
51.       Bioktos has been assisted by consultants in preliminary planning for
its water supply and sewerage systems and it has recently strengthened its
technical staff for project implementation, but further consultant assistance
in the final design, procurement and construction supervision of the water sup-
ply and sewerage systems and preparation cf the final designs for the sewerage
treatment plant would be required (Bioktos Project Agreement Section 2.02).
52.       Construction of the Vrutci Dam would begin in the fall of 1976 and it
is expected to be completed by end 1979. Construction of the associated water
supply facilties would begin by mid-1976 and are expected to begin operating at
the end of 1979. Temporary facilities constructed and financed by Bioktos are
expected to augment the water supply in the interim period.



- 17 -
53.       Facilities for Cacak:   The Water Supply and Sewerage Enterprise
Vodovod-Cacak (Vodovod) would implement the water supply and sewerage compo-
nents of the project for the town of Cacak.    As in the case of Bioktos, Vodovod
is an Organization of Associated Labor, shiaring control of certain of its acti-
vities with the town's, communal assembly. Vodovod is responsible for the water
and sewerage system of Cacak and the town's stormwater system. Although over-
all administration of Vodovod is satisfactory, medium and long-term planning
in both technical and financial matters needs to be improved. Vodovod is con-
sidering reorganization and would consult the Bank prior to undertaking any
proposed reorganization (Vodovod Project Agreement Section 3.03).
54.       Vodovod has been assisted by consultants in the preliminary design
for most project facilities in Cacak, but separate consultants had been en-
gaged by the local water economy enterprise associated with MRC for final
designs of certain water supply facilities; these were related to the Semedraz
Dam, the construction of which has been postponed and for which MRC would have
been responsible. It has been agreed that Vodovod would have sole respons-
ibility for all facilities in Cacak to be financed by the proposed Bank loan
(Vodovod Project Agreement Section 5.05). Vodovod would engage consultants
to assist in final designs, procurement, and construction supervision of the
project facilities and for the final design of the sewerage treatment plant
(Vodovod Project Agreement Section 2.02(b)).
55.       The groundwater source to be developed in an unpoiluted water aquifer
upstream from Cacak, together with an existing source, should meet Cacak's re-
quirements until about 1984. To meet demand thereafter, several possible
sources of additional water have been identified, including the Semedraz Dam.
Consequently, Vodovod would engage qualified consultants to undertake a system
planning study, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, of future
demands and alternative sources to determine an optimum development program.
This study would be canpleted within 18 months from the date of the Loan Agree-
ment (Vodovod Project Agreement Section 2.02(c)), and Vodovod and SWF would
not undertake any investments for additional water source facilities for Cacak
prior to the completion of this study (Loan Agreement Section 4.05 and Vodovod
Project Agreement Section 3.04).
56.       The groundwater facilities to augment Cacak's water supplies are ex-
pected to begin operating by end 1976. Water supply and sewerage networks
would be extended in phases throughout the project period 1976-1979.
57.       Pilot Irrigal:ion Projects:  Construction, operation and maintenance
of both pilot projects would be undertaken by agricultural enterprises in
Milosevac and Aleksinac. Preliminary feasibility studies have been undertaken
by Yugoslav consultantS and reviewed by the Bank. In Milosevac, where land
consolidation has already been carried out at the initiative of the farmers,
the construction and operation of the pilot irrigation project would be under
taken by the Milosevac Farmers' Cooperative. In Aleksinac, the commune has
given assurances that a program would be authorized for land consolidation or



- 18 -
adjustment of farm boundaries within the project area and the Aleksinac Agro-
Industrial Kombinat would implement the irrigation project (Aleksinac Proj-
ect Agreement Section 3.03). Consultants would be engaged to assist in the
final design, procurement and construction of the pilot projects. Appropriate
arrangements also would be made with the Republic of Serbia's Secretariat for
Agriculture to monitor, evaluate and disseminate the results of these projects
(Loan Agreement Recital M and Section 7.01(g)).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
58.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$51.4 million.     The es-
timate includes duties and taxes (about 5 percent of project costs) and al-
lowances for physical contingencies of 25 percent for the Vrutci Dam, 10 per-
cent for water pipelines, and 15 percent for all other items. Price contingen-
cies of about 12 percent per annum in the years 1977-79 have been provided.
Project expenditures for the water supply, sewerage and storm water systems in
Titovo Uzice and Cacak account for 91 percent of total project costs, includ-
ing the Vrutci Dam which accounts for 27 percent of the total. The foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$16.2 million and include estimates of the
foreign exchange component of internationally and locally bid contracts ex-
pected to be won by Yugoslavs (see paragraph 66). Interest during construc-
tion on the proposed loan would add an additional US$4.5 million in foreign
exchange costs. Details of the cost estimates are shown in Annex III.
59.       The proposed loan of US$20 million would cover about 36 percent of
the estimated project financial requirements and 97 percent of the foreign
exchange requirements, including interest during construction on the Bank
loan. SWF would onlend the respective portions of the loan on the same terms
as those of the Bank loan. The following table summarizes the cost estimates
and financing plan for the project:
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
SWF   Bioktos   Vodovod  SFUR  Milosevac Aleksinac   Total
(US$ millions)
Project Requirements:
Project Cost            16.61    18.68    14.28   0.51     0.81      0.55      51.54
Interest During
Construction           1.31    1.58      1.38   0.06    0.08       0.06      4.47
Total Requirements      17.92    20.26    15.66   0.57     0.89      0.61      55.91
Sources of Funds:
IBRD Loan                6.46    7.26      5.55   0.20    0.32       0.21     20.00
Other Funds
Republic               8.60                     0.37    0.57       0.40      9.94
Local                  2.86   13.00     10.11   _        __89               25.97
Total Sources           17.92    20.26    15.66   0.57     0.89      0.61      55.91



- 19 -
In addition to the Bank loan, the remainder of the financial requirements for
the project would come from the Republic of Serbia (18 percent), and other
local funds (46 percent). The bulk of such other local funds would be capital
contributions from the communities of Titovo-Uzice and Cacak. The internal
cash generations of the Bioktos and Vodovod enterprises provide the balance
(Bioktos and Vodovod Project Agreements, Sections 4.04 and 4.03, respectively).
60.       It has been agreed that the Republic of Serbia would provide or
secure additional funds to meet any project costs related to those parts of
the project to be carried out by SWF, SFUR, Aleksinac and Milosevac in excess
of present estimates which the borrower would be unable to secure (Loan Agree-
ment Recitals K and L, and Section 7.01(g)). For the Bioktos and Vodovod
components of the project, arrangements have been made with a commercial bank
to provide guarantees for any additional funds necessary to meet construction
cost overruns (Loan Agreement Recitals G and I, and Section 7.01(h)). In ad-
dition, the respective communal assemblies have agreed to provide or secure
additional funds necessary to meet Bioktos' and Vodovod's construction costs
in excess of present estimates (Bioktos and Vodovod Project Agreements, Sec-
tions 5.01).
Financial Performance
61.       SWF.   The majority of SWF's present funds come from the assignment
by the Republic of a certain percentage of general taxes and from direct
contributions voted periodically by the Republican Assembly. Certain direct
sources of revenue related to water usage are also available to it. In
order to administer the Bank loan for the entire project, including the re-
lending of funds to the other participating enterprises, SWF would establish
and maintain, in consultation with the Bank, adequate accounting arrangements.
62.       Bioktos and Vodovod.   To generate the funds needed for the project
and future system operation (including an appropriate share of the Vrutci
Reservoir operating and amortization costs) Bioktos would increase its
tariffs by 50 percent in 1976 and in 1977, followed by annual increases of
40 percent in 1978, 1979, and 1980. Due to the difference in project costs,
arising from the inclusion of the Vrutci Dam in Bioktos' system, Vodovod
would require lower tariff rate increases to generate the funds needed for
its project and future system operation. It would increase its tariffs by
20 percent annually frDm 1976 to 1979. In each subsequent year, after 1979
for Vodovod and after 1981 for Bioktos, tariffs would be set so as to ensure
a contribution of not less than 30 percent from internal funds towards a
three-year average of capital investment requirements (Vodovod and Bioktos
Project Agreements, Sections 4.03 and 4.04, respectively). The respective
communal assemblies in each town have agreed to approve Vodovod's and Bioktos'
requests for tariff increases to meet the above requirements (Vodovod and
Bioktos Project Agreements, Sections 5.02(b)).
63.       Bioktos' and Vodovod's rates of return on average net fixed assets
for water and sewerage services combined were each 9.3 percent in 1973 and
9.0 percent and 13.8 percent, respectively, in 1974, and are estimated to



- 20 -
average about 5.9 percent and 5.0 percent, respectively (on annually re-
valued average net fixed assets), during the 1976-80 period and each would
be about 4 percent in 1984.   In both cases, these rates are reasonable in
view of the fact that the projected internal cash generation of funds would
be adequate and that a large portion of the fixed assets would have been
financed by contributions from consuners, local enterprises and the respec-
tive towns (implying increased local taxation) reflecting substantial local
participation and local community sacrifice.
64.       Bioktos' and Vodovod's debt equity ratios in 1974 were 7:93 and
17:83, respectively, reflect[ng their low levels of debt.    With the increase
in borrowing for the project, Bioktos' debt equity ratio would rise to 39:61
in 1981 and Vodovod's to 39:61 in 1983. Both Bioktos and Vodovod have agreed
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, they would not incur addi-
tional debt unless their respective net cash generation before depreciation
and interest exceeds 1.5 times their respective debt service in any future
year, including debt service on the amount to be borrowed (Bioktos and
Vodovod Project Agreements, Sections 4.05 and 4.04, respectively).
65.       Pilot Irrigation Projects.   In addition to the portions of the
proposed Bank loan to be allocated to Milosevac and Aleksinac, the Republic
of Serbia would make available counterpart funds to permit construction of
works, provide working capital to cover operation and maintenance pending
receipt of crop sales revenues and provide agricultural credit sufficient
to cover the capital outlay of farmers to convert to higher yielding crops
(Loan Agreement Recital L and Section 7.01(g)).
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       Equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.    For the purpose of bid
comparison, qualified domestic manufacturers of these goods would be given a
margin of preference of 15 percent or customs duties, whichever is lower.
Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000 would be awarded
after ICB. The other equipment supply and civil works contracts would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with local procedures which are acceptable. Local contractors are expected to
win contracts for most of the construction work in the towns of Titovo Uzice
and Cacak, but Bioktos and Vodovod will carry out minor works by force account
(such as renovations and modifications to existing facilities or installing
new pipes) using their existing staff and equipment. The total value of such
works carried out by force account would be limited tc US$4.0 rillion
(8 percent of the project cost). Most equipment supply and civil works con-
tracts are expected to be won by Yugoslav firms. Retroactive financing from
January 1976 is proposed for expenditures of about US$1.0 million which are
expected to be incurred prior to loan signature (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
Paragraph 4).



- 21 -
67.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as follows
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1):
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 35 percent of
contracts won locally (including disbursements of up to
US$1.4 million on force account work for Titovo Uzice and
Cacak) for all civil works and Equipment contracts.
(b) 100 percent of the foreign cost of consultants, engineering
services and training for MRWCI staff and 35 percent of the
cost of local consultant costs.
(c) 100 percent of interest and other charges on the Bank loan.
Disbursements would begin in the last quarter of 1976 and be completed for
the total project by December 1980.
Audit
68.       All participants in the project, even though they have somewhat dif-
ferent accounting procedures, must follow the regulations and controls estab-
lished by the Social Accounting Service (SAS), including the preparation of
annual financial statements. The accounting procedures established by SAS
for capital works projects are satisfactory. With Bank encouragement, the
SAS started a program in January, 1974 under which its staff is being trained
by foreign consultants in auditing methods consistent with modern auditing
standards. The program is currently in its second phase in which additional
SAS staff is being trained, under the consultants' guidance, by those who
participated in the first phase. SWF, Aleksinac, Milosevac, Bioktos and
Cacak gave the Bank assurances that the group of specially trained auditors
would be asked to conduct their audits beginning with the accounts for the
financial year 1976, or such other later year as shall be agreed between the
enterprises and the Bank. Until such time, Bioktos and Vodovod, along with
all other beneficiaries in the project would prepare separate annual finan-
cial statements for project activities in a manner acceptable to the Bank and
such statements would be audited by SAS.
Justification
69.       The major objective of the project is to improve the planning and
management of water rEsources within the Morava region in order to overcome
water-related problems and accelerate the economic development of the least
developed areas in thE region. To this end, the water resources and economic
development studies are designed to generate programs whose benefits are ex-
pected to be substantial, though unquantifiable; these would include reduction
of flood damage, siltation control, improved irrigation practices, improved
water supplies and river pollution control. In the next five years, SWF and
its successors expect to spend US$104 million on flow regulation structures
in the Morava region and the decisions concerning these investments could be



- 22 -
greatly improved as a result of the recommendations of the studies concerning
adjustments to flood hazards and water quality improvement, which together
would cost less than 3 percent of the proposed five-year investment plan.
SFUR invested approximately US$59 million in the period 1971-74 for projects
to accelerate development in the lesser developed areas of Serbia. Similar
financial assistance is expected to continue and as a result of the proposed
regional economic study, such assistance would be directed more effectively
towards economically sound projects.
70.       A national objective in Yugoslavia, as well as in Serbia, is to
assist small farmers to increase agricultural output and improve their
standard of living. One method of accomplishing this in the Morava region
would be to increase agricultural production through the use of low cost,
supplemental irrigation schemes, the potential for which is considerable
in the valley lands of the area. Preliminary information indicates that
such schemes as the pilot irrigation projects in Milosevac and Aleksinac
would be economically viable, providing rates of return of approximately
20 percent. The main benefit expected from these projects is the demon-
stration to farmers and agricultural planners throughout Serbia that low
cost supplementary irrigation schemes are technically feasible and econ-
omically viable. This could lead to substantial benefits to small-scale
farmers throughout the Morava region and Serbia in the future.
71.       With the increasing concentration of people in urban areas in
Serbia, generally along the river valleys and flood plains, a major constraint
to future economic development in the Morava basin will continue to be the
shortage of continuous supplies of water for people and industry.     In both
Titovo Uzice and Cacak, the industrial and domestic requirements for treated
water exceed the available supplies. In Titovo Uzice additional supplies of
untreated water for industrial processes must also be assured.     In both towns
existing facilities are inadequate, with less than 60 percent of the residents
supplied by the water systems. With the expansion and improvement of the
water supply and sewage disposal systems, adequate potable water would be
available to 90 percent of the population and the threat of water-borne
diseases would be significantly reduced. There would be a variety of bene-
fits, including medical cost savings, increased productivity of workers, and
savings on future septic tank expenditures. Both towns would become better
places in which to live and work. Conventional economic analysis of the re-
commended investments for Titovo Uzice and Cacak does not produce meaningful
information because of the difficulty in quantifying these project benefits.
However, for each town, the project facilities are the least cost solution to
meeting the project objectives.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republicki Fond
Voda; the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Skupstina Opstine
Cacak and Komnalna Organizacija Udruzenog Rada za Vodovod i Kanalizaciju



- 23 -
"Vodovod"-Cacak; the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Skupstina
Opstine Titovo Uzice acnd Komunalno Preduzece "Bioktos"-Titovo Uzice; the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and Zemljoradnicka Zadruga "Milosevac"; the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Poljoprivredno-Industrijskl:
Kombinat Alekslnac; the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank; the report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(ili) of the Articles of Agreement; and, the text
of a draft resolution approving the above loan, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
73.       Provisions of the agreements of special interest were noted In
paragraphs 44 through 67   of this report.   Special conditions of effective-
ness (Loan Agreement Section 7.01) are:
1.   The execution and delivery of each of the Project Agree-
ments on behalf of the respective signatories have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
2.   The execution and delivery of each of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements on behalf of the Borrower and Vodovod and
Bioktos, respectively, and arrangements between the Bor-
rower and SFUR, Milosevac and Aleksinac, respectively, to
make such portions of the loan allocated to such entities
available to them, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action, all
such agreements and arrangements to be satisfactory to the
Bank;
3.   All local financing arrangements referred to in paragraphs
59 and 60 of this report have been completed and are in
full force and effect; and
4.   The Republic of Serbia has made arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for the monitoring of the execution of the
pilot irrigation schemes.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1976






TALE *A                                         Pa4 1    4
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SWEET
YUGOSLAVIA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1910)
TOTAL       25S.8                                      MaST RECENT
A5. L        JI. 27s.a1                           19170   ESTRMATE          R6MANIA, REP   SPAIN       G0131sy, ?ED. VUP. 
GNP PfR CAPITA tushl                     360.0       140.0      1010.0               n.a. /j   1Z60.0      4210.0
POPULATtnN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION IMID-YR, MILLIONi)           18.4        20.4        21.0               20.3        33.6       60.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQU4ARE fl.                       72.0        8O.o        82.0               85.0       66.0       240.0
PER SQAUARE KM. AMaC.  LANC             ..          .        1145.0
VITAL STATISTICS                                                                   2.           96         1.
CRunE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         24.0        17.8        18.0               21.         19.t        13.4
CRUDf DEATH RATE PEP THOUSAND         10.0         8.9         8.7                9.5         8.5        12.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)         68.0        55.5        43.3               49.4       21.9        23.6
LIFE FXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRSI        62.0        67.0a       68.0               68.6        71.0        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.3         1.3         1.3                0.9         1.4         1.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 48)                                                          1.0          .1         1.0
TOTAL                                  1.2         1.1         1.01.1110
URBAN                                  6.0         4.6          ..                3.4         1.9        14.1
URBAN POPULAFION,I1  OF TOTALI           27.2       38.7        39.0               41.0        59. 1       82.14
AGE STRUCTURE IP(RCFNTI
0 (l1 14 YEARS,                      31.0        26.9        j6 9               25.9        27.a       23.2
IS to 64 YEARS                        63.0        65.1        &5.1               65.5       62.5        63.D
65 YEARS AND OViER                     6.0         8.0         8.0                8.6         9.7        13.2
AGE UEPFNOENCR R4TIO                     0.6         0.5         0.5                0.5         0.6         0.6
FCONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0         ..         0.9                0.l/g       I.E         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS ICUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..          .           ..
USERS It OF MARRItO WOMEN)               ..         ..          ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE ITHOUSANOI          8300.0          ..     8900.0              9900.0    11900.0     26500.0
LABOR FURCE IN AGRICULTURE 171          57.0          ..        45.0               49.0        24.8        8.9
UNEMPLOYEO IS OF LABOR FORCF)             7.0 /a      ..         3.3 La              . .        2.0 La      0.7
INCGHE DtSTRIBUTION
Y OF PRIVATE INCCME RFC U BY-
HIGHFST  sxr OF H8JRHII/S 16.4 lb                 15.1          ...6.3 lb
HIGHEST 201 OF HErLDS                 41 5 7w-    41.4          **
LnWSFT ZO OF   HJDDsH0lS              6.9 7S      6 .6         *-               24.3 /c
LOWEST 401 OF   HoUsEHO L90                         .4          *-                             *-          *-
OISTRISUTION OF LA4D CWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 10OY noERs                .. O RS. /b
E COWNED SY SNALLEST lot OWNERS            .        84.9          ..7.
HEALTH ANI) NUTRITION
POPULATIcN PER PHYSICIAN              1400.0 /a   1010.0       900.0              680. o      750.0 /b   580.0
POPULATION PER NURS INC PERSON         500.0 7      410.0      380.0              200.0     1430.0       350.0
POPULATIGN PER HOSPITAL dEn            L90.0 /a      160.0     170. 0O            120.0       220.0       90.0
PEk CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALGRIES 13 OF AEUUIREMENTSI         115.0       124.0      1ZS.0               118.0      107.0       12L.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)               91.0        92.0       94.0                92.0        81.0       88.0
-OF wHICH ANIMAL ANU PULSE          27.0        29.0          ..               28.0        40.0        56.0
UEATH RATE I/THOU) AGeS 1-4              4.7 /a      2.5         2.5                3.0         0.9         0.9
ECUCAT ION
AnJuSTFD ENROLLHENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        96.0        94.0        96.0              112.0       131.0       117.0 /a
SECCNOARY SCHOOL                      34.0        45.0        48.0               146.0       57.0        45.o 7a
YFARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
IFIQST AND SECUJND LEVEL)             12.0        12.0       12.0                14.0        13.0       15.0
VOCATIONAL ENPOLLMENI
I7 OF SECONDARY)                      12.0        72.0       74.o                58.0 /d    20.0        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (3)                 r7.0        65.0 U.                        99.0        94.0        99.0
HOUS ING
PFRSCNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                1.7         ..         1.3                1.3 /a       ..         0.7/b
OCCUPIEO DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATEP (3)                         ..          ..        66.0 b             89.0 /e!.     .          0.3/
ACCFSS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  55.0          *-       88.0               49.0 /e        *-      100.0
RIIRAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELFCTRICITY 48)                    36.0          ..        80.0               27.U le
CONSUMPTION
IRAUDO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POCP"         84.0      163.0       176.0              152.0       214.0       31d.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        35.0        54.0                 ..        70.0       223.0
ELECTRICITY IKwH/YR PER CAP)           529.0      1288.0      1570.0             1615.0      1627.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT 1KG/VR PER CAP)                 2.3        4.3         3.5                2.6         5.8        17.5
SFE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON RIEVFRSE



Pap 2 of 4 pagea
Unles n othezeiao noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, end for Most Recent Estimate between
1971 end 1973.
-   Sele-tion of Jedesmi Repblic of Ge-mecy As en objective country is beaed on the close     eoomic ties caintainod by the two countries, as well as on
the fact that the greater pert of YugolalAial 'sAround one millio workers temporarily abroad have found eaployment in the Federel Republic of
Germany.
rUOOIAVIA              EL      ag1962i     Lk 1963;    Zg, Including midwivo   end midwifery, end nursing cuxelaries.
IE  Z   1966-67i   4k Agriculture land held by Social Sector Kombinats;      /. Agriculture lend held by prisate smell-
holders.
MST    CZHT KSTIMATIo La    RAtio of registered job seekers to active population;    /b   Government hospitals only;    /c  Water
piped inside.
82MvaRA               12O     /   The calculation of theme fipree in under discussion; based on information supplied by the Rocsnien Oc-eonet, end
using a currency convrsion rate of 20 isi to the US$, the per capita GNP would enount to $890 for 1973, end the
preliminary estimate for 197h would be $910. These figures are, however, not strictly co-parable with those for
other reference countries, Ls presented herel     &  Percent of salaried workrsm earning sor    then 2, 500 tel;
/, Percent of salaried wor-kers searning loes then 1,100 Iai;    Ld pull-tine education onlyl     /s  1966;   If   Piped
water inaide only; ag Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and movr to total labor force.
SPuN                  1970    /a   Registered unemployed;   /b  Registered, not all practicing in the couatry'.
CZRMAn. 115. REP.     1970     La  Includes the relevent date relating to Berlin for which sepamate data haer cot been supplied;     /b  Total, urban end
rurl;I   /   inside only.
8L12, May 3, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL IRDICATORS
Land Ace. (thou he I                                                                   Ocatlo"     r mursiti ceon    - population divided by nicber of pra-ti-
Total - Total surface are   comprising land eras and inland wtaters                  cPOg.    mleltsd fel grdute nurses, 'trained" or "certified" curses,
Anric. - moot recas.t estitate of agricultural area used tnporerily or pot-             end auxiliary porsonnel with training or esporieoce.
emaently for crope, pastures, mkarkt & kitchen, gardena or to lie fallow             Population Fee h-piastl bed - Population dividcd by number of hospital
beds available in public aod private gener-l and opeialiced hoopita1
GRP gar capita (UiS$  - IMP pertapita estimates at market Prices, calculated            and rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing hones and est.blisheects
by sam  conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-74 basis).                        for custodial cod preventive care.
Per capita supply of calcries 1 of requirenenta) - Conputed fron
PpoplatIon acd vita  sttistics                                                          ene rgy squiv-lot of not fond supplies  -vilable in country par
'onulatie (md:-yr mlliona     - As of July first;  if cot -viloble, -orogc              capita per day; -valblab    ouppliea conpriss doneetic production.
of tws sod-year estimates,                                                            imports I..a exporto, and changes in stock, net supplies e-clude
animal feed, needs, qusotitien used in fond processing and lossin
Ppoplation density - per square be - Mid-year population per square kilo-               distribution; requirinenots were eotimated by FAO based on physio-
meter (ISO hectares) of total area                                                    logical needs for normal activity end health considering environ-
Ppoplation deons ty - per square ko of acrlc. land - Computed as shows for              meotal tmperature, body weights, aga and sea distributions of
agricultural land only.                                                               population, and all1wing 107. for wears at household lsvel.
Per capita supply of pr.tein icran pur day) - Protein content of pot
Vital satistiics                                                                        capita,net aupply of fond por day; net supply of fond is defined as
Crude birch rate cur thousand - Annusl live birth. per thsuund of mid-year              above ; requiromento for all coutries establiahed by USDA Econonic
population; usually five-year -vrages coding is 1960, 1970 and 1975 fsr               tesearch Services provida for a ainio      ol11usoe of 60 gram  of
de-sloping countries,                                                                 total pr.tais per day, and 20 gram   of animal ad pubs protein, of
Crude death rate par thouaand -AOnnuaI deaths per thowasd of mid-year                   which 10 grams chould be aninal protein; the.se tandards are lowr
population; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for              than those of 75 grams of total protein and 23 gram    of animal
developing countries,                                                                 protein as an average for the world, propesed by P60 In the Third
Infant mortnldity rate r(thou) - Annusl deaths of infants u-der ons year of age         World rood Survey.
per thousan  live birhs                                                             per capita pr.t.in uol    fro  anma     nsd pulse - Protein supply of food
Liesnoutency at birth (Yre) - A-erce number of years of life reaaIning              deie     ro    nmlsadplesi           rmsprdy
at birth; usually five-yer -ercga.e ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for               Death rate i/thou) ace  1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
develsping countries.                                                                 1-4 years, to children in this sge group, suggested 1 an indicator
Crone reproduction rate - Average number of live daughtere a womn will hear             of malntrition.
in her norma  reproductive period if she enperiences present ges-epecii
fertility rate. , -sualy five-yea   --erges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971           Education
for develsping netries.                                                            Adbsted enrollent ratio - primary school - Enroll1ent- of all ages as
opLatio  grouth rats        t!t- na  - Compmsd annual growth rates of mid-yar         percentage of primary school-age population, includes children aged
Popultinfine 1906          60-70, end 1960 to mont recent year.                       6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primcry education;
Population 'arowth rats ('15  urban - Conputed like growth rate of total                fsr countries with usiveroe1 education, enrolment may exceed 1001
population; different definition   of urban areas may affect comparability            sinc  som  pupil  ar   ho    or above the official school age.
cf data among coutries.                                                             Aldjusted'enrollment aratio- aecondar shonl - Computed aa above;
Urban population (. of total) - Ratio of orban to total population, diffe-              secondary education requires at lean.t four years of approved primary
reot definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data among                instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training
coutries.                                                                             instruction. for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age, correspondence
Age  trut,  rrcnt)- Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),             courses are generally eacloded.
and retired (5 years and over) a. percentages of mid-year population.               Years ofiZcoolins nro,,ided (first and second levelsl - Tsta1 years of
Axe dependency ratio - istic of population under 15 and 65 and over to these            schooln  ; at seodary lovel, vocational instruction1mey be par-
of ages 15 through 6.4,                                                               tially or coupletety e.ciuded.
Econonic dependency -ans - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to            Vocational enrollment ('1 of secondary) - Vocational institutions~
the labo  force Inage groupZ.of 1-4yars                                               include technical, industrial or sther program     which, operate inde-
famiy Plemis -  ccetors(cuulatve,thou  C-CmlatIve number of                   pendently or as deparctuet ofaeonay institution..
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national famitly plan-         Adult literacy rate ('1) - Literate adults (able ts read and write) as
ning program selce inception.                                                         p.erctage of total adu1Lt PoPulation aged 15 year.ansd over.
Famil slnig-uersn ftofmarred wince            -Prcentages of married
nwome  of chtidHarn    ag   1-4yas        h    secbirth-cotrol devcst                osn
.ll cuarried unoun is same age group.                                               Pe,rsons our room(average) - Average number of persons    er ron in
ocuid covntoa        deling     in urban areas. dwellings eclude
tonloyonot                                                                              non-permanet strutures and unoccupied parts.
Total labofrc      thouaasd)    Econonical1y active persons, including armd           Occuieddelnswtotppdwtr(.                        cutdcnetoa
forcs ad nemplyedbutecclnding housewive, students, etc. ; defini-              dwligsi        rbnadua           aeas without Inside or outside piped
Ltinse in various countries are not conprable.                                         water facilities a. percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Lbor force in agriculture ill - Agricultural labor force (is farming,                Access to electriit (7    fal    wllns       - Conventional dwellings
forstry   hutn    ad fishing) .o percentage of total labor force,                     with electricityinlvg qu         rteraspcetotoldwlig
Unemployed C7. of labor forc.) - Unemployed are usually defined as persns               in urban and rural areas.
who are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a give    day,              coral dw   1"ellg  onced to electricity (%) - Computed as above for
remined cut sf a job, and seeking wsrk for a specified moiniu     periodruadwlig                      ony
not exceeding one week; ney not he comprable between countries due to
dIfferent definitions of unouplsysd and source of data, e.g., employment            Consumption
office ettiatico,    ouPle suvy,compulsry uneplcyment insurance.                   Rladio rece:ivers four thou P-P) - All types of receivers for radio
bresdcsts    to gersl public Per thousand of population; ...cIndeo
Scne disttribution - P.erctage of private incon    (both in cah and kind)              unlicensed rece ive re in counries and in years when registration of
received by richest57., richest 207., pooreet 20%, and poorest 40% of                 radio sets wsa is sffect; da ta for rdecant years may not be Coomper-
households,                                                                           able sice most countrins abolished licensing.
P .. eager cars (per thou pop) - Psa..enger cars comprise mtotr cars,
Distribution of land ownerhip - Percentges of lacd owned by welthiest                   seating le.. than eight persona; excludes ambulances, hearses and
10%X and poru    0.o    and owners,                                                   military vehicles.
Electricity (kwhn/yr. ourcant - Annual consumption of industrie1, con-
Health and Nutrition                                                                    ourcial  public edpIvae electricity in kilowatt hour        per
Psnultich our physician - Population divided by comber of practicing                   capita; geo-rally based on production data, wihout allowance for
pyiians qualified from a medical school at university level,                       lessen in grids but cll1wing for imports and exports of electricity.
Newnprlnt (kg/yr our caS     Per capita annual cosuption in kilogrgam
estimated from d rscaic production Plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEXI
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amo-ats is Millio US Dollars)
3/                       Actual            I/     Projected
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                      1972     1973    197C     19752/   1976               1965-72      1972-75      1973-76      1972    1974     1976
Constant 1974 Prices god Eachange Rate of 81=17.0 Din.          AveraRe Annual Crouch Bates          As Percent of CDY
Gross Doentic Predunt                 21,638   22,720  24,765   25,887   27,033                5.6         6.2           6.0       97.8    100.0    100.6
GCins from Terms nf Trade (+)           +468    +681      -       -175     -150                                                     2.2      -        0.6
Gross Domestic Income                 22,106   23,401   24,765  25,712   26,884                5.5         5.2           4.7       100.0   100.0    100.0
Imports (incl. NTS)                    6,588    7,60C   8,312    8,036    8,216               12.6         6.9           2.6       29.7     33.6     30.6
Exports (iecl. N'S)                   5.437     5.780   5.694    5.678    6.187                8.8         1.5           2.3       24.5     23.0     23.0
Resource Cap                           1,151    1,812   2,618    2,358    2,029
Cesonsption Enpanditures              16,139   17,710  19,953   20,151   20,639                6.7         7.7           5.2       73.0     80.6     76.8
Investment Enpenditures (inl. stocks)  6,650   6,811   7,429    8,095    8,424                6.0         6.8           7.3       30,0     30.0     31.3
Notional Savings                       6,904   6,80t.   6,241    7,169    7,756                6.6         1.3          4.5        31.2     25.2     28.8
Domestic Savinis                       5,499   5,00e    4,812    5,736    6,394                3.1         1.4          8.5        24.9     19.4     23.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Iota At Current Prices                                                        As a Pereentooc of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                        688.6   1003.1:  1306.0  1909.5   2132.3
Pctrole-m                             82.5    219.1:  681.2    730.9    818.4                                                    21.3     17.4     23.6
Intermediate Coeds                  1953.9   2589.3  4560,8   4659.8   5268.8                                                    63.1     69.7     67.5
Consumption Poods                    502.3    698.3'   970.0   792.3    798.3                                                     15.6    12.9      8.9
Total M-roh. Imports (c.i.f.)       3227.3   4510.:'  7518.0  8092.5   9017.8                                                   100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Capitol Goods                        316.1    389.1    514.0   655.0    776.9                                                    14.1     13.5     16.0
Toxtile end Leather Products         382.4    409.:!  477.0    548.0    650.0                                                    16.2     12.5     13.4
One-Fr..us Mctiiurgy                 272.0    324.',  556.0    458.0    585.1                                                    12.2     14.6     12.1
Agricultural produee (innl. food)    476.0    621.1,   604.0   503.0    591.2                                                     21.3    15.9     12.2
Other                                810.7   1107."   1654.0  1824.0   2248.3                                                    36.2     43.5     46.3
Total Merch. Eports (f.o.b.)        2237.2   2852.c;  3805.0  3980.0   4851.5                                                   100.0    100.0    100.0
MERCILkDISE TRADE INDICES                              1974=100
Enport Prcco Idc                    63.0     76.')   100.0   107.0    108.0
Inport Price Ioden                    58.0     68.')  100.0    111.0    121.0
Terms of Trade Index                 109.0    112.0    100.0    96.0     98.0
Elpert VOltm  loden                   93.3     98.4    100.0   100.0    110.0
VALUC ADDED BY SECTOR                  Annual Data is Censtant 1974 Prices and
Enchasege Rate of $1-17.0 Die.                                                         As Peccentace of Total
Agricelture                          3213     3496     3765    3727     3876                 2.7         5.1           3.5       15.6     16.0     15.1
Mas.factucrig & Mining               6374     6712     7471    7930     8379                 6.6         7.6           7.7       31.0     31.8     32.6
Other                               10956    11362   12276    12927    13418                 5.4         5.7           5.7       53.3     52.2     52.3
Total                               20543    21570    23512   24584    25873                 5.3         6.2           6.0      100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                      Current Prie.s                                                                As Perceet of GDI/Mnket Prices
Current Receipts                    2772.0   3489.2     ..      ..       ..                  ..          ..           ..         17.5              .
Current Eenditures                  2520.8   3154.8     ..      ..       ..                  ..          ..            ..         1.6
Budgetry S-viegs                     251.2    334.2         ..      ..             ..              ..           ..           ..       1.6
Public Sector Invest-ent             224.9    281.3         ..      ..             ..              ..           ..           ..       1.4
:K/                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (CONSTANT 1974 PRICES AND EXINANCE
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPLT PER WORKER 1974     I    l             TOTAL LABOR FORCE                                             RATE OP 51=17 0 Din.)           EX-7'
In Millions   % of Tate)              1972-74                    In US Dollars   Percen.t of A-ergor           19______
6/                             1972   1974    1972  1974    Average Annual Gro6th Rats          1972     1974   1972         1974    A-crage Annual Grovtl. kate
A.gricul ture                              3.9    3.8   47.8 45.0                -1.9                       823     1003  32.7          35.6              10.4
Manafacturing and Mining                   1.6    1.7   19.1  20.4                4.3                      4075     4395  162.1        155.8               3.9
Other                                      2.7    2.9   33.1 34.6                 3.2                      4050     4258  161.1        150.9               2.5
Total 6/                                   8.2    8.3   100.0 100.0               1.0                      2514     2821 100.0         100.0               5.9
j/ Preliminary.
2 Estimate.
3/ Figures may net add ecactly due tc rounding.
F/ Pderctsen, Republics and Aut-naes  Provinces. and Ceao-me;  figures cannoi be projected
b.causa of the far amachirg affects of the nme( tomatitutei  me the role of h.e lS.e, ad
the nice of its budget.
5/ Total resident active labor force.
6/ Labor force tn agriculture and non-agricultural private employment, and, accordingly,
total employment economy are estimates.
Esrope, IMiddle East 6 North Africa Region
February 12, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTEP.NAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Average Annual
Actual              Estimated      Projccted       Growth Rates
1972     1973     1974        1975            197&,           1972-75
SUMMARY OF bALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exporto (ecl. NFS)                     3425    4407      5694       6088            7319             21.1
ImPorts (incl. NFS)                   3821     5168     8312        8891            9961             32.5
Resource Balance (X-NH)                -395     -761   -2618       -2803           -2642
Interest                               -165    -222     -285        -305            -407             22.7
Worker. Re-crLo-ces                     889     1310     1511       1700            1926             24.1
OLher loctor  ervices net                17       50      93          70              -              60.3
Current Transfers (.et)                  74      87      110         120             132             17.5
8alaece on Current Account             419      4S4    -1189       -1218            -991
1/           .L
MALT Lue-e
Disb-rsoneort                        943      1170    1426        2101            2449             30.6
-Repayments                           -570    -686     -814       -1106           -1279             24.7
Net Disbursements                       373     484       612        995            1170             38.7
Gopitol Transactions e.e.i.-           -117     -285     139         320              -
Uce of-Reserves                        -675     -663     438         -97            -179                                         Actual
2/                                   Estimated
C8ANT AND LUAN COHMITTIENTS                                                            DEBT AND DENT SERVICE                1972    1973    1974    1975
Officoal Grants 6 Grant-like             -        -        -          -              Public Debt Out. & Disbursed
Poblic NhLT Looas                                                                    Interest en Public Debt              63.1    96.4   102.6   114.5
1SRD                                 75.0    104.9   256.5          -              Repayments no Public Debt           154.1   208.0   288.1   313.3
IDA                                    -       -        -           -              Total Public Debt Service           217.3   304.4   390.7   427.8
Other Moltilaterl                     -        -        -          -              Other Debt Service (net)            634.5   722.6   821.4   975.1
Gov-r-meots                         182.9    175.0    612.7          _             Total Debt Service (net)            851.8  1027.0  1212.1  1502.9
Suppliers                            82.3      3.1      .6          -                                       4/
F-nancial Institutions              142.0     19.4    367.5          -             Burdes on Export Earnisgt(%)
Bonds                                  -        -        -
Public Loans n.e.i.                    -        -       -           -              Public Debt Services Ratib            5.0     5.3     5.4     5.5
Total Public MOLT Leans               482.2    302.4   1237.3                        Total Debt Service Ratio             19.7    18.0    16.8    19.3
TDS - Direct Investment Inc.           -       -       -       -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1974
EXTERNAL DEBT                            Disbursements Only      Percent               Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                   424.6               19.9
IDA                                            -                   -                   Int. as % Prior Year L'O&D          4.7     5.9     5.4     5.4
Other Multilateral                             6.9                 .3                  Amort as 7 Prior Year DORD         11.4    12.8    15.1    14.7
Governments                                 1149.7               53.8
Suppliers                                    143.6                6.7                IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Financial Institutions                       392.5               18.4                  " as % Public Debt OD             19.5    18.4    19.9      -
Bonds                                         19.0                 .9                  "as % Public Debt Services         14.7    12.6    11.3    11.6
Public Debt nc.i.                              .3
2136.6              100.0
Other MALT Debts                            2833.2
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                   -
1/ Includes direct forecgu investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
Nationsl BHak and Conme,rcial Rank Credits.
3/ Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
4/ Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East 6 North Africa Region
February 12, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at March 31, 1976)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower               Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Fifteen Loans fully disbursed                                      434.7
657       1970   Yugoslav Investment Bank     Telecommunications    40.0     0.2
751       1971   SFRY                         Roads                 35.0     0.4
752      1971    Hotel "Bernardin", Piran     Tourism               10.0     3.6
777      1971    SFRY                         Multipurpose Water    45.0    34.7
782      1971    "Babirm Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism                20.0      9.9
836      1972    Twelve! Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia    Power                 75.0     23.1
894      1973    Stopanska Banka, Skopje      Agricultural
Industries          31.0    12.3
916       1973   Naftagas                     Gas Pipeline          59.4    24.8
947      1973    Kikinda                      Iron Foundry          14.5     4.3
965       1974   IMT                          Tractor Factory       18.5     1.5
966      1974    FOB                          Iron Foundry          15.0     8.5
990      1974    Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                 Roads                 30.0      4.4
1012     1974    Stopaaska Banka, Skopje      Industrial Credit     28.0    22.2
1013     1974    Privredna Banka Sarajevo     Industrial Credit     22.0    18.6
1026     1974    Commuaity of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways              93.0     76.3
1060     1974    Port of Bar                  Harbor Expansion      44.0    43.8
1066     1974    Vodovod Dubrovnik            Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     6.0
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural Credit   50.0    50.0
1143     1975    Republic Road Organization
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                 Roads                 40.0     40.0
1173/a   1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline              49.0    49.0
Total (less cancellation)                                1160.1   433.6
of which has been repaid                                  136.3
Total now outstanding                                    1023.8
Amount sold                             7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.2                 1.6
Total now held by Bank                                   1022.2
Total undisbursed                                                 433.6
/a   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1976)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business      Loan    Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation    Investment
for Yugoslavia                       Corporation      -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.       Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0     13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Mororjev         Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt       Industry        7.5     2.1      9.6
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler              Automotive
Benzz A.G.                            Industry       12.7     2.7     15.3
1972   Sava/Semperit                           Tires           4.0     1.5      5.5
1973   Belisce/Bell                            Pulp and Paper 13.3      -      13.2
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO                Special Steel  10.0      -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                          Cement Plant    10.0     -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Melaturski                     Steel           50.0     -      50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                  112.5   16.3    128.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    57.8     2.2     60.0
Total commitments held by IFC                             54.9   14.1     68.8
Total Undisbursed                                         36.6    5.8     39.4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20, 1970;
Effective Date: August 30, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1976.
After initial delays the Bank-financed part of the project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and is now nearing completion. The installation of
trunk exchanges which are not financed by the Bank, has been delayed and
will be fully completed shortly. We are in communication with the borrower
with respect to the undisbursed balance of $200,000.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective Date:
June 2, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well. All road sections but one are open for traffic. Completion
of the remaining section has been delayed due to lack of funds. While costs
have increased, future earmarked revenues from fuel taxes, particularly on
purchases of fuel by Italian motorists crossing the border to buy cheaper
fuel in Yugoslavia, have decreased. The final section is now expected to be
completed by September, 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
There have been delays in implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective, appointing consultants, providing the
necessary infrastructure and approvals by local authorities. As a result
disbursements are behind schedule. Bids received in July 1974 indicated that
the project, if it were to be implemented as originally envisaged (2,500 beds)
would cost approximately 100 percent above the originally estimated cost of
US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly due to rapid inflation in construc-
tion costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a re-
duced complex containing some 1,616 beds (Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December
16, 1974, R74-258). The total cost would be US$39.9 million requiring addi-
tional financing of about US$14 million. Financing for the revised project
has been agreed upon. The port hotel is scheduled for pre-opening occupancy
in April, 1976 and the village hotel complex is scheduled to open in May 1976;
however, serious construction problems with regard to the foundations were
encountered in the case of the cliff hotel, the completion of which has been
delayed until October, 1976.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction is
now underway with the main dam scheduled for completion by late 1976. A small
part of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder expected
to be completed in 1'78. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates
but the overrun financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo. Delays
have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjustment and agricul-
tural extension servLces. Consultants have been recently engaged to help find
solutions.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There have been delays in the implementation of the project due
to delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Ac-
cordingly disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems have
now been largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule.
Bids for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the
project would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9
million). This increase is largely due to rapid inflation in construction
costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a reduced
complex containing some 2,034 beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16,
1974, R74-259). The total cost would be US$51.5 million requiring additional
financing of about US$1.6 million. This additional financing for the revised
project has been arranged but in light of the increased financial commitments
necessary from the local banks and a re-evaluation of the financial capabilities
of the sponsor necessary to implement a project of this size, the local banks
and the Borrower have proposed and are discussing with the Bank a change in
sponsorship. This proposed change in sponsorship will be submitted to the
Executive Directors for their consideration after being fully reviewed by
the Bank. Meanwhile, construction is proceeding well and all civil works are
near completion. The hotels are scheduled to open in June, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project execution began about one year behind schedule mainly be-
cause of coordination difficulties and inherent delays in reaching agreement
among 12 borrowers. This is the first attempt at countrywide coordination
in the sector. All main contracts have been awarded and construction is
proceeding satisfactorily; however, the cost of the project has increased
84 percent from $225 million to $415 million chiefly due to escalation in
overall costs, including both civil works and equipment. The cost overrun
is expected to be financed from funds from the Federal Republic of Germany
and the borrowers' own resources. Action on appointment of management con-
sultants to help improve planning operation and management of the inter-
connected power system is still pending. Early difficulties with reporting,
changes in the organization of the sector, and determination of the financial
performance of individual borrowers have largely been resolved.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December
31,1978.
Sub-projects accounting for all but Din 7.75 million ($430,500
equivalent) of the amount allocated have been approved by the lending insti-
tution. Private sector demands for sub-loans have by far been in excess of
financing available under the project. Twenty-one sub-projects have been



ANNEX II
Page 5
completed and eighteen are under construction in the social sector. Of the
three studies encompassed by the project the one on irrigation has been
completed while the other two on marketing and private farm production
are in the final draft 3tage.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline:   US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
Bids received on pipes and equipment exceeded appraisal estimates
and civil works costs have increased so that project costs are now about 71
percent above the appraisal estimate. Accordingly the project has been re-
defined. Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II would
provide for a pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be con-
structed under the proposed Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for
which additional Bank financing will be proposed. Naftagas has obtained
additional local currency financing required for Phases I and II. The pro-
posed change will be submitted to the Executive Directors for their con-
sideration.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
Effectiveness was delayed about five months due primarily to the
extra time required for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement by the
Federal Assembly. Project implementation is about four months ahead of
schedule. Total project costs now are about 13 percent (Din. 79.0 million,
about US$4.6 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to large in-
creases in local costs. Financing of this cost overrun has been arranged
with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Effective Date:   June 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions of the project, however, is continuing.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
There presently is a 3 month delay in project implementation but
completion is expected to be on schedule. Local costs are about 27 percent
(Din. 173 million, about US$10.0 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates
due to design changes and domestic inflation. Financing of this local cost
overrun has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Two out of six road sections are complete and the remainder should
be completed by the enc of 1976. Two requests for changes in road align-
ments have been agreed; both changes were requested to accommodate communi-
ties which would be better served by the realignments.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
It is expected that the loan would be fully committed by September
1976 and disbursed by end-1977, ahead of appraisal estimates. The reasons
being: use of Bank funds to finance a greater than anticipated proportion
of the foreign exchange requirements of projects financed by the banks; the
suitability of Bank funds for investors' projects and the overall scarcity
of investment resources in Yugoslavia; and the banks' ability to adapt quickly
to the methodology proposed by IBRD for appraisal of projects submitted
for Bank financing.
Loan 1013 Bosnia Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the railways' invest-
ment plan. After serious delays in 1974, project execution improved sub-
stantially in 1975 but remains somewhat below appraisal forecasts. Delays
have been due principally to financial difficulties. Government and the
Community of Railways are having difficulties in raising tariffs sufficient
to cover inflationary costs and the Bank is currently reviewing this matter
with the Government. There has been good progress on investment planning
and project management.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but settlement of com-
pensation to occupiers of expropriated land and construction of alternative
housing must be accelerated to enable the construction of the railway mar-
shalling yards serving the new port facilities in due time. The Bank con-
tacted the Government of the Republic of Montenegro which has intervened
in this matter.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Preliminary works are underway, and services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk hotel complex (Loan 782-YU) will be finished in time for the
initial operation of the hotel complex.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effective
Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Two sub-projects from the autonomous Province of Vojvodina have al-
ready been approved and more sub-project applications from the other Republics
are presently being reviewed for approval.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Dat:e: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan was declared effective on March 30, 1976.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is June 30, 1976.






ANNEX III
Page 1
YUGOSLAV[A: MORAVA REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND WATER RESOURCES
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republicki Fond Voda (Socialist Republic of Serbia
Water Fund).
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:       Portions of the loan would be on-lent to the following
organizations:
(a) Komunalno Preduzece "Bioktos"-Titovo Uzice
(Communal Enterprise "Bioktos"-Titovo Uzice)
(b) Komunalna Organizacija Udruzenog Rada za Vodovod
i Kanalizaciju "Vodovod"-Cacak (Communal Organi-
zation for Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
"Vodovod"-Cacak)
(c) Zemljoradnicka Zadruga "Milosevac" (Milosevac
Farmers' Cooperative)
(d) Poljoprivredno-Industrijski Kombinat Aleksinac
(Aleksinac Agro-Industrial Kombinat)
(e) Republicki Fond za Poststicanje Razvoja Nedovoljno
Razvijenih Podrucja (Republic Fund for the Promo-
tion of Development of Underdeveloped Regions or
SFUR)
Amount:              US$20 million equivalent in various currencies, of which
US$13.5 million would be on-lent to the beneficiaries.
Terms:               Amortization in 20 years, including a 4-1/2 year grace
period, with interest at 8-1/2 percent.
Relending Terms:     Same as those for the Bank loan.
Project              The project has three primary objectives and components:
Description:
(a) Assistance to the Republic of Serbia to improve the
planning and management of water resources within
the Morava region in order to promote accelerated
economic development in the least-developed areas
of the Morava River Basin, to include:
(i) a study of ways to accelerate economic devel-
opment in three of the least-developed areas
of the Morava River Basin;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) a study of measures to adjust to the flood
hazards throughout the Morava River Basin;
(iii) a study to develop a program to improve
water quality in part of the Morava water-
shed, as a pilot project for the entire
Basin; and
(iv) staff training for MRWCI.
(b) Provision of improved water supplies and extension
of the sewer networks in the towns of Titovo Uzice
and Cacak, to include:
(i) water supply and sewage disposal systems for
the commune of Titovo Uzice comprising:
-  a concrete arch dam (70 m high),
- a water transmission line from the main
reservoir,
- a water treatment plant,
- transmission and distribution pipelines,
- pumping station and distribution reservoirs,
- sewage disposal systems, and
- engineering studies, including the final design
for a future sewage treatment plant.
(ii) water supply and wastewater disposal systems for
the commune of Cacak comprising:
- a wellfield development 2 km upstream of Cacak,
- collector pipeline and balancing reservoir,
- transmission and distribution pipelines,
- pumping station and distribution reservoirs,
- a sewage disposal system,
- storm drains to alleviate local flooding,
- engineering studies, including a water supply
system development study and the final
design for the future sewage treatment
plant.
(c)  Demonstration of the feasibility and economics of low
cost irrigation schemes, to include the construction,
operation, and monitoring of pilot irrigation schemes
covering approximately 400 ha in Milosevac and 200 ha
in Aleksinac.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million
Percent
(of total
Beneficiary and Project Components        Local  Foreign   Total    project cost)
Serbian Water Fund (SWF)
(a) Vrutci Dam                        10.1      3.7     13.8         26.9
(b) Flood Hazard Adjustment Study      1.3      0.5      1.8          3.5
(c) Water Quality   Study              0.5      0.4      0.9          1.8
(d) MRWCI Staff Training               0.05     0.05     0.1          0.2
Titovo Uzice-"Bioktos"
(a) Water Supply and Sewerage
System                          12.2      6.5     18.7        36.3
Cacak-Vodovod
(a) Water Supply and Sewerage
System                           8.3      3.8     12.1         23.6
(b) Storm Drainage System              1.5      0.6      2.1          4.2
Republic Fund for the Promotion
of Development of Under-
developed Regions (SFUR)
(a) Regional Development Study         0.4      0.1      0.5          1.0
Milosevac Farmers Cooperative
(a) Milosevac Pilot Irrigation
Project                          0.5      0.3      0.8          1.4
Aleksinac Agrokombinat
(a) Aleksinac Pilot Irrigation
Project                          0.4      0.2      0.6          1.1
Total Project Cost                        35.3    16.1     51.4        100.0
Interest During Construction on
Bank Loan                                        4.5      4.5
Total Project Financial Requirements
(including interest during construc-
tion) of which:                        35.3     20.6     55.9
Physical Contingencies                3.2     1.7      4.9          9.6
Price Increases                       6.3     2.9      9.3         18.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Financing Plan:
SWF  Bioktos Vodovod    SFUR   Milosevac Aleksinac   Total
(US$ millions)
Project Requirements:
Project Cost          16.61  18.68   14.28    0.51     0.81       0.55     51.44
Interest During
Construction         1.31   1.58   1.38     0.06     0.08       0.06      4.47
Total Requirements    17.92  20.26   15.66    0.57     0.89       0.61     55.91
Sources of Funds
IBRD Loan              6.46   7.26   5.55     0.20     0.32       0.21     20.00
Other Funds
Republic             8.60                   0.37     0.57       0.40      9.94
Local                2.86  13.00   10.11               _                 25.97
Total Sources         17.92  20.26   15.66    0.57     0.89       0.61     55.91
Expenditures to be      (i)  Equipment and Materials--100 percent of the c.i.f.
Financed by the Loan:       cost of directly imported equipment, materials
and pipes; 35 percent of locally procured equip-
ment, materials and pipes;
(ii) Civil works--100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 35 percent of expenditures for locally won
construction and installation contracts (for the
Vrutci Dam, Titovo Uzice, Cacak, Milosevac, and
Aleksinac facilities) including 35 percent or up
to US$1.4 million of force account work in Titovo
Uzice and Cacak;
(iii)  Consultant Services--100 percent of the foreign
cost of consulting and engineering services;
35 percent for local consultants; 100 percent
of foreign training costs of MRWCI staff;
(iv)  Interest During Construction--100 percent of
interest and other charges on the Bank loan
during construction.
Estimated Disbursements:
Amount (US$ million)
Calendar Year        Annual              Cumulative
1976              1.4                   1.4
1977              5.5                   6.9
1978              6.2                  13.1
1979              5.3                  18.4
1980              1.6                  20.0



ANNEX III
Page 5
Procurement          Equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more
Arrangements        than US$100,000 would be awarded after international com-
petitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Guide-
lines for Procurement. For the purpose of bid comparison,
it is proposed that qualified domestic manufacturers of
these goods would be given a margin of preference of 15
percent or custom duties, whichever is lower. Civil
works contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000
would be awarded after ICB. The other equipment supply
and civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with local procedures which are acceptable. Local
contractors are expected to win contracts for most
of the construction work in the towns of Titovo Uzice
and Cacak, but Bioktos and Vodovod will carry out minor
works by force account (such as renovations and modifica-
tions to existing facilities or installing new pipes)
using their existing staff and equipment. The total
value of such works carried out by force account would
be limited to US$4.0 million (8 percent of the project
cost). Most equipment supply and civil works contracts
are expected to be won by Yugoslav firms. Expenditures
of about US$1.0 million are expected to be incurred
prior to loan signature on the water supply and waste-
water systems of Bioktos and Vodovod. Retroactive
financing of not more than US$1.0 million is proposed.
Technical            (a)  SWF:  About 20 manyears for assistance with final
Assistance:              design, tender documents, and supervision of con-
(Consultants)            struction of the Vrutci dam; about 70 manyears for
assistance to carry out the flood hazard adjustinent
and water quality improvement studies; and, a
panel of internationally experienced engineers to
provide independent expert advice on the Vrutci
dam construction.
(b) Bioktos: About 35 manyears for assistance with
final design, tender documents, and supervision of
construction of the water supply and wastewater
components and about 5 manyears for assistance
of the design of the future wastewater treatment
plant for Titovo Uzice.
(c) Vodovod: About 20 manyears for assistance with
final design, tender documents, and supervision
of construction of the water supply and sewerage
and storm drainage components; about 5 manyears
for assistance for the design of the future sewage
treatment plant for Cacak; about 5 manyears for
assistance to complete a water supply system
development study.



ANNEX III
Page 6
(d) SFUR: About 23 manyears for assistance to carry
out the regional development study.
(e) Milosevac Farmers' Cooperative and Aleksinac
Agrokombinat: About 3 manyears for assistance with
final design and supervision of construction for
the pilot irrigation system.
Rate of Return:      Benefits not sufficiently quantifiable to calculate a
rate of return on most project components. Pilot
irrigation components would provide economic rates of
return of approximately 20 percent.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:    December 31, 1979
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 991-YU
Date May 3, 1976
Water Supply & Sewerage Division
EMENA Projects Department



-UII  .W  AUNOA1 f | t / t             yA2r2
YUGOSLAVIAA,
No"^'' ,ADMr~~ffe  Ro^3ANIA  D _ ,/  X           MORAVA REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
22H              ORBIT AKIO     0v    _  ~    >WATER RESOURCES PROJECTS IN THE MORAVA RIVER BASIN
Y!OLO A'V I A                                             PI- ;g f21 'ri  WAV  d
,z J  V" '                                              I I.  -  !,  ,   Ro -sdl
[ABAN_AT SMrdrl)  h.9> 1i 04       , '--  O  N  2t 2 .   - D- ~       Co,, !5'4'OOOO 'cr-OPT)lo  _2.l
/    /   \  F       l/ JRt5In 31/r
\      --<l   -,-  #       )-  rr-D     k    >0     K             C  DPRA TR SO, K lPLJE
/  2K-.-                    Pczn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-.>      ~~~~~~.
22202 --T',N  il  /--j--  -Fl   I<av                        I(  / ;    (<A  .   * m
3\-2aDaMI~~~~~~~~V   '  9120 ~ ~   '
DM O2 N  /lVGR       f                                                 . < J i .}4 
S  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1F
N\/i'9ffdf                                                     -f) MAN
0  r N I A
H E R Z E G OV.                                                    (I ICNA'vr2
OIHAtr~~~~~~~~~~~N'N  VA  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          A R1 
NISTRICA0
r m'  ~ 'T~C  DAM4  ANNBRAD 
S K 0 V AK,-
MOCN T E NG CR 0     -Q 
N~~                           "I V  RJ  N  f  
*1'~A
K  4)  AL\BANI'IA  \-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8                    GA 
L     B    I   A-
A     N(C                                  ~-lt                       '






IBRD 11637Rl
APRIL 1976
YUGOSLAVIA
MORAVA REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TITOVO UZICE WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES
EXISTING                    PROJECT
Water Supply Network        Water Supply Mains
B  CEROVICA z!    )                       /    ) 8                                        */  Water Source            *   Treatment Plant
Treatment Plant         0   Reservoirs
g   GCrolc Hil RPoro R ........\  <  Glu\oc R.lert 1               a   Pumping Stations        a   Pumping Stotions
./1   Industrial Raw Water Systems
p  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                Public Water Tops
____Momn Roads
Railroa id
TURICA                  --6Q3                    Contours in Meters, 50 m  Intervals  N
0        500      1000
METERS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                                                    ,   -n W_,QW+~ . r 
1                                 FP c o M ro                                                I   /  (
|                                            Ir     l   b-    ]   hb./ sar* m s~~~~~~~~~~7~ 
A65STRdt*1h .
~SLOVENIA<-' oI
BOSNIA-     BELGRADE  8-                                                                                             --Od
TIOV  UZICE                                                       50RRC
AC,ia&,,k00J,CEoJiYIA,CE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0






IBRD 11638RI
APRIL 19w
YUGOSLAVIA
MORAVA REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TITOVO UZICE WASTEWATER FACILITIES
Evisting Sewers
CEROVICA  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5. ~~~~~~~~~Existing          Sewer  Out fa I
HILL     i                                                                                     Existing  M ir,, Polluters of the  River
Project Sewers
Future Wastewater Treatment Plant
Main Roads
Railroad
500os-  Contours in Meters, 5 _m Intervals
-,86runsDum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ too\S  oo    N s\ f c 
METERSt
IO  Or                    :                          e  r  A,                                                i               5oo,o(    /
50  e2~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~P--      t
S ~ ~ ~ D EiBsvu    0'- R MA
A oundTRI rd o&f, Rer                                                                                               EVOJnd r14_f g\  
CVIA  Pe               0                                                                                       Airrr-r F crtorY
I        ~~~~~T qB - ~ve
B05. A     BELGRADE
AERlEGOs  ~ SRB                                             \ A
suceisun                                                                      Pr,erpng  Sruirun  - ~~~~~     Frirre  Worsr,, K-nF
e  io u iRCE T  o.
hr  e  C' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg
rrr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BI,d
ke -  h-t Bo       -11E~~~~~~~>0
Bou-dent ot Reprlc  n 
A.t.--u, P- sILrEcES           uh, blrnlr  ....n, ..  -cr pur   dI  i-r
re                           ............. ed  ivofros 






IBRD 11639R]
I9~~~~~~5        200 ~~~~~~~~~~-Z) (N                 2O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  APRIL 1976~~~~~~~~~~ARI 17
YUGOSLAVIA
MORAVA REGION DEVELOPMENT            \          'r
PROJECT                                        j   <Pi       j 
WESTERN MORAVA RIVER BASIN-"
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-44.0'4<
s                                                                             44,00,~~~~~~~~~~~~~VSl  Sv1
4                                A%f7~~~
I        '     I               rilpe~~~~~~RA
~~~~ ~~~~~- 
'co~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ G                                    TRECO MNTOR  PLANTISFOM,G,-9O
I                                                             ROD
433I5
I'. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~--- .EOOR  OD






YUGOSLAVIA
MORAVA REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CACAK
WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES
DADA SADACA 0' CAIDVINA COUP SAPP> C'SCE*s
PDS?,O.A GTRANS00SAIAN MAINS                                 f                 _       _-.> 
000i Ui NAIl OCAt d,*C  00,AtCAV  1500 liD>>< uNAJJ(S 
 I  A II I A TAA T
-I CONTOOUAP  ID MATER  ITEARVIAS -,sr _y/^g -S?01S 
/;i/
F.- ~~~                     ~          ~         ~          -
~X -_ 0-N-    '
...... ._..
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __-_ _ _ _ _ _ __J_ 0






18BRD  11641RI
YUGOSLAVIA 
MORAVA REGIOAN DEVELOPMENT PROJE
WASTEWATER AND STORM\ . C\...... -
U E G ST.TION I-XS-IGI )__       /    8                                                  a   % 
STR RILAGNE.  NO./ >2yX<  0X/X(                                   I 
-    -  L19GU9N LANG90ORY(aSG a ;.; /18 C $T 
F1 7  RAN- E ANN  0NAYCGGh}X      \   0                                              1i/              f
-#oCNOR Gee NE.VAS  t_fiTo-FIIC
PLA NNE.
X,~~~~9-E ,LW F. AN                                                                          'j\ * s 
0~~p s < \~~L F' A5  9 1 20 GO 609,i  ia bo Falelstw  ) 
F..   CIT  OD-In EC                                               /;            9 



