CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1262 YU
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Morava Region Development Project:
Water Supply, Sewerage and Water Resources)
between
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 14, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1976, between SOCIALIST FEDERAL RE-
PUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Republicki Fond Voda (Republic Water Fund) (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Bor-
rower a loan in various currenLies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations undsr the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to
that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or
other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to
any lien created on assets of any of its political or administra-
tive subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿*                              -5-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement or by Bioktos and Titovo Uzice of
their obligations under the Bioktos Project Agreement or under the
Bioktos Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or by Vodovod and Cacak of their
obligations under the Vodovod Project Agreement or under the Vodo-
vod Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or by Milosevac of its obligations
under the Milosevac Project Agreement, or by Aleksinac of their
obligations under the Aleksinac Project Agreement, and that, with-
in the limits of its constitutional powers, it will take or cause
to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to
enable the Borrower, Bioktos, Vodovod, Titovo Uzice, Cacak,
Milosevac, or Aleksinac to perform such obligations.
01


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Federal Secretary for Finance of the Guar-
antor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Savezni Sekretarijat za Finansije
Bulevar AVNOJ-a 104
11070 Belgrade
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                     Telex:
SAVEZNI SEKRETARIJAT ZA            11448 YU (SIV)
FINANSIJE
BELGRADE
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ Dimce Belovski
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


