CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1262 YU
ALEKSINAC PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Morava Region Development Project:
Water Supply, Sewerage and Water Resources)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
POLJOPRIVREDNO-INDUSTRIJSKI KOMBINAT ALEKSINAC
(Agro-Industrial Kombinat Aleksinac)
Dated June 14, 1976


﻿ALEKSINAC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and POLJOPRIVREDNO-INDUSTRIJSKI KOMBINAT ALEKSINAC (Agro-Industrial
Kombinat Aleksinac) (hereinafter called Aleksinac).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republicki Fond Voda (Republic Water Fund) (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Alek-
sinac agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as here-
inafter set forth;
WHEREAS for purposes of assisting Aleksinac to carry out Part
C of the Project, the Borrower has agreed to make a portion of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement avail-
able to Aleksinac on the terms and conditions therein and herein-
after set forth;
WHEREAS Aleksinac has informed the Bank that the Executive
Council of the City Assembly of Aleksinac has passed a resolution
number 461-2/76 dated March 17, 1976 whereby said Executive Coun-
cil has approved Aleksinac's request to undertake a program of
land consolidation and adjustment of farm boundaries on about 200
ha of land registered on the cadaster sections of Aleksinac, Bobo-
viste and Trujane for the purpose of carrying out an experimental
irrigation scheme and whereby said Executive Council has authorized


﻿-2-
Aleksinac to undertake said program; Aleksinac has represented
to the Bank that such approval and authorization provided under
said resolution constitute under the laws and regulations in
force and effect all the consents and approval needed for such
purpose and that pursuant to said resolution Aleksinac has full
power and authority to conduct such program; and
WHEREAS Aleksinac, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Aleksinac shall carry out Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Aleksinac in the preparation
of final designs of Part C of the Project and in the supervision
of the construction of Part C of the Project, Aleksinac shall
employ no later than October 1, 1976, or such other date as the
Bank may agree, consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for Part C of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Aleksinac undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion, and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by Aleksinac to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Aleksinac shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Part C of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Aleksinac shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for Part C of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Aleksinac: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part C of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in Part C of the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part C of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank within
forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request
on the progress of Part C of the Project, during such quarter; and
(iv) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it
and the goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Aleksinac shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of Aleksinac and any relevant records and
documents, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.06. (a) Aleksinac shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part C
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Aleksinac shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Aleksinac of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.07. Aleksinac shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in Part C of the Project
and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Part C of
the Project.
Section 2.08. Aleksinac shall, during a period of five years,
starting on January 1, 1977, take all such action as may be re-
quired to assist the Republic in the monitoring, analysis and
evaluation of the results of the carrying out of Part C of the
Project in accordance with the arrangements referred to in Recital
M of the Loan Agreement.


﻿*                            -T -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Aleksinac
Section 3.01. (a) Aleksinac shall at all ti as manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan itL Aiture expansion
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial and administrative practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate, ex-
perienced and competent staff.
(b) Aleksinac shall at all times operate, maintain, renew
and repair its facilities, plants, equipment, machinery and
property, (including but not limited to all facilities, plants,
equipment, machinery and property financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan), and promptly make all necessary repairs and re-
newals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and agricul-
tural practices.
(c) Aleksinac shall take all action within its power to m,ain-
tain its existence and right to carry on operations and shall take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the con-
duct of its business.
(d) Aleksinac shall not, without the prior approval of the
Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient opera-
tion of its business and undertaking.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. Aleksinac shall take out and maintain with re-
sponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. Aleksinac shall, no later than December 31,
1977, complete a program of land consolidation and adjustment of
farm boundaries acceptable to the Bank within the area where Part
C of the Project is to be carried out.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Aleksinac shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. Aleksinac shall: (i) have its accounts and fi-
nancial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of Aleksinac and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. If the completion of Part C of the Project is
hindered or delayed, or is threatened with hindrance or delay,
because the funds available to Aleksinac are inadequate to insure
its completion, Aleksinac shall promptly demand that the Republic
provide Aleksinac, or cause Aleksinac to be provided, with the
necessary funds as and when required.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and Aleksinac, respectively, thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the Loan Agreement shall ter-
minate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)      a date 7 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify Aleksinac of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.04. Aleksinac: (i) represent that all obligations
of Aleksinac under the Aleksinac Project Agreement, which shall
or may require for its performance the approval, cooperation or
financial assistance of any governmental authorities having juris-
diction are undertaken with the consent and full support of such


﻿- 11 -
authorities; and (ii) agree that no action or failure to act by
such authorities shall excuse the performance of such obligation
by Aleksinac or limit the remedies of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement in respect of any default in the performance of such
obligations.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have de-
signated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Aleksinac:
Poljoprivredno-Industrisj ski
Kombinat Aleksinac
Aleksinac,
Yugoslavia
Cable address:
PIK ALEKSINAC
Aleksinac


﻿-13-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Aleksinac may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as such Managing
Director shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. Aleksinac shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Aleksinac, take
any action or execute any documents required o2w permitted to be
taken or executed by Aleksinac, pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.0. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
POLJOPRIVREDNO-INDUSTRIJSKI KOMBINAT ALEKSINAC
By Is! Naum Ackovski
Authorized Representative


