CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1262 YU
BIOKTOS PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Morava Region Development Project:
Water Supply, Sewerage and Water Resources)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SKUPSTINA OPSTINE TITOVO UZICE
(The City Assembly of Titovo Uzice)
and
KOMUNALNO PREDUZECE
"BIOKTOS" TITOVO UZICE
(Communal Enterprise
"Bioktos" - Titovo Uzice)
Dated June 14, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SKUPSTINA OPSTINE TITOVO UZICE (City Assembly of Titovo Uzice)
(hereinafter called Titovo Uzice) and KOMUNALNO PREDUZECE "Bioktos"
Titovo Uzice (Communal Enterprise "Bioktos" - Titovo Uzice) (here-
inafter called Bioktos).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republicki Fond Voda (Republic Water Fund) (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Titovo
Uzice and Bioktos agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Bioktos, an Organization of Associated Labor estab-
lished and existing in accordance with its Statutes dated June 20,
1973, is responsible, inter alia, for water supply, sewerage and
drainage systems in the city of Titovo Uzice;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into be-
tween the Borrower and Bioktos, a portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to Bioktos on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS Titovo Uzice and Bioktos, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Bioktos shall carry out Part E of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist Bioktos in the prepara-
tion of plans and specifications for, in the preparation of bid-
ding documents for, and in the supervision of the construction of,
Part E (1), (2) and (4) of the Project, Bioktos shall employ, no
later than September 30, 1976, or such other date as the Bank may
agree, engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) In order to assist Bioktos in the preparation of final
designs of a wastewater plant for Titovo Uzice under Part E(3) of
the Project to be located near the Djetinja River, Bioktos shall
employ, no later than September 30, 1976, or such other date as
the Bank may agree, engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.


﻿0                           -5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for Part E of the Project shall be procured by
Bioktos in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Bioktos undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely us-
able by Bioktos to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Bioktos shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part
E of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Bioktos shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part E of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Bioktos: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part E of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in Part E of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,


﻿enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in Part E of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank within forty-five
calendar days after each calendar quarter a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the
progress of Part E of the Project, during such quarter; and (iv)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Part E of the Project, the expendi-
ture of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods,
works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Bioktos shall enable the Bank's representatives to ex-
amine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of Bioktos and any relevant records and documents,
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.06. Bioktos shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Bioktos shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.OT. (a) Bioktos shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
E of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Bioktos Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Bioktos shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of


﻿*                           -7-
Part E of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Bioktos of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Bioktos Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Bioktos shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and
operation) of the facilities included in Part E of the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to Part E of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Bioktos
Section 3.01. (a) Bioktos shall at all times manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial and public utility practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate, ex-
perienced and competent staff.
(b) Bioktos shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and
repair its facilities, plants, equipment, machinery and property
(including but not limited to all facilities, plants, equipment,
machinery and property financed out of the proceeds of the Loan),
and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Bioktos shall take all action within its power to main-
tain its existence and right to carry on operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Bioktos shall
obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan free and clear of all encumbrances.
(e) Bioktos shall not, without the prior approval of the
Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its


﻿-9-
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient opera-
tion of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.02. Bioktos shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. (a) Bioktos shall not undertake or execute, for
its own account or for the account of any third party or parties,
any major project or development other than Part E of the Project,
which would substantially and adversely affect the carrying out of
Part E of the Project, the operation of the facilities included in
Part E of the Project, the conduct of Bioktos' business, the Biok-
tos' financial situation, or the efficiency of the Bioktos' manage-
ment and personnel.
(b) For the purpose of this Section, the term "major project
or development", means any project or development with an invest-
ment character resulting in estimated aggregate capital expendi-
tures exceeding $500,000, or the equivalent, or such other amount
as shall be agreed from time to time between the Bank and Bioktos.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Bioktos shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on the generality of
the provisions of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section
Bioktos shall maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition in respect of its
water supply and wastewater operations; such account shall be main-
tained in such a manner so as to enable Bioktos and the Bank to
identify Bioktos water supply and wastewater operations independ-
ently from its other operations.
Section 4.02. Bioktos shall: (i) have its accounts, including
but without limitation the separate accounts referred to in para-
graph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and re-
lated statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social
Accounting Service or another competent and experienced independent
auditing organization acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such


﻿0                            -11 -
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the ac-
counts, including but without limitation the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement,
and financial statements of Bioktos and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Bioktos shall, no later than December 31,
1978, or such other date as the Bank may agree, make arrangements,
acceptable to the Bank, with the Borrower for the payment each year
to the Borrower of an appropriate share of the Borrower's annual
costs of operation and maintenance of, and of an appropriate share
of the amortization of the capital cost of, the Vrutci dam and
reservoir to be constructed under Part A (2) of the Project and
shall thereafter as and when due make prompt payment to the Bor-
rover of any amounts due to the Borrower pursuant to such arrange-
ments.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Bioktos shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any of the provisions
of the arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 4.03
of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Bioktos shall:
(a) implement until December 31, 1980: the tariff scale for
water supply and sewerage as set out in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment or such other tariff scales for water supply and sewerage as


﻿- 12 -
shall produce revenues at least equivalent to revenues produced by
the tariffs included in the tariff scale set out in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and thereafter a modified tariff scalP which, to-
gether, with its other revenues, shall provide operating revenues
sufficient:
(i) to cover in any given year all operating expenses
including employee compensations, administrative
and overhead costs, adequate maintenance costs,
and adequate provision for taxes and other contri-
bution provided by law, if any, but excluding de-
preciation;
(ii) to cover in any given year debt amortization in-
cluding sinking ftmds payments, if any, and inter-
est and other charges on debt;
(iii) to provide for adequate increases in working
capital;
(iv) to make contributions as necessary to reserve and
other authorized funds; and
(v) to finance not less than 20% during the year 1981,
and beginning with the year 1982 to finance each
year not less than 30%, of the average cost of
investment in water and sewerage facilities, includ-
ing interest during construction, during each con-
secutive three-year period comprising the year for


﻿-13-
which the tariffs are dete:-tined together with the
year immediately preceding and the year immediately
following such year for which the tariffs are de-
termined.
(b) take all such steps as are necessary (including ad, 'st-
ment of its charges) to ensure that during each fiscal year its
charges related to services other than water supply and sewerage
operations shall provide operating revenues sufficient:
(i) to cover in any given year all operating expenses
relating to such services including employee com-
pensation, administrative and overhead costs, ade-
quate maintenance costs, interest and adequate pro-
vision for taxes and other contributions provided
by law, if any, and adequate depreciation;
(ii) to cover in any given year debt amortization relat-
ing to such services;
(iii) to provide for adequate increases in working capi-
tal required for such services;
(iv) to make contributions as necessary to reserve and
other authorized funds relating to such services;
and
(v) to the extent that other appropriate sources of
financing are not available to Bioktos, to finance
such proportion of the cost of investment in the


﻿-14-
facilities required to render such services includ-
ing interest during construction, for such fiscal
year.
(c) for purposes of the foregoing and as part of such in-
formation as may be requested under Section 2.07 of this Agree-
ment, within the first six months of each year:
(i) prepare and furnish to the Bank an updated state-
ment of sources and application of funds covering
in every case (A) until the year 1978, the period
1976-1980 and (B) thereafter the current year and
the following two years; and
(ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank all other relevant
information concerning the steps taken or planned
to be taken by Bioktos in order to comply with its
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Bioktos shall not incur any debt, other than debt incurred for
purposes of Part E of the Project and referred to in Recital (G)
to the Loan Agreement, if the net revenues for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence shall be less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all
of its debt then outstanding (including the debt to be incurred).
(b) For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-15-
(i) the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under
a loan contract or agreement, on the date the
loan contract or agreement providing for such
debt or modifying its terms of payment is en-
tered into, and (B) under a guarantee agree-
ment on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee is entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues
from all sources adjusted to take account of
tariffs in effect at the time of calculation
even though they were not in effect during the
twelve consecutive months to which such reve-
nues related, less operating and administrative
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes
and levies, if any, or any payments in lieu
thereof, and personal remuneration, but before
provision for depreciation and debt service
requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and
other charges on debt; and


﻿- 16-
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in an-
other currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by Bioktos, at the
time such valuation is made, for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
the Borrower shall prepay part, or all, of the principal a munt
outstanding of any debt of Bioktos, Bioktos shall prepay a pro-
portionate part, or all, as the case may be, of the loan provided
for under the Bioktos Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.07. If the completion of Part E of the Project is
hindered or delayed, or is threatened with hindrance or delay,
because the funds available to Bioktos are inadequate to ensure
their completion, Bioktos shall promptly demand that Beogradska
Banka, Beograd provide Bioktos, or cause Bioktos to be provided,
with the necessary funds as and when required, in accordance with
the provisions of the Agreement referred to in Recital G (iii) of
the Preamble to the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Undertakings of Titovo Uzice
Section 5.01. Titovo Uzice unconditionally undertakes, when-
ever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available
to Binktos will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures
required for the carrying out of Part E of the Project, to make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide Bioktos,
or cause Bioktos to be provided, with such funds as are needed to
meet such expenditures.
Section 5.02. (a) Titovo Uzice covenants that it will not take
or cause or permit any of its organs to take any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by Bioktos of any of its
obligations contained in this Agreement and will take or cause to
be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable
Bioktos to perform such obligations;
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 5.02, Titovo Uzice shall take all such action, in-
cluding the approval of applications on the part of Bioktos for
tariff increases, as shall be required to enable Bioktos, to gen-
erate the revenues necessary to meet the requirements of Section
4.04 of this Agreement.
Section 5.03. (a) Titovo Uzice shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Part E of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿- 18 -
(b) Titovo Uzice shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the prog-
ress of Part E of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by Titovo Uzice of its obligations
under this Agreement.


﻿-19 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Titovo Uzice and Bioktos, respectively, thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
0                  (ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify Titovo Uzice and Bioktos,
respectively, of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.04. Titovo Uzice and Bioktos: (i) represent that
all obligations of Titovo Uzice and Bioktos under the Bioktos Proj-
ect Agreement and under the Bioktos Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
respectively, which shall or may require for its performance the


﻿-20-
approval, cooperation or financial assistance of any governmental
authorities having jurisdiction are undertaken with the consent
and full support of such authorities; and (ii) agree that no ac-
tion or failure to act by such authorities shall excuse the per-
formance of such obligation by Titovo Uzice and Bioktos or limit
the remedies of the Bank under the Loan Agreement in respect of any
default in the performance of such obligations.


﻿-21 -
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Titovo Uzice:
V                     JI
Skupstina Opstine Titovo Uzice
Titovo Uzice


﻿- 22-
Cable address:
Skupstina Opstine Titovo Uzice
Titovo Uzice
For Bioktos:
Komunalno Preduzece "Bioktos"
Titovo Uzice
Marsala Tita 26
Titovo Uzice
Yugoslavia
Cable address:
"BIOKTOS
TITOVO UZICE
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Titovo Uzice and Bioktos may be taken or
executed by the President of the City Assembly of Titovo Uzice and
Direktor of Bioktos, respectively, or such other person or persons
as such President and Direktor, respectively, shall designate in
writing.
Section 7.03. Titovo Uzice and Bioktos shall each furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
Titovo Uzice and Bioktos, respectively, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by
Titovo Uzice and Bioktos, respectively, pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿()                                    -23-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SKUPSTINA OPSTINE TITOVO UZICE
By /s/ Naum Ackovski
Authorized Representative
KOMUNALNO PREDUZECE "BIOKTOS" TITOVO UZICE
By /s/ Naum Ackovski
Authorized Representative


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 1
Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
1976-1980
Water Supply             Sewerage
3                   .3
Price: Din per m       Surcharge: Din per m
Other                    Other
Date           Household     Consumers Household      Consumers
July 1, 1976          2.25           3.45      0.30           0.45
July 1, 1977          3.40           5.20      0.45           0.70
July 1, 1978          4.75           7.25      0.65           0.95
July 1, 1979          6.60          10.15      0.90           1.35
July 1, 1980          9.25          14.20      1.25           1.85


