CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1262 YU
MILOSEVAC PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Morava Region Development Project:
Water Supply, Sewerage and Water Resources)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZEMLJORADNICKA ZADRUGA "MILOSEVAC"
(Milosevac Farmers' Cooperative)
Dated June 14, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and ZEMLJORADNICKA ZADRUGA "MILOSEVAC" (Milosevac Farmers' Cooper-
ative) (hereinafter called Milosevac).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republicki Fond Voda (Republic Water Fund) (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Milo-
sevac agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as here-
inafter set forth;
WHEREAS for purposes of assisting Milosevac to carry out Part
B of the Project, the Borrower has agreed to make a portion of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement avail-
able to Milosevac on the terms and conditions therein and herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS Milosevac, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Con-
ditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Milosevac shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Milosevac in the preparation
of final designs for Part B of the Project and in the supervision
of the construction of Part B of the Project, Milosevac shall
employ no later than October 1, 1976, or such other date as the Bank
may agree, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for Part B of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Milosevac undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by Milosevac to replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Milosevac shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Part B of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Milosevac shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part B of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Milosevac: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part Part B of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rover, and to disclose the use thereof in Part B of the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Part B of the Proj-
ect and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
within forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request on the progress of Part B of the Project, during such
quarter; and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made avail-
able to it and the goods, works and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿)                                     -5 -
(c) Milosevac shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of Milosevac and any relevant records and documents,
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.06. (a) Milosevac shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Milosevac shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Milosevac of its obligations under this
.       Agreement.
Section 2.07. Milosevac shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in Part B of the Project
and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Part B of
the Project.
Section 2.08. Milosevac shall, during a period of five years,
starting on January 1, 1977, take all such action as may be required
to assist the Republic in the monitoring, analysis and evaluation
of the results of the carrying out of Part B of the Project in
accordance with the arrangements referred to in Recital M of the
Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Milosevac
Section 3.01. (a) Milosevac shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and administrative practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate, experienced and competent staff.
(b) Milosevac shall at all times operate, maintain, renew
and repair its facilities, plants, equipment, machinery and prop-
erty (including but not limited to all facilities, plants, equip-
ment, machinery and property financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan), and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals there-
of, in accordance with sound engineering and agricultural prac-
tices.
(c) Milosevac shall take all action within its power to main-
tain its existence and right to carry on operations and shall take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(d) Milosevac shall not, without the prior approval of the
Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient oper-
ation of its business and undertaking.


﻿* --
Section 3.02. Milosevac shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Milosevac shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. Milosevac shall: (i) have its accounts and fi-
nancial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent
and experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of
Milosevac and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. If the completion of Part B of the Project is
hindered or delayed, or is threatened with hindrance or delay,
because the funds available to Milosevac are inadequate to insure
its completion, Milosevac shall promptly demand that the Republic
provide Milosevac, or cause Milosevac to be provided, with the
necessary funds as and when required.


﻿*                            -9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Milosevac thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)      a date 7 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify Milosevac of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.04. Milosevac: (i) represents that all obligations
of Milosevac under the Milosevac Project Agreement, which shall or
may require for its performance the approval, cooperation or fi-
nancial assistance of any governmental authorities having juris-
diction are undertaken with the consent and full support of such


﻿- 10 -
authorities; and (ii) agrees that no action or failure to act by
such authorities shall excuse thr, performance of such obligation
by Milosevac or limit the remedies of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment in respect of any default in the performance of such obliga-
tions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Milosevac:
Zemljoradnicka Zadruga "Milosevac"
Milosevac
Cable address:
Zemljoradnicka Zadruga
Milosevac


﻿- 12-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Milosevac may be taken or executed by
its Direktor or such other person or persons as such Direktor
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. Milosevac shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Milosevac, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by Milosevac pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ZEMLJORADNICKA ZADRUGA "MILOSEVAC"
By Is/ Naum Ackovski
Authorized Representative


