Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4056-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$178.o MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
May 6, 1985
This dxocment has a reticted distributio and may be used by recipients  y in the perf rmwneeof
theidr official duties. ItS contentsma nuot othenrwie be disclosd witbuut World Bbnk nsohorinizn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 15.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -   Asian Development Bank
CIDA        -   Canadian International Development Agency
ENERCON     -   National Energy Conservation Center
ENERPLAN    -   Office of Energy Planning
ESL         -   Energy Sector Loan
CSP         -   Geological Survey of Pakistan
KESC        -   Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
KGC         -   Karachi Gas Company
NRL         -   National Refinery Limited
OGDC        -   Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PHDC        -   Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PSO         -   Pakistan State Oil
SNGPL       -   Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Limited
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA       -   Wa-er and Power Development Authority



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
(i)
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiaries:         WAPDA, OCDC, KESC, PSO, SNGPL, KGC and PHDC.
Amount:                 US$178 million.
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:        From the Government of Pakistan to WAPDA at llX p.a.
and to all other beneficiaries at 14Z p.a., with the
other lending terms being the same as those of the
Bank.
Project Description:   The Loan would support the Government's reform
program in the energy sector, as outlined in the
attached development policy letter from the
Government to the Bank, and assist in the
implementation of the Government's core energy
investment program for the period FY86-87. The
reform program consists of a number of significant
improvements in the areas of: development and
investment; pricing and demand management; and
institutional development. The core investment
program takes into account the inter-linkages among
energy subsectors and the implementation and
financing capabilities of the Government.
The Loan has been designed through extensive
analysis and discussions on key sector issues between
the Government and Bank staff. The reform program
and care investment program constitute an integrated
and comprehensive policy and investment framework for
the efficient development of Pakistan's energy
sector.
The Loan would finance imports of equipment and
material required by priority projects included in
the core investment program, as well as for the
efficient operation of existing facilities. The main
risk relates to possible political events which may
impede the implementation of the program. The risk
is considered minimal.
Thidcuent has a restcted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ir offiia dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorizaton.



(ii,
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
- -----US$ Million ---
Power
WAPDA                                     757.4     477.9      1,235.3
KESC                                      116.9      70.4        187.3
Petroleum
OGDC                                      138.1     235.5        373.6
SNGPL                                     107.8      58.6        166.4
PSO                                        19.3       4.4         23.7
KGC                                        16.7        7.5        24.2
Coal
PMDC                                        6.1       5.6         11.7
Planning &
Conservation                                  7.8        8.6         16.4
Total Cost                           1,170.2      868.4      2,038.6
Financing Plan
IBRD - Proposed Loan                         -        178.0        178.0
Other - IBRD/IDA                             -         172.6       172.6
Other Multilateral                           -          98.6        98.6
Bilateral Aid &
Suppliers' Credits                        -         284.3        284.3
Internal Generation                         583.3       -          583.0
Local Borrowing                             210.0       -          210.0
Government of Pakistan                      376.9     134.9        511.8
Total                                1,170.2      868.4      2,038.6
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements:
FY86      FY87
--US$ Hillion----
Annual                                         -      104.5       73.5
Cumulative                                     -      104.5      178.0
Appraisal Report: N.A.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Energy
Sector Loan of US$178 million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan: Recent Economic DeveLop-
ments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20, 1985) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted
in FY84 due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remittances,
and the carry-over of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP growth slowed to
3.5% as a result of a 6.2Z fall in agricultural value added caused by adverse
weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by 8.3% and services by 6.2%.
Fixed investment rose by 6.5%, while private investment increased by 11.5%.
National savings fell to 12.1% of GNP as a result of a drop in private
savings. Public savings remained low reflecting reduced Federal and Provin-
cial budget surpluses. Excess liquidity from FY83 (generated largely by
foreign exchange inflows), increases in world prices and reduced agricultural
output, contributed to inflation above 9%, as against 5.2Z in FY83.
Budgetary policies continued to be prudent. Current revenues increased by
20-, largely through improved tax administration, but current expenditur^s
also increased reflecting higher allocations for economic and social serv-
ices. Considering the economic importance of agriculture, the achievement of
creditable growth in FY84 points to a considerable resilience of Pakistan's
underlying economic structure, which is partly the result of recent Govern-
ment efforts to begin removing structural imbaLances in the economy.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY84, relative to the marked
improvement in FY83. The current account deficit at US$1 billion was almost
double that in FY33. Stagnant exports and lower remittances were the main
contributing factors. With cotton and yarn exports much reduced by the poor
cotton crop, exports rose by only 1.6%, while imports increased by 6.9%.
Remittances, which declined for the first time in FY84, fell by 5.1%.
Moreover, recent projections suggest a decline in net migration, which is
Likely to lead to lower remittances over the medium term. The higher current
deficit, together with lower net capital flows, led to a reserve drawdown of
US$113 million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were
US$2.4 billion at end FY84, equivalent to 3.8 months of imports of goods and
services.



-2-
5.      Since 1980, the Government has moved gradually to eliminate interest
from the economy and has announced that the process will be completed by July
1985. All transactions will be based on new financing modes consistent with
Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commitments will be honored and
transactions with foreign governments and financial institutions will not be
affected. At this stage, it is difficult to determine with any certainty
the potential costs of Islamization. Undoubtedly, there will be some costs
in converting the system, but whether long-run efficiency is affected will
depend on how the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded
cautiously and, while fully committed to the elimination of interest, has
stressed that new financing modes will be applied flexibly and developments
monitored closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from the
improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83). Growth
in national output (6.5%), agriculture (4.2%), manufacturing (10.42), exports
(11%) and private investment (6.7Z), though beLow Plan targets, was well
above rates achieved during FY70-78 and very respectable compared to other
LDCs. Growth during this period - coupled with increased remittances -
benefited large segments of the population. Improved performance took place,
despite a number of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline
in the external terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis
with its attendant requirements for increased defense and refugee assistance
expenditures.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank bor-
rowing, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in FY79, fell to 6.4% and 1.7%,
respectively by FY83. Reduced levels of Government borrowing from banks,
together with overall credit restraint, led to lower money supply growth and
lessened inflationary pressures; inflation dropped from 8Z to 5% by the end
of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance was largely the result
of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real expan-
sion in current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept pace
with population growth and development expenditures declined relative to GDP.
Government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong export
growth, the current account deficit tell from 5% of GNP to 2% by the end of
the Plan period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of imports
of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measure- to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency. Sub-
sidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices were
raised eo reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were adjusted
to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for operations
and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water charges.



-3-
Encouraged by improved poLicies and incentives, private manufacturing invest-
ment grew by 10.9% p.a. Areas open to the private sector were widened, most
agricultural processing units were denatioralized and sanctioning limits
increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental
in encouraging manufactured exports, while import Liberalization increased
the availability of raw materials and capital goods. In energy, measures
were taken to accelerate the development of domestic resources, rationalize
prices, and improve policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems which are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address structural issues are necessary. Two issues
are critical to Pakistan's long-term growth prospects: (a) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. To sustain
high economic growth, Pakistan is faced with the urgent need to make major
infrastructure investments, upgrade existing facilities and strengthen its
neglected social base. The latter has fared badly as a result of resource
constraints and is reflected in Pakistan's social indicators which lag
seriously behind these of other LDCs at comparable levels of development.
Increases in public investment and recurrent alLocations will not be possible
without a major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although reform of
indirect taxation through the introduction of a broad-based sales tax should
receive priority, greater reliance on user changes, curtailment of subsidies
and increased self-financing by public enterprises will also be required.
Civen the more constrained outlook for official assistance and the likelihood
of lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both export expansion
and efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth
with sustainable external capital requirements. Improved trade performance
will require a continuation and strengthening of the structural adjustment
process in the key sectors of agriculture, industry and energy. Both
agriculture and industry have considerable potential for increased exports
and some degree of efficient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated
development of Pakistan's underexploited resources can make a major contribu-
tion to the reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been Largely the result of increased
acreage; average yields remain low by world standards and those of progres-
sive farmers within Pakistan. Increasing agricultural productivity and
diversification will require strengthened institutional support, appropriate
pricing policies, and the identification and implementation of the core
investment program. More effective institutional support should be sought
through improvements in the quality and quantity of services to farmers. In
particular, strengthening the seed program requires more efficient seed
multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector
plants and a greater role for the private sector. The delivery of agricul-
tural credit needs to be improved to ensure it actually reaches small farmers
and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Marketing costs need to be
reduced together with a strengthening of research and extension services.
Agricultural pricing policies should ensure appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multi-crop approaches to pricing should



-4-
complement the single crop, cost-of-production approach currently used.
Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is needed to
reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities. Programs
that are low-cost and yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructural investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water would ensure that priority is accorded to programs that
increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the supply of
physical infrastructure.
11.     Increasing and diversifying Pakistan's manufactured export base and
encouraging efficient import substitution will depend, to a large extent, on
a rationalization of industrial incentives to reduce both the level and
dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective should be to
increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposing protected
producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the antiexport bias
inherent in the present incentives system. In addition, reform of Government
regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing is also
required. The Government should limit sanctioning to a few cases of
strategic importance, leaving most investment decisions to the private sec-
tor, which is better able to assess investment opportunities. Cost-plus
pricing arrangements, which provide insufficient incentives to minimize costs
or alLocate capital efficiently, should be replaced by market-oriented
approaches which better reflect supply/demand conditions and provide adequate
incentives for reinvestment and operational efficiency.
12.     In the energy sector issues need to be addressed in three broad
areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; and (c) institutional
strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation program, as well
as other investments in the sector, have not been based on a long-term
least-cost development plan. Given the likelihood of domestic resource
constraints and persistent power shortages, the Government should ensure that
future investments conform to such a plan and that a core investment program
is insulated from uncertainties inherent in the budgeting process. The
present gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries should be adjusted
to provide adequate incentives to attract private sector exploration. Con-
sumer gas prices, which were maintained artificially low to encourage the
substitution of gas for imported oil, have resuLted in a considerable distor-
tion of relative prices and uneconomic use of gas. The Government's policy
is to increase gas prices to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88 and
since 1982, price increases have averaged 15% p.a. in dollar terms. The
Government needs to meet its FY88 objective and move to full parity as soon
thereafter as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below
long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to
ensure efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but
also to mobilize additional funds to meet the substantial resources required
by the power investment program. Finally, the Government should consider
increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in the energy sector to improve
their efficiency and should continue efforts'to strengthen energy planning
and policy coordination.



-5-
13.     The Six:h Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulated a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development which incladed an expanded role
for the private secLor, increased public development expenditures and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
because of insufficient domestic resource mobilization, development expendi-
tures during the first two years of the Plan will be 9Z lower than the
amounts projected. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in
which sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health and agriculture. received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a predefined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; too many projects are
initiated and projects that should receive priority are underfunded. In
order to address this issue, the Government has announced the reintroduction
of a Three-Year Priority Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has
emphasized that the adoption of a rolling medium-term program does not mean
plan strategies and priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are
considered inevitable. The Program will identify sectoral core investment
programs which will be given priority in formulating annual plans. By
protecting priority investments, especially in key areas, the effectiveness
of the public investment program would be enhanced and priorities sharpened.
14.     Despite the temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance and
policy framework set in motion during the Fifth Plan, which the Government
intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's credit-
worthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commercial borrowing.
At the end of calendar year 1983, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding
the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$2 billion to multilateraL agencies, and the balance, to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1983, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 15.3% and in external debt service was 7.0%.
Bank projections indicate that, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained and structural issues addressed. Pakistan's debt service would
remain below 15% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher
levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN 1/
15.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$3.2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in most sectors
of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors, over a
20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water resources
l/ Part II is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
P3940-PAK (Fourth WAPDA Power Project), dated February 13, 1985.



-6-
of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total Bank/IDA conmitments to
Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation; 28% for industry, includ-
ing import program credits; 18% for transport, telecommunications and public
utility services; 14% for energy, including power, gas pipelines and
petroleum; 5% for social programs in education, population and urban develop-
ment; and 5% for structural adjustment lending and technical assistance.
16.     In the current period, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support
the Government's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms in three
sectors--energy, industry, agriculture-which shape the structural adjustment
process in Lhe economy. At the same time and in order to ensure that the
gains from adjustment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly,
the strategy also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the
social sectors (education, population, etc.) which have been neglected in
Pakistan's development efforts. To succeed, this strategy requires a
flexibLe deployment of the full range of traditional instruments of Bank
support - sector work and active policy diaLogue, policy and project-based
Lending, technical assistance and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending
program has two components. The larger project-based component supports
specific high priority investments in productive sectors and physical and
social infrastructure. The smaller but strategic component focuses on policy
reforms in the key secturs of agricuLture, industry and energy, relying
heavily on high quality economic and sector work. The strategy includes a
series of technical assistance credits to finance studies and formulate
action programs for policy reform. The experience with the first of these
has been extremely positive. Through the annual Country Economic Memorandum,
we aim to foster a greater understanding among Consortium members of the
Governmentts structural adjustment program and aid requirements which,
coupled with increased co-financing, should enhance the policy relevance and
eLfectiveness of other official aid and help attract additional resources to
Pakistan from nonconcessional sources.
17.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture which is the mainstay of the Pakistan econoiy. The Bank and
the Government are in agreement on the main elements of a strategy which
underpins lending in the sector. In recent years, the objective has leen to
increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficien- of
the irrigation system and supporting agriculturaL services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and
longer-term expenditures, rationalization of input and output prices, market-
ing, improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery, and a wider
role for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged from irriga-
tion/drainage to agricultural inputs, research and extension and have
included institution building components. OveraLl, progress in agriculture
has been satisfactory.
18.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the process of structural adjustment in Pakistan's
industrial sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the
private sector through the provision of industrial finance. The industrial
reform program is designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector in
order to promote export expansion and efficient import substitution. Issues



-7-
being addressed include trade and industrial incentives; deregulation;
efficiency of public enterprises; pricing decontrol; and improvements in the
credit delivery system. Projects have included lines of credits to DFCs and
other financial intermediaries which has been mainly for the private sector,
totaling US$488.5 million. Direct lending for industry has also included
assistance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan.
As of September 30, 1984, IFC has made investments in 15 Pakistan enterprises
totaling US$174.21 million of which US$163.24 million was by way of loans and
US$10.97 million by equity participation (these are shown in Annex II).
While individual operations have generally achieved their objectives, the
agenda for overall reform in industry remains formidable.
19.     Following progress on a number of major sector issues as a result
of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) process in 1981/82, our lending
program in cneg  is expanding rapidly.  The overall objective is to expand
domestic-supply from all energy subsectors, while simultaneously increasing
the e'ficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation and
other demand management measures. No less central have been efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power the Bank has assisted
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) in both power generation and transmission; the
sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin
Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In oil and gas, the Bank
has financed operations which support a sound expLoration and development
program and has assisted in the development of the extensive gas transmission
system. Smaller operations, mostly of an engineering and technical assis-
tance nature, have supported coal exploration, energy audits and oil refin-
i_g. Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to continue its
participation in institution building in concert with efforts to assist the
Government to mobilize adequate funds for energy investments through tariffs,
co-financing, and greater private sector participation.
20.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assets. Operations have also focused on strengthening the institutions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highways agencies. However, recent analysis has identified transport
infrastructure as a critical constraint to overall growth due, in large
measure, to a running down of infrastructure stock. In the future, the
balance between new investments and operation and maintenance and among
various modes will need to receive greater attention.
21.     With an overall literacy rate of only 252, a population growth rate
of about 3%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces a formidable development
agenda in the social sectors.  The Bank has supported the Government's
program in education through five credits totaling some US$62.5 million
designed to upgrade primary, postsecondary and higher technical and agricul-
tural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural
extension agents. The focus has and will continue to be on the lower end of
the education system (primary, secondary, technical and nonformal education,
including literacy). A first population project designed to expand demand



-8-
for population control services was approved in FY83. In the urban and water
supply sector, the Bank has financed four projects. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are addressing, among other issues, improved local
resource mobilization and cost recovery; improved planning and efficiency of
resource utilization; and urban management, especially at the ProvinciaL and
Municipal levels.
22.     'Jith respect to policy-based lending, a SAL operation was approved
in June 1982. The SAL program consisted of a number of significant reforms
in Government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors. The loan was fully disbursed at
the end of FY83 and achieved significant progress in the above areas. In
tne next few years, continuing support to the structural adjustment process
is envisioned under sector loans.
23.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1984. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to
protracted Government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid
turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part dueL to migration to the
Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been probLems in the case of some
projects.
24.     A number of operations are currently under preparation or are being
appraised. These incLude projects for power transmission and generation;
oil and gas exploration and development; coal development; lines of credit
for industrial finance for the private sector; industrial subsector restruc-
turing, balancing and modernization; irrigation/drainage, agricultural inputs
and services; primary and informal education; urban development and water
supply. In addition to the proposed loan, two sector loans which would
support further structural adjustment in industry and agriculture are also
being discussed with the Government. Where successfuL, these sector loans
would provide a policy umbrella for projects in those sectors. To assist
the Government to finance agricultural and other high priority projects which
have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures
in.specific cases is justified.
25.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing a dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakis-
tan on development strategy, the sector loans now being prepared, and for the
coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The work
program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the three
key sectors, and physical and social infrastructure.



-9-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Setting of the Sector
26.     The development of Pakistan's resource potential in the energy sector
and measures to limit the growth of energy demand will be critical for sus-
taining high economic growth over the long run. Pakistan's commercially
exploitable domestic energy resources consist, in order of importance, of
hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal.  In addition, the country has a sub-
stantial nonconventional energy resource base, consisting mainly of fuelwood,
agricultural and animal waste, and solar and wind energy. By and large,
these resources have remained underutilized and their development has
progressed at a substantially slower pace than is warranted by the size of
reserves because of inappropriate policies and resource constraints. As
policies to contain consumption of energy were inadequate, the country's
dependence on imported energy increased, which, together with increases in
oil prices since 1973, contributed to the rapid growth of imports and exter-
nal payments deficits. The import bill for oil increased from US$63 million,
amounting to 8Z of total imports in FY73, to US$1,496 million representing
23% of total imports in FY84. In order to buffer the consumers from the
higher cost of imported energy, the Government encouraged the increased use
of domestic energy products such as natural gas and electricity by maintain-
ing the price of these products at levels substantially below their economic
cost of supply. As a result, by FY78, when the Fifth Five-Year Plan was
promulgated, the economy was experiencing severe resource constraints and
rapid growth in energy consumption.
27.     In order to address these shortcomings, the Fifth Plan (FY78-83)
emphasized the accelerated development of domestic energy resources and
rationalization of energy prices. However, the shortages of local and for-
eign resources, as well as the unanticipated increases in outlays for ongoing
projects impeded the achievement of the supply targets for all energy
products except natural gas for whicn over 99% of the output target was
realized. The largest shortfall was in the power subsector where, between
FY78 and FY83, only 60% of the forecast generating capacity was commissioned
and 85Z of the primary and 53Z of the secondary transmission lines were
energized.  The shortfall was no less pronooaced in tie petroleum subsector,
where only 36% of the output target for oil was achieved. These shortages,
together with the rapid growth of consumption, precipitated by the delayed
and incomplete adjustment to higher world energy prices, resulted in acute
shortages of natural gas and electricity during the last two years of the
Fifth Plan period. This, in turn, raised the demand for liquid hydrocarbons
and further increased the country's dependence on imported energy. The
adjustments in the prices of petroleum products were initiated in 1978, five
years after the first round of increases in the international price of oil,
and by FY83 the weighted average price was about 1502 of the border price.
By contrast, prices of gas and electricity were not increased until 1980 and
even then at a substantially slower pace than for petroleum proJucts. As of
FY83, the price of natural gas was about 39Z of the border price of fuel oil
and electricity was about 63% (WAPDA) and 98% (KESC) of the average long-run
marginal cost for the combined system.



-10-
28.     Severe shortages of natural gas and electricity, and the resultant
increases in imports of liquid hydrocarbons ushered the economy into the
Sixth Plan. The industrial and household sectors were particularly affected
by these shortages, which are increasingly becoming a major impediment to
maintaining the economy's growth momentum. In recognition of the possible
adverse impact of increased dependence on imported energy and of continuing
shortfalls in energy supply, the Government accorded high priority to
restructuring the energy sector during the Sixth Plan. The objectives of the
Sixth Plan are to: (a) accelerate the development of domestic energy resour-
ces to reduce the country's dependence on imported oil; (b) promote the
efficient and rational use of energy to meet the future demand at least-cost
to the economy; (c) adjust energy prices to reflect their economic costs;
(d) streamline the organizations and institutions in the sector to promote
their efficient operation and management; and (e) develop mechanisms for
increasing private sector participation. The Sixth Plan allocated Rs 116.5
billion (US$8.6 billion) to public sector energy programs, representing an
increase of about 120% in real terms over the Fifth Plan and amounting to 38%
of total public sector outlays.
29.     In addition to increasing the allocation for the energy sector, the
Government has taken several important policy initiatives to promote the
achievement of Sixth Plan objectives. These initiatives, which are discussed
in detail below, have addressed some of the constraints that impeded the
achievement of the Fifth Plan targets and underscore the Government's commit-
ment to restructuring the energy sector.  Despite these efforts, the Sixth
Plan's supply targets are not likely to materialize fully, particularly for
electricity, domestically refined petroleum products and natural gas. The
shortfall in the supply of elecrricity stems primarily from the Government's
inability to mobilize domestic and foreign financial resources which induced
it to scale down subst.ntially the investment program for the power subsec-
tor, where actual expend:tures during the first two years of the Plan period
are expected to be only 60Z of the original targets. The shortfall in supply
of domestically refined petroleum products is due to the Government's deci-
sion to delay the implementation of projects called for under the Sixth Plan.
This decision was prompted by the uncertairty regarding the economic and
technical viability of these projects in meeting the future demand at least
cost. As for natural gas, strict rationing is expected to continue,
primarily because the Government's pricing policies have failed to induce the
private sector to accelerate exploration and development and contain growth
of demand.
B. Strategy for the Development of the Energy Sector
30.     The setbacks experienced in the implementation of the investment
program for the energy sector during the first two years of the Sixth Plan
and the high likelihood that existing resource constraints will continue into
the immediate future have prompted the Government to implement a comprehen-
sive development strategy to address the issues impeding the development of
the major sectors of the economy. The energy sector strategy for the
proposed loan, which is outlined in the Letter of Development presented in
Annex IV, involves a two-pronged approach. The first focuses on minimizing



-11-
the shortfalls in energy during the remaining three years (FY86-88) of the
current Plan period and on ensuring that the slippages in investment that are
expected to occur do not become a major impediment to the implemeiztation of
the Seventh Plan. Hence, it concentrates on the implementation of: (a) a
core program of high priority projects; and (b) policy actions and institu-
tional reforms needed to mobilize sufficient revenues for executing these
projects, restrain the growth of demand for energy and enhance planning and
project implementation capabilities in the sector. The second calls for
studies that would provide the inputs needed to promote the integrated
development of the sector over the Seventh and Eighth Plans. The Govern-
ment's development strategy for the energy sector is described in detail
below and summarized in Annex V under the following three headings: invest-
ment and development; pricing and demand management; and institutional
development.
C. Investment and Development
Euergy Investments
31.     Core Investment Program:  Pakistan's investment plans for the
development of primary and secondary energy have been progressing in a
piecemeal fashion, dictated primarily by the availability of financial
resources. Moreover, the planned cargets have been ambitious relative to
the availability of financial resources. This divergence between actual and
planned investment has not only precluded the achievement of the supply
targets, but has also resulted in the distribution of limited resources among
low and high priority projects. Pakistan's energy plans also suffered from
the absence of a core investment program which would receive priority in the
allocation of resources and from insufficient attention being given to the
interdependence of projects and the subsectoral interlinkages (coal, elec-
tricity, etc.). The core investment program for energy, which was formulated
by the Pakistan Energy Working Group with assistance from the Bank, was
adopted to address these shortcomings.
32.     The Government's core investment program covers the remaining three
years (FY86-88) of the Sixth Plan and includes ongoing and new projects as
well as the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing facilities whose
economic operation is critical to the achievement of the revised targets.
The core investment plan takes as its point of departure a demand projection
for energy, disaggregated by product, for the period 1985-1993. It was
derived on the basis of a detaiLed review of the developments in the energy
sector and in the major energy consuming sectors of the economy. The
projects included in the core investment plan were matched with the forecast
demand for energy. The projects were then ranked on the basis of their
expected rates of return and selected in a descending order to ensure that,
when aggregated within and across sectors, they would meet this demand at
least cost to the economy. The financial requirements in terms of foreign
exchange and local costs were ascertained for each project in each subsector
on an annual basis. This provided the total investment required in the
energy sector for FYs 86, 87 and 88. The financial projections of each
implementing agency as well as the projecced annual allocations by the
Government were reviewed to assess the adequacy of the financial resources



-12-
for the implementation of the proposed projects. The investment requirements
were then matched through an iterative process with the sources of financing.
This culminated in the core investment program which is achievable in terms
of both implementation capability and availabiLity of financial resources.
33.     The core investment program encompasses high priority projects to be
completed or initiated during the next three years (FY86-88) by OCDC, WAPDA,
KESC, Pakistan State Oil (PSO), Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Ltd. (SNGPL),
Karachi Gas Company (KGC) and Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
(PMDC). It also includes the services of consultants for energy audits and
feasibility studies as well as instrumentation purchases for energy conserva-
tion. The financial requirements of the core investment program amount to
about Rs 50 billion (US$3.2 billion) to be allocated over the next three
years as follows: Rs 16.0 biLlion (US$1.0 billion) for FY86; Rs 16.0 billion
(US$1.0 billion) for FY87 and Rs 18.0 billion (US$1.2 billion) for FY88. Of
the financial resources earmarked for the core investment program, Rs 36.5
billion (US$2.3 billion) would be absorbed by the power subsector; Rs 13
billion (US$0.8 billion) by the petroleum subsector; Rs 0.4 billion
(US$24 million) by the coal subsector; and Rs 0.2 billion (US$17 million) by
energy planning and conservation activities.  The details relating to the
core investment program for each entity are presented in Annex VI.  The scope
of the programs to be implemented by OGDC and WAPDA, which are expected to
absorb about 78% of the core investment program outlays, is described below.
34.     OGDC's core investment program consists of three main elements:  the
first covers the appraisal and development of fields to be undertaken by the
Corporation using its own internally-generated funds and Government alloca-
tions; the second covers exploration and development activities to be under-
taken under existing joint ventures; and the third involves new joint ven-
tures in prospective areas for which further efforts would be made by Govern-
ment to mobilize private sector participation. OGDC would concentrate its
efforts on the following: the development of oil and gas fields at Toot,
Pirkoh, Dakhni and Tando Alam, smaller investment projects such as Rhodo and
Sari/Hundi in strongly gas-prone areas, and a modest-sized exploration
program which gives priority to potentially high-yielding prospects in the
vicinity of the Tando Alam discovery and important gas prospects such as
Loti. The joint venture components of the core investment program are
designed with a view to supplementing OGDC's technicaL capabilities and
mobilizing resources for exploration and development. The component of the
core investment program covering the existing joint ventures would involve
OGDC's non-operating interest as minority partner in Badin and North Potwar,
with financing provided by the Corporation and the Bank under the proposed
Petroleum Resources Joint Venture Project to cover OGDC's foreign exchange
share. The component covering the new joint ventures are yet to be firmed
up; however, resources have been earmarked under the proposed Petroleum
Resources Joint Venture Project to finance OGDC's share of any prospective
agreemeun.s. The implementation of this core investment program would fully
absorb the Corporation's technical, managerial and financial resources. The
program i's viewed as the most effective strategy for enhancing OGDC's perfor-
mance and for minimizing the risk to public resources.



-13-
35.     WAPDA's core investment program for generation incLudes essentially:
the extension at TarbeLa, with completion of units 9 and 10 (2x175 MW) and
initiation of units 11 to 14 (4x406 KW); the completion of a steam unit (210
MW) and a combined cycLe group (450 MW) at Guddu; the compLetion of a combus-
tion turbine station (4x100 MW) at Kot Adu; the completion of a first
fuel-fired unit (250 MW) at Jamshoro and the initiation of a second unit (210
MW); the initiaticn of a fuel-fired station at Multan (3x210 MW) and of the
Lakhra coal-fired station (300 MW). For power transmission, it includes the
completion of the first 500-kV scheme Tarbela-Faisalabad- Jamshoro and the
initiation of a second 500-kV scheme Tarbela-Lahore- Jamshoro. The 220-kV
network and subtransmission systems will also be expanded to ensure their
integrated and coordinated development with the 500-kV grid.  The distribu-
tion system will be reinforced and expanded in order to add about one milLion
consumers. The only major investment not included in the core program is the
Kalabagh generation project, for which, because of its size, special finan-
cial arrangements will be required. However, its exclusion is consistent
with the methodology of formulating the core program, because the project
would not, in any event, come onstream during the period for which demand is
projected.
36.     To finance the core investment program, the Government would con-
tribute Rs 10.5 billion (US$0.7 billion) from the Annual Development Plan and
the contribution of the entities from their internally-generated funds would
amount to Rs 14.7 billion (US$0.9 billion). The remaining Rs 24.6 billion
(US$1.6 billion) would be in the form of loans, grants and suppliers'
credits. The sources of financing for the core investment program are
presented in Annex VII. In order to ensure that resources are made available
for the timely implementation of the high priority projects included in the
core investment program, the Government has agreed under the proposed loan to
review with the Bank in detail the performance of the program in the preced-
ing year and the sources for financing it in the next year on an annual
basis, beginning April 1986 (Schedule 4, paragraph (b) of the draft Loar.
Agreement).
Energy Development
37.     Hydropower:  Hydropower is Pakistan's most important source of energy
with the potential estimated at about 30,000 MW.  Of this, only 2,897 MS has
been developed and 1,928 MW are under consideration/construction. Another
3,600 MW will be added when the site at Kalabagh is fully developed.
Detailed engineering has been completed and preparations are underway for
initiating the implementation of this scheme during the Seventh Plan
(FY89-93). The Government has also completed a study for ranking hydropower
sites on the Indus River whose potential is greater than 200 MW. Of these
sites, Basha and Dasu, whose potential is estimated at about 2,500 MW and
2,700 MW respectively, are ranked first and second, after KaLabagh, for
development. The Government's long-term plans call for developing the sites
at Kalabagh, Basha and Dasu by the year 2020. Detailed cost estimates are
required for integrating the development of these sites with the program for
thermal generation and determining the optimal timing for their implementa-
tion and commissioning. So far, cost data are only available for Kalabagh
and only a feasibility study has been completed, with the assistance of



-14-
consultants financed by CIDA, for Basha. Therefore, in order to ensure that
the hydrosites following Kalabagh are exploited and commissioned at the
optimal time, minimal cost, and in full integration with thermal generation,
the Government has agreed under the proposed Loan to recruit consultants by
December 31, 1986 to initiate the preparation of detailed site investigation,
engineering and cost estimates for Basha (Schedule 5, paragraph 1 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The Government would also initiate in due course
similar work for Dasu.
38.     Hydrocarbons:  Natural gas is Pakistan's main commercially exploited
hydrocarbon resource. Its knLown reserves are estimated at about 340 million
toe, consisting of 271 million toe of proven reserves and 69 million toe of
probable reserves. Proven reserves of oil, by contrast, are modest,
estimated at about 13 million tons. In addition to the proven reserves,
probable oil reserves at known fields are estimated at 3 million tons and
possible reserves at about 6 million tons.
39.     In recognition of the prospects for increasing the domestic output
of hydrocarbons, particularly gas, the Government has actively promoted the
involvement of public and private sector enterprises in exploration and
development of oil and gas over the past two years. As a result, exploration
and development have accelerated. In 1984, a record number (46) of
exploratory and development wells were spudded or drilled and four new oil
and two new gas fields were discovered. Although there was a significant
improvement in the drilling performance of the Oil and Gas Development Cor-
poration (OGDC) in 1984 compared to the Fifth Plan, it was unable to achieve
the targets set in the Sixth Plan, due to resource and implementation con-
straints. Seismic surveys in the offshore areas, undertaken with the assis-
tance of Norway, have identified four promising structures for drilling and
further evaluation. The Government has finalized negotiations for offshore
drilling of oil-bearing structures located in the Tndus basin. Agreement has
also been concluded with the private sector on producer prices for gas from
existing fields at Mari and Sui, which has resulted in satisfactory progress
being made in the development of this resource.
40.     Despite this progress, the exploration and development program needs
to be expanded to minimize the anticipated shortfalls in gas supply and
achieve the Government's objectives of reducing Pakistan's dependence on
imported energy. This requires a national policy aimed at increasing the
level of foreign and local private equity investment and balancing the invol-
vement of the public and private sector in expLoration and development. Such
a policy requires the delineation of the scope of exploration and development
program to be undertaken by OGDC over the next three years (FY86-88). This,
in turn, makes possible a parallel delineation of the need for, and the
approach to be followed in attracting private sector participants, both
foreign and local. The Government has identified a core investment program
for OGDC which focuses its activities on high priority projects
(paragraph 34). The core investment program includes OGDC-implemented
projects and exploration and development invesements for which further
efforts would be made to mobilize private sector management and capital to
supplement OGDC's efforts. The Government intends to continue its efforts to
attract private exploration investirent in open areas and consider "farm-ins"



-15-
to OGDC acreage on appropriate terms. In particular, the Government plans to
undertake new efforts to seek joint venture partners, especially in areas
where gas discoveries have already been made, once the new gas producer price
formula is announced (paragraph 47).
41.     Coal:  Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at about 835 million
tons, of which only 107 million tons are proven. Of the total reserves,
about 80Z are held by the private sector and the remaining 201, amounting to
165 million tons, are held by Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
(PMDC), a Government-owned entity. The size of the proven reserves in the
private and public sectors is believed to be substantially lower than the
country's potential; however, as yet, very little is known of the geology of
coal in Pakistan.
42.     The Government has decided to undertake a systematic program for the
formulation of a comprehensive coal expLoration strategy. The Geological
Survey of Pakistan (GSP), and the US Geological Survey have signed an agree-
ment to undertake joint work, under USAID financing, to identify priorities
for exploration drilling and geophysical analyses. The first phase of this
work involves the assessment of the reserves at Lakhra and Sonda-Thatta in
1985 and 1986 and the Salt range and Makerwal reserves in 1987 and 1988.
This work would identify the concessions, private and public, where further
exploration is justified. In addition, WAPDA is currently implementing a
program, under World Bank financing (1355-PAK), aimed at firming up the
extent of the reserves at Dukki in Baluchistan and to eventually prepare a
feasibility study for mining the coaL for power generation. The Government
is also assessing, under USAID financing, the potential for stimulating
increased private sector investment in coal production using the work on
Lakhra as a model. Should the results prove favorable, the same model could
be applied to other promising reserves. In addition, the Government has
agreed under the proposed loan to initiate a two-phase program to promote
the accelerated development of coal. The first phase would involve a highly
focused study to be completed by September 30, 1986, to identify the main
operational constraints being experienced and outline a plan of action for
addressing them. The second phase would involve the implementation of the
plan of action which will be initiated by December 31, 1986 (Schedule 5,
paragraph 6(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.     Long-Term Development Plan for the Power Subsector:  The power sub-
sector accounts for almost two-thirds of the overall investment in energy and
one-fifth of the public investment. Despite its size and relative impor-
tance, the development of the power subsector has not been dictated by a
least cost program which identifies priority projects and the scale and
timing of investments to ensure that resources are earmarked for their
implementation. This, together with the Government's inability to mobilize
resources, resulted in the commissioning of only 60% of the forecast gener-
ating capacity, 85% of the primary transmission lines and 53% of the secon-
dary transmission lines during the Fifth Plan. For essentiall*y these same
reasons, the targets of the Sixth Plan for the power subsector' al'so are not
likely to materialize fully. In fact, as was noted (paragraph 29), actual
expenditures in the power subsector during the first two years of the current



-16-
Plan period are expected to be only 60% of the original targets. The short-
falls in implementing the investment program for the power subsector and the
supply constraints ensuing therefrom have also prompted the Government to
assign higher priority to increasing the country's generating capacity than
to the reinforcement and rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution
network. This, in turn, has kept the losses at the transmission and dis-
tribution networks inordinately high compared to other system with a similar
configuration, theteby necessitating further load-shedding. In recognition
of the possible adverse impact of excessive load-shedding, the Government has
decided to improve the efficiency of and rationalize investments in the power
subsector. In order to improve the efficiency of the system, the Government
is currently being assisted by USAID in reducing the losses in the distribu-
tion network (paragraph 51) and by the Bank in expanding and reinforcing the
transmission network. As for rationalizing investments, an interim least
cost plan was formulated jointly by WAPDA and Argonne Laboratory (USA), under
UNDP financing with the Bank as the executing agency, for the period
1985-2005. It provides the umbrella for the long-term development of the
power subsector. A subset of the least cost plan, covering the period
1985-1993, was identified. The front-end of this plan provides a list of
ongoing and new generation, transmission and distribution projects that are
to be initiated or completed by WAPDA between 1985 and 1993. These con-
stitute the core investment program for WAPDA (paragraph 35). In order to
reaffirm its commitment to rationalizing investments in the power subsector,
the Government intends to finalize the interim least cost plan for which
extensive information on the operation of the power subsector, hydrology and
pattern of electricity consumption is currently being prepared. The Govern-
ment has decided to use these data and complete the formulation of the
national least cost plan and review its results with the Bank by December 31,
1986.
44.     Long-Term Development Plan for the Petroleum Products Subsector:
Constraints in the supply and delivery of petroleum products are becoming a
major impediment to the deveLopment of the energy sector. Inadequate port
handling facilities for the delivery of oil and petroLeum products, shortages
of storage facilities throughout the country, and a serious imbalance between
the production of and demand for petroleum products, particularly up-country,
are expected to become more pronounced, unless major investmetLs are under-
taken to ensure that future demand is met at least cost. The Government has
agreed under the proposed loan to complete by March 31, 1986 a study for the
rationalization of the infrastructure for supply and delivery of petroleum
products (Schedule 5, paragraph 9 of the draft Loan Agreement). The purpose
of the study is to outline a least cost development plan for the petroleum
subsector which takes into account the plans for the increased use of both
domestic and imported coal for power generation; the new mid-country power
plants to come on stream and the prospects for increasing the production of
domestic oil and natural gas.
Pricing and Demand Management
45.     Consumer Gas Prices:  Since the discovery of natural gas in Pakistan
in 1952, its consumption has increased rapidly. By 1981, consumption started
to surpass supply.  As a result, the Government decided to introduce measures



-17-
aimed at restraining the growth of demand and stimulating increased produc-
tion. On the supply side, a new cost-plus formula was adopted to induce
greater participation by the private sector in exploration for gas. On the
demand side, the Government agreed with the Bank under SAL I to the gradual
increase in the domestic price of natural gas to reach two-thirds of the
border price of fuel oil by FY88. Consumer price of gas has increased in
rupee nominal terms by 125% between 1981 and 1984, which brought the average
domestic price of gas in December 1984 to 392 of fuel oil parity. The
Government will continue to increase the price of gas to achieve the FY88
target. Thereafter, the Government has agreed under the proposed Loan to
review with the Bank the general strategy and the measures for inducing
consumers to use this scarce resource more rationaLly and mobilize resources
for the development of the subsector (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
46.     In 1981 the Government commissioned, under Bank financing, a gas
study aimed at outlining a strategy for baLancing the forecast demand and
supply. This study was completed in 1982 and was used to set a framework
for the Gas Development Plan which resulted in increased development includ-
ing four projects that received Bank financing. Significant new gas resour-
ces are now likely to be available from Pirkoh, Dhurnal, the Badin concession
and Dakhni and the results of drilling on the Loti gas prospect will be known
soon. Accordingly, the Government has agreed under the proposed loan to
initiate by no later than December 31, 1985: (a) a study to revise the Gas
Development Plan to determine the optimal supply and utilization pattern for
the next five years; and (b) a study to outline a demand management policy
aimed at improving the efficiency of gas supply and consumption. The results
of these studies would be reviewed with the Bank by December 31, 1986
(Schedule 5, paragraph 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.     Gas Producer Prices:  As stated above, the Government introduced in
1981, a cost-plus formula for setting producer prices aimed at stimulating
the interest of foreign and local firms in accelerating exploration and
development activity in Pakistan. This formula, however, has not eLicited
the response hoped for from international oil companies. As a result, the
Government has outlined a new framework for gas producer prices to stimulate
the interest of the private sector. The key elements of this framework are:
(a) the price paid to the producer for pipeline quality gas will equal 66Z of
the international price of fuel oil at main consumption centers, adjusted for
the transport cost of gas from the field to main consumption centers, less a
percentage discount; (b) the magnitude of the discount is to be negotiated
and agreed in Concession Agreements before commencing exploration. The
discount will vary from area to area and will take into account, among other
things, the geological risk and location of the concession, anticipated
exploration and development costs, oil market conditions and cost of produc-
tion. It is the Government's intention to negotiate discounts with the basic
objective of stimulating accelerated exploration by private investors; and
(c) the new price formula will apply to all non-associated gas from new
concessions signed on or after September 30, 1985. The Government has agreed
under the proposed loan to make an announcement of the new policy by June
1985, and widely publicize it within oil industry circles (Section 3.07 of



-18-
the draft Loan Agreement). The Government intends to keep the operation of
this formula under review.
48.     Electricity Pricing:  WAPDA's resource mobilization through tariffs
has not been as high as planned by the Government. This, together with the
reduction in the budgetary allocation precipitated by resource constraints
experienced over the past few years, resulted in substantial reductions in
the development program of the Authority. To address this shortcoming,
future increases in tariffs would now be directly linked to the three-year
core investment program, set at Rs 30 billion, according to the formula
agreed with the Bank in the loan agreement for the Third WAPDA Power project.
The Government has agreed with the Bank under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project
(P3940-PAK), henceforth to adjust tariffs to ensure that at least 40% of the
investment expenditures called for under the core investment program are
financed from WAPDA's internal sources (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
49.     Coal Pricing:  Coal prices, unlike other energy products, are not
set by the Government but are determined by market forces. However, because
of its size and the institutional structure governing the tendering proce-
dure, PKDC acts as the price setter. As PMDC's costs of production are
generally higher than those of the private sector, this approach results in
higher prices for domestically produced coal. Despite this distortion, the
average ex-mine price of PMDC coal of US$84/toe in Baluchistan, US$74/toe in
Punjab and US$48/toe in Sind compares favorably with the cif price of
US$90/toe for imported coal.
50.     Since the coal produced in Pumjab and Sind, which accounts for about
one-half of the country's annual production, is consumed locally, transport
costs add, on the average, only about US$12/toe to the price paid by the
final consumers. However, the other half, which is produced in Baluchistan,
is consumed largely in Sind and Punjab. The transportation costs for this
coal which, on the average, amount to US$70/toe, add substantially to the
price paid by the consumer. These inordinately high transportation costs
are attributable to the bottlenecks in the rail transport system which neces-
sitates transporting coal from Baluchistan by trucks to Punjab and Sind. In
recognition of the fact that the economic value of the fuel used by the
trucks far exceeds that of the coal they carry, the Government has decided to
address the structural imbalance between the sources of supply and location
of final consumers. As a first step, the Government has initiated a
prefeasibility study for the expansion of the infrastructure for coal han-
dling around Karachi, aimed at meeting the demand fcr coal in Punjab and
Sind. When implemented, this development would allow for the importation of
coaL for these two provinces which would be more economic than the coal from
Baluchistan. In addition, in order to create an expanded market for imported
coaL, the Government has agreed under the proposed loan to allow its use for
power generation in the Karachi area (Schedule 5, paragraph 3 of the draft
Loan Agreement). A prefeasibility study is already underway for a power
generating complex around Karachi. As for Baluchistan, a program is cur-
rently underway to firm up the reserves at Dukki (paragraph 42) which could
set the stage for expanding the local coal market by leading to the estab-
lishment of mine-mouth power plants. In addition, in order to improve the
F



-19-
efficiency of PHDC, and in turn, reduce its cost of production, the Govern-
ment has agreed under the proposed loan to complete by November 30, 1986 a
study that would: (a) outline a strategy for corporate restructuring and
technical improvements to promote the more efficient operation of mines in
the public sector; and (b) provide a basis for reviewing the role of the
public sector in coal mining (Schedule 5, paragraph 6(b) of the draft roan
Agreement). In the incerim, through its ongoing work in the encrgy sector
the Bank will continue to monitor the performance of PMDC as well as domestic
coal prices relative to the costs of imported coal.
51.     Demand Management:  In keeping with the objective of the Sixth Plan,
the Government has already taken several important initiatives to rationalize
energy consumption including: (a) steps to enhance the energy efficiency of
the NRL refinery, a major energy consumer; (b) a survey of energy consumption
in public sector industries to be followed in 1986-87 with some 20 energy
audits and assessments in the cement, steel, fertilizer, chemical, and other
industries in the public sector which are designed to define the potential
for energy conservation, leading to investments resulting in substantial
reductions in industrial energy consumption; (c) studies designed to reduce
losses in the power transmission and distribution networks; (d) the iden-
tification of thermal power plants whose efficiency could be improved through
rehabilitation and retrofitting; (e) the formulation of a least-cost develop-
ment plan for the power subsector that would set priorities for investments
in generation, and ensure the optimal use of primary energy resources;
(f) upward adjustments in the consumer price of gas; and (g) the release of
gas from cement industries and the power subsector for higher value uses.
The Bank has supported the Government's policy initiatives through SAL I
(2166-PAK), the Fourth WAPDA Power Project, a Refinery Engineering Project
(2218-PAK), a project for Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation (2172-PAK) and
Technical Assistance. UNDP, with the Bank as the executing agency, is
financing the formulation of the least cost plan for power. USAID is assist-
ing the Government in implementing its program for reducing losses in the
power subsector at the distribution level (paragraph 43). UNIDO is currently
funding a program of audits of a number of smaller textile, metal-working and
other plants. Although important, these initiatives are but a first step in
the formulation of a comprehensive strategy for rationalizing the consumption
of energy. If the objective of energy conservation is to be achieved, a more
integrated and comprehensive strategy is needed. Toward that end, the
Government has agreed under the proposed loan to establish by December 31,
1985, mainly with the assistance of USAID, an Energy Conservation Center
(ENERCON) in the Ministry of Planning (Schedule 5, paragraph 8 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Institutional Development
52.     Operational Autonomy:  The two most important agencies in the energy
sector, WAPDA and OGDC, need considerable strengthening and greater fiscal
and managerial autonomy. The possibility of separating distribution of
electricity from WAPDA and assigning WAPDA with the responsibility for gener-
ation and transmission of electricity for the entire country will be
examined. This would include looking into the possibility of taking over the
generation and the primary transmission of KESC by WAPDA and restricting the



-20-
KESC operation to bulk purchase from WAPDA and distribution in the Karachi
area. Additionally, the possibility of handing over distribution to private
sector/provinces in the rest of the country would be considered along with
the possibility of creating a separate authority for power distribution. In
order to assist WAPDA in formulating a plan for the reorganization of its
distribution department, consultants have been recruited under USAID financ-
ing. The Government has agreed under the proposed loan to review with the
Bank the means and the timetable for reorganizing the power subsector by June
30, 1986 (Schedule 5, paragraph 7(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.     The Sixth Plan envisages an expanded role for OGDC whose investment
activity is expected to triple as compared to the Fifth Plan. OGDC's finan-
cial position is expected to improve considerably in FY85 as a result of:
(a) the Government's decision to allow OGDC to retain a larger share of its
earnings and the setting of oil and gas prices similar to those available to
the private sector in adjacent areas; and (b) anticipated increases in
production from the Pirkoh gas field and the Tando Alam oil field. Not-
withstanding the improved self-financing outlook for OGDC, the key con-
straints to OCDC's expanded activities will be directly related to its
ability to recruit and retain qualified professional staff and to operate as
a commercial concern. The Government intends to take further steps to
strengthen OGDC's managerial and technical capabilities and to move towards
financial self-reliance. Accordingly, the Government has agreed under the
proposed loan to review with the Bank by June 30, 1986, the measures needed
to move OGDC toward that objective and the timetable for their implementation
(Schedule 5, paragraph 7(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.     Energy Planning:  In recognition of the increasing importance of the
energy sector in sustaining the country's growth momentum, the Government has
decided to strengthen its energy planning capability. Toward that end, an
office of Energy Planning (ENERPLAN) has been established in the Ministry of
Planning and Development under financing from USAID to address substantive
policy issues. It is mandated to coLlect, compile and analyze, on an ongoing
basis, all relevant data on the energy sector and integrate them with the
country's development plans to enable the Government to identify priorities,
evaluate resource requirements, support effective policy formulation and
investment planning. ENERPLAN, which is divided into two groups, one for
developing an energy data system and the other for data analysis, is headed
by a Managing Director who was recently appointed. It will be administered
by an interministerial Energy Policy Board. ENERPLAN will be staffed
entirely by Pakistani personnel who will be assisted during the first four
years by consultants financed by USAID. In order to ensure that ENERPLAN's
activities would provide the input needed for effective policy decision, and
integrated energy sector and macroeconomic planning, the Government has
agreed under the proposed loan to review, on an annual basis, beginning April
30, 1986, its scope of work jointly with the Bank, USAID and ADB (Schedule 5,
paragraph 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.     Energy Conservation:  There is an increasing awareness in Government
circles and, to a lesser extent, in the private sector of the potential
benefits of energy conservation. According to a recent study by USAID con-
sultants, in the industrial sector alone, energy conservation investments of



-21-
about US$330 million could yield annual savings of about US$200 million. As
mentioned (paragraph 51), a number of conservation activities have been
undertaken in the recent past. However, as one would expect in the initial
stages of development of such a program, these efforts are proceeding
piecemeal. To be effective, conservation activities need to be coordinated;
therefore, the establishment of ENERCON will be a critical first step. The
Center will serve as the focal point for all conservation activities and its
main responsibilities will be to formulate comprehensive and integrated
national energy conservation programs covering industry, power, transport,
agriculture, households, and commercial and residential buildings; plan and
initiate energy conservation actions; outline policy guidelines; develop a
data base; support training activities and private research; undertake
development and demonstration, as well as public information activities; and
monitor the implementation of conservation programs of various public and
private entities. ENERCON would also mobilize resources to finance invest-
ments in energy conservation measures such as energy audits, feasibility
sLudies, instrumentation purchases, retrofitting, fuel substitution and
technological changes, and support these with fiscal and other incentives.
InitialLy, the Center would focus on energy audits in the industrial sector
and the power subsector. A detailed action program for ENERCON is currently
being prepared with the assistance of the Bank and USAID. The Center is
expected to formulate a comprehensive national conservation program within
about one year.  Tl. Government has agreed under the proposed loan to review
the activities of ENERCON jointly with the Bank and USAID on an annual basis
to ensure that these are consistent with the national conservation program
(ScheduLe 5, paragraph 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). Administratively,
ENERCON will work in close collaboration with ENERPLAN. The Center will be
headed by a Director and manned with long and short term expatriate advisers
and Pakistani professional and support staff. The work program of ENERCON
will be guided by a Supervisory Board composed of representatives of Federal
and Provincial governments and the private sector. The core activities of
ENERCON are expected to be financed by the Government and USAID. The Bank
would co.ntribute to the financing of public and private sector industrial
energy audits, feasibility studies and purchases of instrumentation. As a
first step, the Government has agreed under the proposed loan to ensure that
ENERCON identifies by December 31, 1985, on the basis of a private sec-
tor-wide energy consumption survey, at least 15 of the largest
energy-consuming plants in the private sector industries for audits to be
performed by local and foreign consultant firms. All efforts will be made to
complete these by December 31, 1987 (Schedule  5, paragrap'. 4(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Government has also agreed to initiate a program of
audits by November 1, 1985 in at least 20 of the largest energy consuming
plants in the public sector industries to be performed by local and foreign
consultant firms and completed by June 30, 1987 (Schedule 5, paragraph 4(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.     Manpower Development:  To ensure that Pakistani personnel are able
to continue the recently initiated energy planning and conservation
activities, the Government has implener.eed a sectoral manpower development
program. With the assistance of consultants financed by USAID, the Govern-
ment will conduct a manpower needs assessment to determine: (a) the range of
technical, management, and analytical skilLs needed to accomplish the goals



-22-
of energy programs; (b) the present capabilities of local institutions to
meet these needs; (c) the priorities to increase skills to meet these needs;
and (d) the actLons necessary to improve existing programs, together with the
cost and time requirements. Based on the results of the needs assessment,
ENERPLAN would organize and conduct in-country short courses and seminars on
selected topics, utilizing highly qualified professionals drawn from the
public and private sectors; identify further options for overseas training;
and pursue strategies to upgrade and enhance training programs in Pakistan
for improving the planning, management, and technical implementation of
energy sector policies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
History
57.     The proposed loan is the continuation of a process of Bank Group
assistance for long-term structural reforms initiated under the first Struc-
tural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) to Pakistan (Loan 2166-PAK; Credit 1255-PAK).
The SAL program for energy was wide-ranging, and included: strengthening of
OGDC; accelerated exploration of OGDC concession areas; increased private
sector participation; progressive rationalization of gas consumer prices; and
completion of a number of detailed studies needed for long-term energy plan-
ning. Although overall progress was highly satisfactory, it is clear that
reform of the energy sector in Pakistan will be a long-term process in which
continued Bank Group support can play a useful role. This sector loan
provides a comprehensive long-term framework for policy actions and, there-
fore, will be the basis for our expanded lending for specific energy invest-
ments for the next several years. The policy framework also will serve as a
basis for more effective coordination of all external financing for the
sector. This approach, a sector loan in support of an agreed long-term
policy framework followed by lending for specific investments, has substan-
tially enhanced our dialogue with the Government, fostering intensive and
focused discussions on issues which cut across energy subsectors and which
otherwise would have been treated, if at all, in a piecemeal and uncoor-
dinated fashion through project lending. In the energy sector, the policy
dialogue has focused on identifying issues constraining the development of
the energy sector and the actions and measures needed to address them. These
actions and measures constitute an integral part of the Government's core
investment program whose implementation is the basis of this loan. The
proposed loan was appraised in two phases. In Phase I, which was completed
in mid-December 1984, policy actions on which agreement was being sought were
reviewed with the Government. Phase II, which was completed in February
1985, focused on a detailed review of the investment priorities, the equip-
ment and material to be covered under this loan and on issues such as
timetable for the preparation of procurement documents, disbursements and
conditions for tranche releases. Technical discussions and negotiations took
place in Washington from April 15 to April 22, 1985. The Pakistani delega'
tion was led by Mr. Ejaz A. Naik, Secretary General, Economic Affairs Divi-
sion, Ministry of Finance.



-23-
Project Objectives
58.     The proposed loan would continue the structural adjustment process
initiated under SAL I to promote the integrated development of the energy
sector. It will also assist the Government in implementing the core invest-
ment program to minimize the possible adverse impact of continuing shortfalls
in energy and ensure that the slippages in investment that are expected to
occur during the rest of the current plan period do not become major impedi-
ments to the implementation of the Seventh Plan (paragraph 32).
Project Description
59.     The proposed loan would cover equipment, material and field services
needed for projects that are included in and are to be implemented during the
first two years (FY86 and FY87) of the three-year core investment program
(paragraph 33). It would aLso cover purchases of instrumentation and serv-
ices of consultants for energy audits and feasibility studies. The equip-
ment, material and services would be for projects in the areas of: (a) power
generation, transmission and distribution; (b) exploration and development
for oil and gas; (c) gas transmiss:on and distribution; (d) infrastructure
for the supply of petroleum products; (e) coal assessment and development;
and (f) energy conservation.
Project ImpLementation
60.     The core investment program includes projects to be implemented by
OGDC, KESC WAPDAt PSO, SNGPL, KGC, PMDC, (the Energy Sector Entities),
ENERCON, and ENAR Petrotech. In order to ensure the availa.Jility of the
equipment, material and services needed by these entities for the timely
implementation of the core investment program, the timetable for the prepara-
tion of procurement documents and award of contracts presented in Annex VIII
would have to be adhered to. The timetable is rCirly tight and consequently
a concerted effort would have to be undertaken by the Government, the
beneficiaries and the Bank to avoid slippage. The processing of the procure-
ment documents has been compressed substantially because WAPDA, KESC, OGDC
and SVGPL, who account for over BOX of the disbursements under the fi-rst
tranche have had considerable experience in preparing such documents.
Project Cost
61.     As noted (paragraph 33), the core investment program for FYs 86, 87
and 88 would amount to Rs 50 billion (US$3.2 billion), expressed in current
prices. Of this, Rs 21.3 bi!lion (US$1.4 billion) would be in foreign
exchange and Rs 28.6 billion (US$1.9 billion) would be in local currency.
62.     The financial requirements of the core investment program for the
first two years-(FY86 and FY87), the period covered under the proposed loan,
would amount to Rs 31.2 billion (US$2 billion). As summarized in the table
befow and described in detail in Annex IX, about Rs 17.9 billion (US$1.2
billion) of the total financial requirements wouLd be in local currency and
about Rs 13.3 billion (US$0.9 billinn) in foreign exchange. The projects for
WAPDA, OGDC and KESC, whose financial requirements are about Rs 18.9 billion,



-24-
Rs 5.7 billion and Rs 2.9 billion, respectively, would absorb 80% of funds
for the core investment program, representing 90Z of foreign exchange
requirement and 87Z of local funds requirements for the two years.
Financial Requirements of the Core Investment Program for FYs 86 and 87
(Rs billion)
1985/86                 1986/87                   Total
Subsector     Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Power             6.03    4.01   10.04   7.36    4.37   11.73  13.39    8.38   21.77
Petroleum         2.54    2.88    5.42   1.77    1.81    3.58   4.31    4.69    9.00
Coal              0.03    0.01    0.04   0.07    0.08    0.15   0.09    0.09    0.18
Planning and
Conservation    0.06    0.07    0.13   0.06    0.07    0.13   0.12    0.14    0.26
TOTAL       8.66    6.97   15.63   9.26    6.33   15.59  17.91   13.30   31.21
(US$ million)
1985/86                 1986/87                  Total
Subsector     Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Power            394      262      656    480     285      765    874      547    1421
Petroleum         166     188      354    116      118     234    282      306      588
Coal                2       1        3      5        5      10       7       6       13
Planning and
Conservation       4       4        8      4        5       9       8       9       17
TOTAL       566      455    1021    605      413    1018   1171       868    2039
Project Financing
63.     The sources of financing fcr the three-year core investment program
(paragraph 36), covering the period FY86-88 are presented in Anr.ex VII. The
financing plan for FY86 and FY87, the period in which the proposed ESL would
be disbursed, is summarized below along with the sources of financing.
p



-25-
Sources of Funds for the First Two Years of Core Investment Plan for FYs 86 and 87
(Rs billion)                 (US$ million)
1985/86   1986187   Total   1985186   1986/87   Total   Z
Local Costs
Internal Generation      4.13       4.81      8.94      270        314      584    29
Government of Pakistan  2.77        2.99      5.76      181        195      376    18
Local Borrowing          1.76       1.46      3.22      115         95      210    10
Subtotal               8.66       9.26    17.92       566        605    1171    57
Foreign Costs
Energy Sector Loan       1.58       1.15      2.73      104         74      178     9
Other Bank Loans          1.35      1.28      2.63       88         84      172     8
Other Sources             3.86      2.80      6.66      251        184      435    22
Financing Gap            0.18       1.09      1.27       71         71       83     4
Subtotal               6.97       6.32    13.29       455        413     868    43
TOTAL FINANCING       15.63      15.58    31.21      1021       1018    2039   100
The total funds required in the first two years for the implementation of
the core investment program would amount to Rs 31.21 billion (US$2,039 mil-
lion), consisting of Rs 17.9 billion (US$1,171 million) in local exchange and
Rs 13.3 billion (US$868 million) in foreign exhcange. Of the local currency
requirements, Rs 8.94 billion (US$584 million) would be generated from inter-
nal sources, Rs 5.76 billion (US$376 million) from the Government's Annual
Development Program and the balance Rs 3.2 billion (US$210 million) in loans.
The proposed loan would cover Rs 2.73 billion (US$178 million) of the foreign
exchange requirement. Other loans from the Bank, ADB, CIDA, USAID, etc.,
will cover another Rs 9.14 billion (US$607 million). The balance of the
foreign exchange requirements Amounting to Rs 1.27 billion (US$83 million)
would be secured through export and suppliers' credits.
64.     The financing gap for the various entities covered by the proposed
ESL is shown below.
Financing Lap
(Rs million)
1985/86          1986/87
WAPDA                                115                380
KESC                                  64                630
KGC                                                      37
PMDC                                  -                  47
Total Financing Gap                179              1,094
Since the financing gap is relatively small for WAPDA compared to its invest-
ment program, it is expected to be easily bridged through suppliers' credits.



-26-
In the case of KESC, most of the financing gap is for the construction of
generation units at Bin Qasim. The Government has requested the Bank to
consider co-financing for Units 3, 4 and 5 (3x210 NW). ADB is also expected
to finance part of this project.
65.     The proposed loan amounts to US$178 million.  Of this, US$85 million
would be absorbed by the power s..bsector, US$64 million by the petroleum
subsector, US$6 million by the coal subsector and US$5 million is earmarked
for energy conservation. Details relating to the distribution of the
proposed loan among the various subsectors and entities is presented in
Annex X. The energy conservation component of the proposed loan is divided
into two segments. The first would be made available through ENERCON or the
Ministry of Production to ENAR Petrotech to undertake a program of energy
audits, feasibility studies and instrumentation purchases to be implemented
in 20 of the highest energy consuming public sector industrial plants to be
specified and agreed with the Bank. The purpose of these audits is to iden-
tify the actions to be taken and investments needed to reduce their energy
consumption. Since ENAR-Petrotech has already compLeted a comprehensive
energy consumption survey of the public sector industrial plants and has
adequate experience in conducting energy audits in Pakistani industry, it is
in a position to initiate immediately the program of energy audits,
feasibility studies and instrumentation purchases. To expedite the implemen-
tation of this program, the services of ENAR-Petrotech of up to US$1 million
will be financed retroactively. The second, to be channeled through ENERCON,
will be used (i) by private sector industries to undertake a program simiLar
to tnat in the public sector; and (ii) by industry in private and public
sectors for engineering studies and purchases of instrumentation.
Procurement
66.     The procurement would cover the foreign exchange cost of equipment,
material and consulting services needed by the energy sector entities
(paragraph 60) for the implementation and operation of projects included in
the core investment program. For WAPDA and KESC the equipment and material
would be for the rehabilitation of generating plants and for the reinforce-
ment and expansion of transmission and distribution networks. OGDC's equip-
ment and material would be for deep and medium depth wells. The equipment
and material for SNGPL would be for the rehabilitation of the gas transmis-
sion and distribution system. For KGC, the equipment and material are for
improving its distribution network and its control. PSO's equipment and
material requirements cover a tanker discharge line at the Karachi Port,
storage tanks and allied facilities. PMDC's equipment and material includes
core drilling machines, laboratory and well logging equipment, belt con-
veyors, etc. Services of consultants for energy audits and feasibility
studies, as well as purchases of instrumentation, are required for energy
conservation. A summary of the type of equipment needed by each entity is
presented in Annex XI.
67.     Of the total proceeds of the proposed loan, about;US$103 million
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accord-
ance with the Bank guidelines; about US$39 million through Limited Interna-
tional Bidding (LIB) by inviting quotations from at least five suppliers from



-27-
at least three eligible countries; about US$6 million through Local Competi-
tive Bidding (LCB) using the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures
which are satisfactory; and the remaining US$30 million, which is for
proprietary equipment obtainable only from one source and specified services,
would be through direct contracting (DC), as shown below:
Procurement
(US$ million)
First    Second
Total     ICa     LIB      LCB     DC    Tranche   Tranche
WAPDA                    60.0     21.3    9.5      3.5   25.7      34.0       26.0
KESC                     25.0     22.0    1.9      -      1.1      15.0       10.0
OCDC                     52.0     43.4    5.7      -      2.9      28.5       23.5
SNCPL                    21.0      7.1  .11.4      2.5    -        12.0        9.0
KGC                       5.0      -      5        -      -         4.0        1.0
PSO                       4.0      4.0    -        -      -         4.0        -
PMDC                      6.0      5.2    0.8      -      -         2.0        4.0
Energy Conservation       5.0      -      5       -       -         5.0        -
TOTAL                 178.0    103.0   39.3      6.0   29.7    104.5        73.5
Documents for individual contracts above US$500,000 equivalent would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. Local manufacturers competing under
ICB will have a 15% preference or the applicable duty, whichever is less,
for supply of goods. Consultants wouLd be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
On-Iending Arrangements
68      The Government will on-lend the proceeds of the loan to OGDC, KESC,
SNCPL, PSO, KGC, PWDC and to industrial companies through ENERCON/Ministry of
Production at 14Z p.a., with the other lending terms being the same as those
of the Bank. In the case of WAPDA, because it is a public utility, in
accordance with Government policy, funds will be on-lent at 11. Other
lending terms will be the same as those of the Bank. The Government will
bear the interest rate and foreign exchange risk. Subsidiary loan agreements
will be required between the Covernment and each of the beneficiaries, as
well as between ENERCON/Ministry of Production and the beneficiary industrial
companies. Satisfactory conclusion of the subsidiary loan agreemencs will be
a condition of disbursement (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Tranching and Disbursement
69.     The proposed ESL provides support for the core investment program
which focuses on the implementation of high priority projects and policy
actions and measures needed to address the major sectoral issues. The
implementation of a specific set of these actions will trigger tranche
release and the loan proceeds under that tranche will be disbursed against
specific equipment and materiaL required to implement the core investment



-28-
program, procured in accordance with Bank guidelines and made on the basis of
withdrawal applications to the Bank. The proposed loan will be released in
two tranches. Disbursements under the first tranche, amounting to about
US$104 million, will begin in September 1985 and continue until the closing
of the loan. Likewise, disbursements under the second tranche, amounting to
about US$74 million, will also continue until the closing of the loan. The
size of each tranche is based on the outlays needed for the timely implemen-
tation of the core investment program. The proceeds of the loan will be
disbursed against 100% of the CIF cost of imported goods, 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locaLly-manufactured goods, and IOOZ of the consultancy
services.
Conditions for the Effectiveness of the Proposed Loan and Tranche Release
70.     The conditions for effectiveness of the loan, which are also the
conditions for the release of the first tranche, are as follows (Section 5.01
of the draft Loan Agreement):
(a) the introduction of a tariff increase, effective July 1, 1985,
which will enable WAPDA to finance from internally-generated
funds at least 40X of its investment program in FY86; and
(b) the announcement of the new formula for determining gas
producer prices.
The conditions for the release of the second tranche would be as follows
(Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement):
(a) the introduction of a tariff increase, effective July 1, 1986,
which will enable WAPDA to finance from internally-generated
funds at least 40% of its investment program in FY87; and
(b) the review of progress made in implementing the core investment
program in 1985/86 and the program for 1986/87 as well as the
indicative programs for 1987/88 and 1988/89.
Benefits and Risks
71.     The proposed loan will make a major contribution to the continuing
structural adjustment process in Pakistan. Preparation of the loan has
assisted the Government to articulate a well-defined rnd comprehensive
strategy for the development of the energy sector. By financing imports
required to implement the Government's core investment program in energy,
the proposed loan will support an investment program which takes into account
the interlinkages among energy subsectors, and the impLementation and financ-
ing capabilities of the Government. By providing a comprehensive and
integrated policy framework, the proposed loan will assist the Government to
enhance the effectiveness of public investment in energy and, where
appropriate, encourage the mobilization of private sector participation. The
major benefits of the proposed lo'an will be through its contribution to
strengthened energy sector planning, the adoption of policy reforms which
address key structural constraints within an integrated sectoral framework,
and the implementation of the Government's core energy investment program.



-29-
Over the next three to five years, progress in these areas should have a
major positive effect on Pakistan's balance of payments and the efficiency of
resource allocation, through the accelerated development of indigenous energy
resources to substitute for imports and improvements in energy conservation.
Improvements in the energy sector would have a major beneficial impact on
other sectors, specially industry.
72.     The major risk of the proposed ESL is that political events, either
within Pakistan or in the region, may impede implementation of the reform
program. However, to date the Government has demonstrated a strong commit-
ment to a gradual rationalization of energy sector policies and, in many
cases, has successfully implemented measures involving politically difficult
decisions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Energy
Sector Entities, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
74.     Additional conditions of effectiveness wouLd be the undertaking of
the review referred to in paragraph 48 of this Report, and the announcement
of the formula for determining gas producer prices. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
75.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



-30-
PART VI - RECOMYEgDATION
76.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 6, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-31-                                              ANNE 1
TA8LS *A                                      Page  1  of 5
PAXISTAI              - SAOCIL INDICATOS DATA                     Page
PAmUTS                              IU 3C SOUPS (lElfO  AUBAI l
MT                  (MOST RCLUlr ESTMAT) T
RINT          LOW DICBKDL   C
196Ok    1970&    ZSTIAThU          ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
SEA   et CU16S9. 3)
TOTAL                              803.9      803.9       603.9
ASICULTURAL                        227.5      243.3       253.3
o  vs cAI  CUS)                       70.0       130.0       360.0            278.6                  1091.2
a   cmmwnou u  Ca U
(KILOSMS OF OIL EQUIVWAZI)          98.0      139.0       179.0             272.0                  567.3
owuTnm AM wrTL mnwuAuit
PDPULATION.NID-TYRA  (T5OUSAD)   4535.0    60449.0      67135.0
URBA  POPULATION (C O TOTAL)       22.1        26.9        29.1              21.7                   34.7
POPULATION PROJUCT IONS
POPULilTION IN YAR  2000 (HILL)                          139.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                             377.3
POPULATION MOHNHTUM                                        1.9
POPULATION ODESB
PER SQ. IN.                       37.0       75.2        105.1            166.6                  261.9
PR SQ. IN. AI. wAN               201.5      246.4       333.6             345.5                 1733.1
POPULATION ACC STCRSIIC (C)
0-14 itS                         63.6       46.3         46.1             35.8                   39.0
15-64 YRS                        53.8        50.5        50.9              59.8                   57.6
65 AND ABOVE                       4.4        3.2         2.7               4.3                    3.3
POPULATION GROWST RATE CZ)
TotAL                              2.1        2.8         3.0               1.9                    2.3
UIRaN                              4.6        4.0         4.3               6.1                    4.3
CRUDE SlAIN RATE (PgR TtouS)        48.6       46.6        62.0              27.7                   30.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE  THOUS)        23.4       19.3         15.4             10.1                    9.5
raOSS REERODUCTIOU RATE              3.4        3.4         3.0               1.8                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUIAL (TNOUS)          ..     1906.1       1244.0 /c
USRS ( OP HARIElCD WCN)            ..        6.0 Id       ..                .                    52.7
AP   I IIITS
INDEX or VOOD PlOD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       89.0      102.0        105.0            112.8                  123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OP REqUINQEErs)       68.0      106.0        106.0             97.7                  114.4
PROtEINS (CRAMS PU DAT)           58.0       65.0        65.0              56.8                   57.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       23.0       22.0         20.0 /a          14.9                   14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DrATH RATE         25.4       21.0        16.8               9.8                    7.2
IALTS
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      43.1       W60          49.6             60.0                    60.4
INFANT NORT. RATE (P  TIOUS)      161.5       143.0       120.9             63.6                    66.3
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (IPaP)
TOrAL                               ..       21.0        29.0 /f           3L9                    37.0
URlN                                 -       77.0        60.0 if          70.9                    54.8
RURAL                              ..         4.0        17.0 IF          22.1                    26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATIoN)
TOTAL                               *-        3.0         6.0 tj           16.1                   41.3
URBAN                               ..       12.0        21.0 Ij           72.8                   67.4
RURAL                               ..         ..          ..               4.6                   33.3
POPULATION PER PtYSICIAN          5600.0     4300.0/h    3480.0           3486.2                  7749.4
POP. PER NRSING PERSON           16960.0    1o050.0/W    5820.0           4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PU HOSPITAL SD
ToAL                            1790.0     1860.0       1560.0 Ic        1066.5                 1044.2
URDa                             510.0      650.0       710.0 re         298.0                   651.2
RURAL                          22850.0    12480.0      11860.0 re        5993.4                 2594.6
AD1MISIONS PER HNSPITAL RED           ,.         ..           .               ..                    27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4        5.3         6.1 Ic
URBN                               5.6        5.5         6.6 /r
RURAL                              5.4        5.2         6.0 Ic
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOW
TOTAL                              3.1        2.8 It
URBAN                              3.1        2.7 .i
RURAL                              3.1        2.8/1        .. .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWZLLINGS)
TOTAL                                        17.9 /1
URBN                                ..       54.4 6..L
AUL                                 ..        4.9 A        ..



-32-                                         ANNEX 1
TA _UL  3Z                              ,        Page 2  of  5
PAISA                  - SOIA  INICTMO DAAINR
PAKISTAN                       RE1UREEma  GROUPS (tIzEmTD AVERACR   k
HOST (HST RICET STIATE) b
1960ik~~~        117x0D           U!*l DlClXlltm        IIDDLZ nICoQ
z,eO/tk    sg,o1k    3.TINATELk       ASI A  PACIF=           ASIA G PFACIC
ADJU6TED tSOUuN  RATIOS
PUK1Ys  2OTAL                      30.0        40.0         56.0              97.4                   102.0
MALM                    46.0        57.0         71.0             110.5                   105.9
vuwzLC                  13.0        22.0         31.0              63.7                    98.2
8BODAM 4   TOTAL                   11.0        13.0         17.0              35.9                    46.0
HALE                    18.0        20.0         27.0              44.6                    48.7
PUZ                      3.0         5.0          7.0              26.8                    43.1
VOCATIONAL (I 0F SECONDARY)           1.0         1.5          1.0 Le           2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-TRACIUI RATI
IDtAuZ                             39.0        41.0         46.0              36.5                    31.8
SECON T                            24.0        20.0         23.0 Ic           15.7                    23.5
ADULT LITErAY RATE (x)               15.4        20.7 /1      24.0 /c           53.4                    72.9
clmammo
pASSEN  CI*S/flUSN   FOP              1.5         2.6          3.4               0.9                    10.1
oADwO R1UEIVESITOUWD POP              6.0        17.1         67.0             112.1                   113.6
TV RWIERS/TUD  MOP                     .,         1.6          9.7              15.7                    50.1
NiS?AP  (wMILY C LENERAI
INTIRET ) CIRCUlATION
PZR TOUSAJ  POPULATOS              13.2          ..         13.7 /c           16.2                    53.9
CNIA ANNJAL ATTE*UJNCRPITA            1.7         3.0 1j       2.2 re            3.6                     3.4
TOTAL LA  FORCE (TWOUl)           144.0    17364.0         25240.0
WUALE (PELCENT)                     6.6         9.3         10.5              33.3                    33.5
ACIClULTUK (PERCI)                 61.0        59.0         57.0              69.6                    52.2
NDUSY (PERCENT)                    18.0        19.0         20.0              15.8                    17.9
PAITICXPATION RI  (PU:SIr)
TOTAL                              31.5        28.7         29.0              42.6                    38.7
-KLE                               55.2        50.4         49.3              54.7                    50.9
PFUIZ                               5.7         5.5          6.0              29.8                    26.6
ECONOSIC  ZDZ CENCr RATIO             1.5         1.7          1.8               1.0                     1.1
PEV  (1 PRIUVAs DICOII
RECEIVED ST
HICHEST 5X OF HOUSEHOLDS           20.3 /k    17.8            ..                ..                    22.2
HIGET  207. oF NOUSRODS            45.3 ,r     41.8           ..               ..                     48.0
tIST 201 OF HOUSEHDLDI              6.4 d       8.0           ..               ..                      6.4
LOWZSr 40X OF IENDLOS              17.5 r      20.2          ..                ..                     15.5
ESTMATZED ABSOLtXE POVMRTY IDCQC
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
CARUM                                ..        68.0 IJ    176.0 lc          133.9                    t88.6
RURAL                                ..        47.0        t 122.0 re        111.6                   152.0
ESTIMATED RIMATIVE POVEM ITI D
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..        34.0         a.0 /              *177.9
RURAL                                ..        22.0  j      58.0 /g            ..                    164.6
ZST1DATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY InCUtI LEVEL (2)
URAnm                                ..        42.0 /1      32.0 /c          43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                ,,        43.0         29.0 re          51.7                     37.7
NOI AVAILABLE
NOT APPLACILE
N o T E S
la  Mh  group aaeraeu tor each Indicator are population-wight.d arithbetic means. Coverage of eounttie. amog the
iedlcatarr depende an avallability of data and IS not uniform.
A    Unlcae otberwise noted, "Data for 19M0" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Deta for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; e>d dats for "Noet R eent tatimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/e 1979; /d 1968; 1. 1977; /f 1976; /L 1975; lh Regietered. not ell practoicng In the country: it 1973; /1 1972; /k
1964.                                                                                                      1984
JUNE. 1984



mrvjrrIwLjAffdMLsLQwPage 3 of 5
Sh6No*  6169     " 666 .     11. - *666 9966     a.6 g..,6lit 3.. to. Nol ..666694.- I..     _.66.63.. Is .1-Is NIB. . 66 " .694  6  lb"p Nor .,m 6. 2..Moot.321,
466666  61466.1  66616low6 1666.99*Wm- du.669R. .1161.61. *699.666 66666602614to
6111.661.       163. o 66 66  .66666.'    4.661  op.rumt sin. p.m:6. 1Jl..61Iwo4 .99*,6 .6fe  a.m 96161,01W 66.61 616.6 663,t r66 666.111 6"1 66  1opo
oft" h.. 4.6. 6.666 &IRL .WINNO. *361h.66  -no*6  1 Noto6.  won6 16J69.gm 46366.666  6113616   61h.646 664 66 6.9 a -66-. 9*6666.6  66 
66r166616 9666U16640 *69026or -  16l11666 .61  66"6669. 11W.6*6661..9.of ookp _.OV11.66  ropono 6661t.1  1.    -   6616.a...  6662.           666 *663- JN
1111f16.I 1.166961.666.196394316  -66on61666A666666I 1660.                    695666  669V . 4        66  .419  *9966 a166661  1.61.
1p31 4L1-6666. 61 *.6t1.16.1.1  -9666   6661   966666                           6666.66 166-6 6916.6666966. 4.646666.66111 66   6
P6616I66        -  hlf-sw-  r2.  IM.66416666961Ion16   Iwo,11116.6 6960               IRMO"9.6166..
mi A...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~666    6
6le6. 9901. so 1 43 46.1                                                                  at 69 16*6029616196.  66616L11666I6, p969646g m166.6191, Wo.6641.6
No966  *6 6.616161   a. 66I6 6666966636. h02W6L 36(666 h-Ilk6 *
Me"10t 66  1 666 - 6..  6469             -Wast63. of -602.I6                      .6161 6666.166t66 rod91 66966666666696  6'  9676696 6666 6, * *d196I
W66661 .66666. 969166t     6.666.6  616.  -I66.6                      666616. 66r66. 644639. 646.) 66666 W.,6 16.666t6666 61664      d1.
.64 sm.666.6  .6.01939166  6. Lat3.6602   "1 "P."Nol, p6  .19166  6946.                69966666 6 6661:61 *-Op M1 -.11-1 6.9611666.
6916. .61 69M 46.IEfLi H "                                                                                   L ; 16d63 -Nb  61 MN.46.W36  W 16691696166
WO6N6696.3 46l.  6  6   0           d. ...
of 666.17 II1666.696.*663fl
I1*6.~I4116.A~JL1641l  6666 6 '"No6 6F6666  P69P316669"I".6661161.61*6A U.L.t.96.
Noo 02691663t 6166. 616.6167 6.         . 42  t                                      666 *66664  .666   61.1 666p6..
669666690236366 6661666*666 61.64. 602                        .1.666   66669.tot6L6 .1.6161 66 666166              .
66  6*Bo o -      -6666 6.6I66111 6* ft96LL11y                    NBI161t. Foop-ta69.6. 66.1l1.w 6696*6 02pV-VNIIg 6969196
_66.  9J.9661 P6661.666  669      tymoRopo ...16   66666666  169.                 66.6966  Porn6.
169g.6 6.6.66. IsIot I 1.oIe.66666661619666 1666.1411    67~  6                   666  966,661 966966  69*616666- 966  6                    IN6 *6 16966
66666.v.36 669d26666 66 669616369 96966666 666 6666  6-.63                         61 66966. 66.6. *6 9691 tw66469669661.9
666*6d6f d69166 16 669611169.6966I4IN916 L-Nor 666 *6d p-6 9*636T
*L.6666.po69un602.6    6640266W 66 6666 66636661 *661 6*6. 66.6
1666.66666.6666-64ts 6666  666 N't61 m *36.o 66.64 1.6111196-By NN6tNNI-NI 63RL63i6.ij.   316.66 e6...6.6 -66666
Nod VnNI16 No 6..v.    66O 6m.6  0.36166.66  6L96  963        -a601* k*6=N 1.9 6616  669 46669.61 1M 46 611- p66  6*616.                           .
b-60 N  aft666  666;N '666611*997 RP666366166616666666lb.4 66966M                              W62  ;666.11  666 69.6-, 6=  66 611"66. 696  *6
O=        36 666 1c .66 R 66 p666366666 69 o6 66*696*                        39691*66669. 66L666l. -6 966666196661.6. 6666966666  6
66*6666616  P9.33666 ,6-166.3 1616   F 661-6  6-  .h. -d166i66 Lp1.66. -6.66, .612 R. 66 R9666 69666  6                     -616466  I666669
.    166 1666 666 v-..  to  -Fo.* - 6696.61 Ito                                                                            .......166.466666.  661..     .966.  6666
""66666666  I.IN66 663  666 07"L6966  1669  9666 b  66                      66*66.96  61666.-  661966                     6611
LB664 6646*                                                               6666166L96. 9666L  W  96.966  66 66.649     69   6          6.646
R6.666   9666666               A9669 -=   69964.  666666 I66-491% I. .r. 6.I.R.t669
996...6966.1-6.  3'*6 - 6669.4" a .1-I 9. .46.  66   *                      6 1.9..-I2 69,6I1*61 -LI   36666   9613 -66  *666
6NIIS 960". 6936. NM 392 4e.6.                                                              [M9666666  666   666*9666  669.49  6*626. 669.6.
p,   -qww)__ ptot9666- 61-16*                              66d-46666.           p6616
0.' 6666M6611.3I'P6.416  *   6961-14   661                                             691-W- .6666'1.4 13. u..LtN    90or             19fol            d
r    *6!n  -  M-06    66666  661tf 6.06   61o 66-7. NLA-                 .6.9666. 961.6646661666.1 -36 66.6666 16 -p69666666 96
PROL-l66  WW1 6        _- 6 St"66.6.6   666316 666lo  906   613666   6166  669*4  666691
9666 6.96*666 r  A46    66.4066. 4IMILL6fo 16M.oo   .313669W 1-16R616t6   3 79                             966616TV66. r       6*6 t- Ir 6" 666
666 66*6m69._  M     66616661 ,     .6666o 60r   666691969 L                        66666.666     NM9636 L1.666- 66   666666A69or TV    666 6669646ot
6.991161, 66r66*6613 P3.  ... 66666 616  66 6666. 6976. *69*66                                                                     lb-4366.66   66.6  9   4.9666669666
a3642.- -  .1.                                                                   661. ---.     .6616661M66694.  ..96                 .6  6  0666
mca.lcy, soclot LINNIL6. 6.2696.,.6            -    Io1n.  6166991                     66 ow    9     9 1    --L69  66  666 P6-16666.66
396666616  6....  02666666666 6636  6-,) - , . M    61Nod.    .
p.69.3t666.6  .11 *6-. 66616366666.6 666666666666.96  6
66d9.66636 61611. 669011 -* 342 *6..
9.69666    6649 6666966393  - .46  6 III.9.P6.                                 66L.3  1666 9699696696666. 61 16663 3L66  f66
96.4 -* L. 66 .61*6. 56. %-.6. 6C-39    6666  p661.6, 666*o 16.6.                    961.1.4 66 66r91.6666  19f . 666669696636666). 6690 *6l 346 I66
*6660  L-6."66Ng 669.6) 6646 696 64663. *6 6666.66L N66*66 16.9.                                       L"o366.6 6*66  66616.  -666636 ..E- .9696.4 *
6*666 *6 96669 6-63646). AM".~. j39646g666C 61 6666          F 6397 1                669616 66  *d    66 666666666 69 .-I6 3S66 666  L9OW. 6167
46p-9.661363 ALVIN93166 666.6166 466666 6664L.6166 i.916  666                        696 -Nw._ 161 664 6666 4666  1*r too  1m.A. -(106. p69m  -166 666
now 6..  Loo *-  3." 66666. 366     &p31_ 026.6616.11! (6.   t66                      636196666  6669   16   6..36   *3666   66.6
*6 *6d on6 41o69669c6 of Pp61oo.16 .. 6* 611*669 to 666666 569-f9
W *6666.14 1.616 16913-9. 19wo a"4 6660 469.                                        B1T 02
9.696661. 66.1~61 .9666.=6,!:9h".  - P96663.6666*661 Be96666 -61 -166 .                                    6666626  *6164   - 666*  by 11666.6'
p.3. 66666.  -fan .1*6*30   6* d34   .66 d6 29666  6*6.f
%64 666.6"!     N 696 .-6.66 . 969 *    ,96. 6666666  VW me1.3  66.                  66.634 66 3666669.N.4 6166 roorl-RALt  -t.-
M world            *6 p63i"  66 a2 IV=      &41.76 Not6-63   9,W   nl               6611111666U?      =     dL.x.461f9t661.16  02- -.1*69616.666 3021
4.66.                                                                        616.966696.~~~~~~-X     -
de.4 B66 ~36.69.=        166, I969      661*66p966*6 d6166696 69616616 666.91 61669. 6.696  6666 .IAL                                 163roo r-l"LBIt  -
dl. dI."   - L- CS6602 0I.6  61O ood 61 11-.-66-6-C a-69696  p6..36646.96.  *6-   -  1961 d 6r 666 666cm36
630216164.iIJl6*164U4696.                                    p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U-.  tb6r9.SWNW  t         1   b
9.66!                              -"" 6  6     19 666   P9, 60*616  6
I 6669166666. Io 9     JiIBL
026.76136) No 660216.69663  961.6666  pwtn36666.  1.1.
.6*666      P-1 ir6o966116   966996466  6966066   I...64 666  36 02666
,C666 *6 90*614 660  666. 96    d * 4666.9 130.. 6666-.6
NOR. o  16 1666696  ch- 9*6176 Rolor    .
,1dooa Nao   unit    mm l-         o
-by 6361663 66*6 worom W6an o .6r6Pic 0.66 r me. 66
=NN6 6169636613632    *.646961~66*



'34-
Page 4 of 5
lXCHeYKC DR ZLOPKCX  DATA
GN? PER CAPITA IN   N2:  WS380 LA
GROSS NATIONAL *R?ODU  13 1998214 a                                      ANNUAL RATE Ol GROWTh (S. comnent prices)
u  USZliua         S               1969/70-1974/71  1917/76-198081  1981U18  1982/13  l953/84
CFP at market prices             33.68          100.0                   3.5               7.1            4.3      7.4      4.2
Gross domestic investment         5.23           15.5                  -5.5               4.1           10.5      9.6      3.4
Gross national saving             4.20           12.5                  -2.1               6.7           6.9      24.9     -6.5
Current account balance          -1.00           -3.0                                      .
Exports of goods, NIF             3.44           10.2        *         -3.5               7.3           -5.6     27.5     -3.2
Imports of goods, NYS             7.06           21.0                  -7.1               5.5           0.7       1.1     22.0
OUTPT, LArsoL rce  AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983/84
Value Added                  labor force /c                V. A. Par Worker
mNillion    2                                                  i ilLion    S  U  S
Agriculture                      6.652      24                14.1      51                     472      47
Industry /d                      8.096      29                 5.2      19                   1.557    155
Services                        12.931     47                 -.L      -0                    1.558   1:
Total/Average                 27.679    100                 27.6     100                   1.003    100
GOVERNMNET FINANE
Ce,tgLl CGvernuent le                             Federal Governmen
(Re  billion)          S of GDP                 (Re billion)          Z of CDP
19831U4 LI    1953/ 4  1978179-19831Z 4         1983/S4 IL  1953/84  1978179-1983184
Current receipts                       73.2          17.4          16.6                58.2        13.9          12.4
Current expenditures                   "l            lL            23.                 6LkM A3.2
Current surplus                        -7.2          -1.7          -6.3                -4.6        -1.1          -0.4
Capital expenditures IL                34.2           8.1           9.4                34.2         7.0           8.0
External assistance (net)                6.0          1.4           2.1                 6.0         1.4           2.1
NONET. CREDIT AND PRICES
1974175   1975176   197 617;   1977178   1978179      1979180   19       19151   19 118  I" 2183 1    12184 1k
(Ra billion)
Mouey and quasi money Li                  33.1       41.6       51.7      63.7       76.5      90.7      103.5     113.6    146.0    162.5
lank credit to public sector               21.2      28.1       36.6      43.5      54.9       61.8      70.9       79.7     95.5    105.6
laenk credit to private sector             16.0      17.8       23.0      26.5      30.9       36.9      41.9       51.3     62.8      77.8
(percentages or index numbers)
Money end quasi money as Z of GDP          29.5      31.5       34.6      36.7       39.0      38.3      37.0       35.1       40.1      38.7
Consumer price index (1969170-100)        211.3     229.4      256.7     277.0      295.6     331.9     375.4      403.9     418.1      462.0
Annual percentage changes ix:
Cosumer price index                       23.6        8.6       11.9       7.9       6.7       12.3       13.1       7.6       3.5       10.5
lank credit to public sector                         32.5       30.2      18.8       26.2      12.6       14.7      12.4       19.8      10.6
lank credit to private sector                 .      11.2       29.2      15.2      16.6       19.4       13.5      22.4      22.4       23.9
/a  Based on World Bank Atlas methodology and calculated at an average of 1980-82 prices  nd exchange rates. All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchane rate prevailing during the period covered.
tb  Provisional.
LE  Projection for 1983184. Does not include uneployed labor force.
Id  Includes mmfacturing, mining, construction end electricity  nd g.
/t Consolidated reveues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial Government
transfers).
If  Revised budget data.
it  Excluding principal repayments of foreign loans.  Capital expenditures as defined in government budget includ
certain current expenditures also.
fh  Provisional.
Li  Monetary statistics of Pak.csta  have bean fully adjuated for demonetized  notes. devaluation and revaluation of the
rupee. etc. am from June 30, 1975. Data for 1974175 frot State lank sources are not strictly comparable with MK
eati mtes for earlier years.
Not applicable.
lot available.
March 1985



-35-
Page 5 of 5
l.AU~~~3 OF PAUU!I                                           HIUCE*lDI~~~~U3 UPORT  UV(AWI    1979/W0-9831B4)
Xlml   ~       ~       u~   m1LS nuE1   mLg1w g 11U
199801080/   121121613 1814ABUA 
(138 million)
bports of goods. on               2.955    3,461    3,052    3.416     3,439         INV cotton                   315.3        11.9
Importu of goods, F               5709  _6,466       679    Ue         7.058         Cotton ya                    214.7         8.1
Resource gap (deficit - -)      -2,754   -3.005   -3.627   -3.172    -3.619          Cotton cloth                 281.1        10.6
lice                         417.9        15.8
Interant peymete                  -285    -357      -453    -421        -477        All other coditis           1 22           53.6
Iorkrew   rmittanee               1,74a    2.097    2,224    2,687     2,737           Total                    2,651.4       100.0
Other factor psaymnus (wt)          151      274     321       195       359
net tranafera                             -.--A   .......q. 
Salaam an current account       -1,140      -9;1   -1.535    -51    -100 ,DnT. JMU  1984
Direct foreign ineet_mt
let 3? borrmoing                                                                                                         fl.million
Disbursenats                    1.134      956    1,102    1,301     1.246
Amortition                       -310     -516 .492   -_81K           -569         Public debt. including guarciteed      9,890.4
Sub-total                         824      440     610       915       679          o-uaranteed private debt Ia
Traedction  with IMF LL              78      315      353      413        -1           Total otetanding and dimbured        5,390.4
Other iteme n.e.i. Lk               600      546     318      285        142
increaee in resrves C-)           -362    -310        249  -1.102        180           DI SUIVICS RATo FOR 1983184 L(
Grees reserves (end Year) le        748    1,058     809    1.911      1.731                                                     S
Petroleum import. 1g              1.079    1,535    1,710    1,610     1,423         Public debt, including guaranteed         15.6
Petroleum export. LA                178      126     194       77         40         hn-guarateed private debt
Total                                 15.6
UTZ OF UXCHANG                                                                          ISIDIIDA LUDIN  (December 183M  (US$ illiou)
Ibroeth 1ev 11. 1972               From Na, 12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                      Ufl       X
US1 - Re 4.7619                           US$1 - an 11.00                         Outstanding and diebured            350.7   1,144.7
Re I - USS0.21                            Rs I - 1SSO.09                         Undiabureed                         197.0    617.Z
oauttanding including undiebured   547.7   1,761.9
Fom Feb. 16. 197:3-J. 7J 1982   From July 1981-June 1932 LI         From JulT 1982-June 1983  L      From July 1983-JMe 1984 1
MSS 1 - a 9.90                       US$1a1 - l .S5                 VS$I - Rs 12.75                   5851 - R  13.50
as  1 - US$O.10                      Re I - US$0.095                Rs I - 1980.078                  as 1 -  M0.074
Ia  Ineluding Truet Fund.
sL. Including net abort-te  borrowigt and error, ad oniemion..
e  Recluding golA reservee of about 1. mdllion troy ounces.
/A Crude nd derivecivee.
LI Nom-guarated  private debt service ie ngligible.
IL Ratio of actual debt sevice to exports of goods, factor ed no-factor  erviess; debt eevice ineludee DV1 charges.
IL  Effective January 8, 1982. the rupe  is to be mened with reference to a weighted basket of currencies.  The arerag
exchane rate aboun ie vis-a-vis US$ for the period aboun.
not Available.
lereb 1985



-36-
Page I of 2
5AI4T OF DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKS1TAN
A.  STATINENT OF LAN LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1985) LL
(USS million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellationsl
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   Undi-
Sunber     Year    Punrose                               hnk    TW       IDA       bursed
Ninety-eight loans and credits fully disbursed lk    781.4  32.0  1.001.6/L
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)        -                14.0      3.5
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development            -      10.0     -          3.5
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamtion           -               70.0      66.8
813       1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.               -                12.5      4.2
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    -                  60.0      53.6
892       1979   Primary Education                       -                10.0      3.9
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extengion             -                9.0       4.6
968       1980   Third WAPDA Power                       -               45.0       6.4
974       1980   Third Highway                           -               50.0        .7
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development            -               40.0        .7
11091e    1981   Vocational Training                     -               25.0       1.4
1113kI   1981   Small Induatries                         -               30.0       0.4
1157Le    1981   Grain Storage                           -               32.0      16.7
1158kL   1981   Agricultural Research                    -               24.0      15.1
1163Le    1981   On-Farn Water Management                -               41.0      13.0
1186ke   1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         -               30.0       4.8
2122      1982   Fourtb Telecomunication                 40.0            -         13.8
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5               -         26.5
2247      1983   Reservoir Haintenance Facilities        10.2            -         10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADIP V)              10.0            --         5.9
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines        43.0            -         42.2
'239Lj    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -                  40.0      25.2
1243k    1982   Baluchiatan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          -               14.0      10.6
12561e    1982   Technical Assistance                    -                7.0       4.7
1278k    1982   Eleventh Railvay Project                 -               50.0      39.5
1348ke   1983   Lahore Urban Development                 -               16.0      14.0
1350ke   1983   Population                               -               18.0      14.1
1355kI   1983   Coal Engineering                         -                7.0       6.3
1374ke   1983   Karachi Water Supply                     -               25.0      22.0
1375ke   1983   Fourtb Drainage                          -               65.0      58.8
1380ke   1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                   47.8      17. '
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project            12.0            -
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                   51.5            -         48.5
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development  30.0               -         24.2
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit            50.0            -         49.9
1439kC   1984   Industrial Investment Credit             -               50.0      44.6
1461kL   1984   Integrated Hill Farning Development  -                   21.0      19.9
1480ke   1984   Second Technical Assistance              -                7.0       6.5
1487      1984   Comand Water Management                 -               46.5      43.3
1499      1984   Second Small Industries                 -               50.0      44.0
15321c    1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I    -                 150.0    150.0
1533/c    1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -                   8.3       8.3
2499/c    1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                     1.0DD    _       -        100.0
Total                                                 1,166.6  42.0  2,115.9  1.088.3
of which has been repaid                              490.2   3.8      39.8
Total now outstanding                                   676.4  38.2  2,076.1
Amunt sold                    23.9
of which has been repaid    23L.                      -       -         -        -
Total now held by Sank and IDAId                        576.4  38.2  2.076.1
Total undisbursed                                       330.  _JA       754.0  1.088.3
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Dank/IDA financial projects in execution, vhich is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Lk Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits vholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
Le, Not yet effective.
4  Prior to exchange adjustment.
/e IDA Credits under the 6tb Replenisbuent denominated in SDRS. The principal
is shown in rUS equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed mounts are
computed at the _mrket rate on dates of disbursements.
Li By using the mrket rate On dates ofZ disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAZ and Credit 1255-PAX (botb fully disbursed) is
842.5 and S77.5, respectively.



-37-
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In USS   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      -        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75      -        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing              -       0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
1'%65-
1980-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92        3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
L.d. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     -         1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70      -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                 4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistaa Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       99.32    1.56    100.88
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.       3.44    0.38       3.82
Total Gross Commitments                   179.91   11.33    191.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               13.1.59    0.38    131.97
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          48.32   10.95       59.27
Undisbursed (including participants)       6S.70    0.70      69,.40



ANNEX III
-38-                 Page I of 2
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I    :   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
14 months
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Inter-ministerial Energy Working Group
(c) Date of firs: Bank mission to consider the project:
January 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
Phase I - December 1984; Phase II - February 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 22, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1985
Section II   :   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III  :   Special Conditions
(a) review with the Bank in detail the performance of the
core investment program in the preceding year and the
sources for financing it in the next year on an annual
basis, beginning April 1986 (paragraph 36);
(b) continue to increase the price of gas to achieve the
FY88 target. Thereafter, review with the Bank the
general strategy and the measures for inducing
consumers to use this scarce -esource more rationally
and mobilize resources for the development of the
subsector (paragraph 45);
(c) ensure the establishment of ENERCON by December 31,
1985 (paragraph 51);
(d) review with the Bank the means and the timetable for
reorgacizing the power subsector by June 30, 1986
(paragraph 52); and



-39-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) review with the Bank by June 30, 1986 the measures
needed to strengthen OCDC's managerial and self-
financing capabilities and the timetable for their
implementation (paragraph 53).
The following would be the conditions for loan effectiveness and triggering
the release of the first tranche (paragraph 70):
(a) introduction of a tariff increase, effective
July 1, 1985, which will enable WAPDA to finance
from internally-generated funds at least 40% of
investment program in FY86; and
(b) announcement of the new formula fcr determining
gas producer prices; and
The following would be the conditions for triggering the release of second
tranche (paragraph 70):
(a) introduction of a tariff increase, effective July 1,
1986, which will enable WAPDA to finance from
internally-generated funds, at least 40Z of its
investment program in FY87; and
(b) review of progress made in implementing the core
investment program in 1985/86 and the program for
1986/87 as well as the indicative programs for
19871/88 and 1988/89.



-40-                 Annex IV
Page 1 of 10
DRAFT LETTER OF POLICY
Dear Mr. Clausen:
1.      Since 1)78, Pakistan's economic performance has improved substan-
tially. During the period FY78-83, real GDP increased at an average annual
rate of about 6.3%. Much of this improvement was due to the rapid expansion
of the energy-consuming sectors such as industry and transport where real
value-added increased at an average annual rate of 10.4% and 16.5%, respec-
tively. This resulted in an unprecedented growth in the consumption of
energy, which increased at an average annual rate of 9.6%. In order to meet
this demand, the Government emphasized the accelerated development of domes-
tic energy resources. Although the domestic output of commercial energy
increased during this period at an average annual rate of about 6.2%, it was
insufficient to meet the growth of demand. As a result, the country con-
tinued to depend on imported energy which, together with the second round of
increases in oil prices in 1979, led to a rapid expansion of oil import bill
and large external payments deficits. The import bill for oil rose from
US$496 million in FY78, representing about 16Z of total imports, to
US$1,587 million, amounting to about 28% of total imports, in FY83.
2.      In recognition of the adverse effects of this dependence on imported
energy, particularly on the country's balance of payments, the Government
accorded high priority to structurally adjusting the energy sector during the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-FY88). This was to be achieved by:
Ca) accelerating the development of domestic energy resources to reduce the
country's dependence on imported oil; (b) promoting the efficient and
rational use of energy to meet the future demand at least-cost to the
economy; Cc) adjusting energy prices to reflect their economic costs and
thereby induce energy conservation and mobilize resources for the sector;
(d) streamlining the institutional setting of the sector to improve its
efficiency; and (e) increasing private sector participation to mobilize
resources for high-risk ventures and introduce new technologies. The Sixth
Pian's original allocation to public sector energy program amounted to
Rs 116.5 billion, representing an increase of about 120% in real terms over
the allocation under the Fifth Plan and about 38% of the total public sector
outlays.
3.      Despite the Government's adherence to the general strategy enunciated
above, adverse de.elopments including the decline in remittances and in the
country's export earnings have reduced the foreign exchange availability and
in turn, the resources needed for the implementation of the energy investment
program. As these resource constraints are likely to continue in the
immediate future, the Government has decided to implement a comprehensive
development strategy to address the issues impeding the development of the
major sectors of the economy. In the energy sector, the strategy involves a



-41-
Annex IV
Page 2 of 10
two-pronged approach. The first concentrates on the implementation of a core
program of high priority projects and of policy actions and institutional
reforms needed to mobilize sufficient revenues for executing these projects,
restrain the growth of demand for energy and enhance the project implementa-
tion capabilities of the entities in the sector. The second focuses on the
implementation of studies thac would provide the inputs needed for the
integrated development of the sector during the Seventh and Eighth Five-Year
Plans. The strategy for the energy sector is outlined below under the fol-
lowing three headings: development and investments; pricing and demand
management; and institutional development.
I. Development and Investments
Energy Development
4.      Hydropower:  Hydropower is Pakistan's most important source of energy
with the potential estimated at about 30,000 MW. Of this, only 2,897 MW has
been developed and 1928 MV are under consideration/construction. Another
3,600 MW will be added when the site at Kalabagh is fully developed.
Detailed engineering has been completed and preparations are underway for
implementing this scheme. The Government has also completed a study for
ranking the hydropower sites on the Indus River whose potential is greater
than 200 MW. Of these sites, Basha and Dasu, with an estimated potential of
about 2,500 MW and 2,700 MW respectively, are ranked first and second in the
order of priority for development after Kalabagh. The Government's long-term
plans for the development of the hydropower potential call for the exploita-
tion of the sites at Kalabagh, Basha and Dasu by the year 2020. Detailed
cost estimates are required for integrating the development of these sites
with the program for thermal generation and determine the optimal timing for
their implementation and commissioning. So far, cost data are only available
for Kalabagh, and only a feasibility study has been completed with the assis-
tance of consultants under financing from CIDA for Basha. The Government
will recruit consuLtants by December 31, 1986, to undertake the work covering
the detailed engineering and design for Basha. Similar work would be
initiated in due course for Dasu.
5.      Hydrocarbons:  Natural gas is Pakistan's main commercially exploited
hydrocarbon resource, with known reserves estimated at about 340 million toe,
comprising 271 million toe of proven reserves and 69 million toe of probable
reserves. Proven reserves of oil, by concrast, are modest, estimated at
about 13 million tons. In addition to the proven reserves, probable oil



-42-
Annex IV
Page 3 of 10
reserves at known fields are estimated at 3 million tons and possible reser-
ves at about 6 million tons. Therefore, the prospects for increasing domes-
tic production of oil and particularLy, gas are good. In view of the promis-
ing prospects for increasing the domestic output of hydrocarbons, the Govern-
ment has actively promoted the involvement of public and private sector
enterprises in exploration and development of oil and gas over the past two
years. As a result, exploration and development acceLerated. In 1984, a
record number (46) of exploratory and development welLs were spudded or
drilled and four new oil and two new gas fields were discovered. Seismic
surveys in the offshore areas, undertaken with the assistance of Norway, have
identified four promising structures for drilling and further evaluation.
The Government has finalized negotiations for offshore drilling of
oil-bearing structures located in the Indus basin. Agreement has also been
concluded with the private sector on producer prices for gas from existing
fields at Mari and Sui whi-h has resulted in satisfactory progress being made
in the development of this resource.
6.      Despite the progress made so far in the exploration and development
of hydrocarbons, new initiatives are needed to accelerate and expand the
activities in the subsector to minimize the anticipated shortfalls in gas
supply and achieve the Government's objectives of reducing Pakistan's depend-
ence on imported energy. This will require a national policy aimed at
increasing the level of private equity investment in both exploration and
development and balancing the public and private sector involvement. Such a
policy would require the delineation of the scope of the exploration and
development program to be undertaken by the Oil and Gas Development Corpora-
tion (OGDC) over the next three years. A specific annual work program con-
centrating on the high pricrity fields has been outlined by OGDC. For the
implementation of this program the Corporation would have to channel all
available resources, human, financial and technical. The setting of
priorities by OGDC has also made possible a parallel delineation of conces-
sion areas and fields, where private sector participation, both foreign and
local, in exploration and development would mobilize resources and the exper-
tise needed to accelerate development. This approach is viewed as the most
effective stra.egy not only for enhancing OGDC's capabilities but also for
mobilizing capital with minimnal risk to public resources. The Government
would review annually, starting April 30, 1986, the progress made in increas-
ing private sector participation and in impleienting OGDC's priority program.
7.      Coal:  Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at about 835 million
tons, of which only 107 million tons are proven. Of the total reserves,
about 80Z are held by the private sector and the remaining 20%, amounting to
165 million tons, is held by Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC),
a Government-owned entity. The size of the proven reserves in the private
and public sectors is believed to be substantially lower than the country's



-43-
Annex IV
Page 4 of 10
potential; however, at this point in time, very little is known of the geol-
ogy of coal in Pakistan. Consequently, the Government has decided to under-
take a systematic program for the formulation of a comprehensive coal
exploration strategy. The Geological Survey of Pakistan (GSP), and the US
Geological Survey have signed an agreement to undertake joint work, under
USAID financing, to identify priorities for exploration drilling and
geophysical analyses. The first phase of this work involves the assessment
of the reserves at Lakhra and Sonda-Thatta in 1985 and 1986 and the Salt
range and Makerwal reserves in 1987 and 1988. This work would identify the
concessions, whether held by the private or public sector, where further
exploration is justified. In addition, the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) is currently implementing a program, under World Bank
financing, aimed at firming up the extent of the reser-es at Dukki in
Baluchistan and preparing a feasibility study for mining the coal for power
generation. The Government is also assessing, under USAID financing, the
potential for stimulating increased private sector involvement in coal
production using the Lakhra reserves as a model. Should the results prove
favorable, the same model could be applied to other promising reserves. In
addition, the Government has outlined a two-phase program to promote the
accelerated development of coal. The first phase would involve a focused
study to be initiated by September 30, 1985 and completed by September 30,
1986, to identify the main operational constraints being experienced and
outline a plan of action for addressing them. The second phase would involve
the implementation of the plan of action which will be initiated by
December 31, 1986.
Energy Investment
8.      Core Investment:  The Government has outlined, in collaboration with
the Bank, a core investment program which encompasses high priority projects
to be completed or initiated during the next three years. The Government has
taken necessary steps to ensure that financial, human and technical resources
are earmarked to implement the high priority projects. The core investment
plan would amount to about Rs 50 billion to be divided among the subsectors
as follows: about Rs 36.5 billion for the power subsector, Rs 13 billion
for the petroleum subsector and about Rs 0.4 billion for the coal subsector.
To finance this core investment plan the Government would contribute Rs 8.7
billion from the Annual Development plan; internally generated funds from
various agencies in the energy sector would provide Rs 14.5 billion. The
remaining Rs 26.7 billion would be in the form of loans, grants and sup-
pliers' credits. Implementation of the core investment plan would be
monitored in detail annually. The first annual review would be in April
1986.
9.      Long-Term Development Plan for the Power Subsector:  The power sub-
sector accounts for almost two-thirds of the overall investment in energy and
one-fifth of the public investment. In view of the resource constraints
p  i



-44-
Annex IV
Page 5 of 10
presently being experienced and given the substantial financial requ.rements
of the subsector, there is an urgent need to rationalize the investments in
the power subsector. This would require the formulation of a Long-term
development plan which identifieo the scale and timing of investments in
order to meet the forecast demand at least cost to the economy. As a first
step, the Government has developed, with the assistance of the Bank, an
interim least cost development program for the power subsector. It provides
a list of key projects to be initiated or completed over the Sixth and
Seventh Five-Year Plans, which were included in the core investment program
to be implemented during the period FY86-FY88. In order to finalize this
interim plan, extensive information on the operation of the power subsector,
hydrology and pattern of electricity cuias=.ption, all of which is currently
being prepared, would have to be incorporated. The Government intends to
formulate a least cost national plan for power based on more detailed data to
replace the interim program. Thig program will be completed and reviewed
with the Bank by December 31, 1986.
10.     Long-Term Development Plan for the Petroleum Products Subsector:
Constraints in the supply and delivery of petroleum products are becoming
a major impediment to the development of the energy sector. Inadequate port
handling facilities for the delivery of oil and petroleum products, shortages
in the storage facilities throughout the country, and a serious imbalance
between the production and demand for petroleum products, particularly
up-country, are expected to become more pronounced from here on, unless major
investments are undertaken to ensure that future demand is met at least cost.
The Government will initiate by November 1, 1985 and complete by March 31,
1986 a study for the rationalization of the infrastructure for supply and
delivery of petroleum products. The purpose of the study is to toutline a
least cost development plan for the petroleum subsector which takes into
account the plans for the increased use of both domestic and imported coal
for power generation, the new mid-country power plants to come on st:eam and
the prospects for increasing the production of domestic oil and natural gas.
II. Pricing and Demand Management
Pricing
11.     Consumer Gas Prices:  Since the discovery of natural gas in Pakistan
in 1952, its consumption has increased rapidly. By 1981, consumption started
to surpass supply. As a result, the Government decided to introduce measures
aimed at restraining the growth of demand and stimulate increased production.
On the supply side, a new cost-plus formula was adopted to induce greater
participation by the private sector in exploration for gas. On the demand
side, the Government set as its goal the gradual increase in the domestic
price of natural gas to reach two-thirds of the border price of fuel oil by



-45-
Annex IV
Page 6 of 10
1988. Consumer price of gas has increased in nominal terms by 125Z between
1981 and 1984. This brought the average domestic price of gas in December
1984 to about US$67/toe, representing 38% of the border price of fuel oil of
US$175ttoe. The Government will continue the increase in the price of gas to
achieve the FY88 target. Thereafter, the Government wilL review with the
Bank the general strategy and further measures for inducing consumers to use
this scarce resource more rationally and mobilize resources for the develop-
ment of the subsector.
12.     In addition, the Government commissioned in 1981 a study aimed at
outlining a strategy for balancing the forecast demand and supply. This
study was completed in 1982 and its results were used to set a framework for
the Cas Development Plan which is now being implemented. Significant new gas
resources are now likely to be available from Pirkoh, DhurnaL, the Badin
concession and Dakhni and the results of drilling on the Loti gas prospect
will be known soon. Accordingly, the Government has decided to initiate by
no later than December 31, 1985: (a) a study to revise the Gas Development
Plan to determine the optimal supply and utilization pattern for the next
five years; and (b) a study to outline a demand management policy aimed at
improving the efficiency of gas supply and consumption. The results of these
studies would be reviewed with the Bank by December 31, 1986.
13.     Gas Producer Prices:  As stated above, the Covernment introduced in
1981 a cost plus formula for setting producer prices aimed at stimulating the
interest of foreign and local firms in accelerating their exploration and
development activity in Pakistan. In order to further stimulate the interest
of the private sector to undertake exploration and development in the
country, the Government has outlined a new framework for gas producer prices.
The key elements of this are: (a) the price paid to the producer for
pipeline quality gas will equal 66% of the international price of fuel oil at
main consumption centers, adjusted for the transport cost of gas from the
field to main consumption centers, less a percentage discount; (b) the mag-
nitude of the discount is to be negotiated and agreed in the Concession
Agreements before commencing exploration. The discount will vary from area
to area and will take into account, among other things, the geological risk
and location of the concession, anticipated exploration and development costs
and oil market conditions and cost of production. It is the Government's
intention to negotiate discounts which achieve the basic objective of
stimulating accelerated exploration by private investors; (c) the new price
formula will apply to all non-associated gas from concessions signed on or
after September 30, 1985. The Government intends to make an announcement of
the new policy by June 1985, and widely publicize it within oil industry
circles. Furthermore, the Government intends to keep the operation of this
formula under review.



-46-
Annex IV
Page 7 of 10
14.     Electricity Pricing:  Resource availability for power development
has not been as high as planned by the Government. This resulted in substan-
tial reductions in the development program of WAPDA over the past few years.
To address this shortcoming a three-year core investment program amounting to
Rs 30 billion has been set for the remainder of the Sixth Five-Year Plan
(FY86-FY88). Henceforth, the Government intends to adjust tariffs using the
formula agreed with the Bank in the loan agreement for WAPDA III Project, to
ensure that at least 40% of the investment expenditures called for under the
core investment program are financed from WAPDA's internal sources.
15.     Coal Pricing:  PMDC is the single largest producer of coal in Pakis-
tan, with about 15% of total anrnual production. Due to a number of opera-
tional and financial constraints, PMDC's costs of production are substan-
tially above those of the private sector. Although prices are not fixed by
the Government, PMDC, because of its size, acts as a price setter in the coal
market. As a first step, to promote the use of lower value products for
higher value hydrocarbons, the Government intends to allow the importation of
coal for power generation around Karachi, provided such imports are deemed
economic. Currently a prefeasibility study for coal handling is also under-
way under financing from the World Bank and CIDA. In addition, in order to
improve the efficiency of PMDC and, in turn reduce its cost of production,
the Government will initiate by November 1, 1985, and complete by Novem-
ber 30, 1986 a study that would: (a) outline a strategy for corporate
restructuring and technical improvements to promote the more efficient opera-
tion of mines in the public sector and (b) provide a basis for reviewing the
role of the public sector in coal mining.
Demand Management
16.     One of the objectives of the Sixth Five-Year Plan is to promote the
efiicient and rational use of energy. The Government has already taken
several important initiatives to rationalize energy consumption including:
(a) steps to enhance the energy efficiency of the NRL refinery, a major
energy consumer; (b) a survey of energy consumption in public sector
industries to be followed in 1986-87 with 20 energy audits and assessments in
the cement, steel, fertilizer, chemiciL and other industries in the public
sector industries which are designed to define the potential for energy
conservation, leading to investments resulting in substantial reductions in
industrial energy consumption; (c) studies designed to reduce losses in the
power transmission and distribution networks; (d) the identification of
thermal power plants whose efficiency could be improved through rehabilita-
tion and retrofitting; and (e) the for...Ulation of a least-cost development
plan for the power subsector that would set priorities for investments in
generation, and ensure the optimal use of primary energy resources. These
initiatives, however, are but a first step in the formulation of a comprehen-
sive strategy for rationalizing the consumption of energy. If the objective
of energy conservation is to be achieved, a more integrated and comprehensive



-47-
Annex IV
Page 8 of 10
strategy is needed. Toward this end, as is indicated below, the Government
intends to establish by December 31, 1985 an Energy Conservation Center
(ENERCON), with the assistance of USAID. Tn addition, to reaffirm its com-
mitment to energy conservation, the Government will initiate a program of
audits by November 1, 1985 in at least 20 of the largest energy consuming
plants in the public sector industries, to be performed by local and foreign
consultant firms and completed by June 30, 1987.
III. Institutional Development
Operational Autonomy
17.     The two most important agencies in the energy sector, WAPDA and OGDC,
need cc:siderable strengthening and greater fiscal and managerial autonomy.
The Government intends to review the means for reorganizing the power subsec-
tor. The possibility of separating distribution of electricity from WAPDA
and assigning WAPDA with the responsibility of generation and transmission of
electricity for the entire country will be examined. This would include
looking into the possibility of taking over the generation and the primary
transmission of KESC by WAPDA and restricting the KESC operation to bulk
purchase from WAPDA and distribution in the Karachi area. Additionally, the
possibility of handing over distribution to private sector/provinces in the
rest of the country would be considered along with the possibility of creat-
ing a separate authority for power distribution. In order to assist WAPDA in
formulating a plan for the reorganization of it's distribution department,
consultants have been recruited under USAID financing.
18.     The Sixth Plan envisages an expanded role for OGDC whose investment
activity is expected to triple as compared to the Fifth Plan. OGDC's finan-
cial position is expected to improve considerably in FY85 as a result of:
(a) the Government's decision to allow OGDC to retain its earnings and the
setting of oil and gas prices similar to those available to the private
sector in adjacent areas; and (b) anticipated increases in production from
the Pirkoh gas field and the Tando Alam oil field. Notwithstanding the
improved self financing outlook for OGDC, the key constraints to OGDC's
expanded activities will be directly related to its ability to recruit and
retain qualified professional sLaff, and to operate as a commercial concern.
The Government intends to take further steps to strengthen OCDC's managerial
and technical capabilities and to move towards financial self reliance.
AccordingLy, the Government intends to review the measures needed to move
OGDC effectively and gradually toward that objective.



-48-
Annex IV
Page 9 of 10
Energy Planning
19.     In recognition of the increasing importance of the energy sector in
sustaining the country's growth momentum, COP has decided to strengthen its
energy planning capability. Toward that end, an office of Energy Planning
(ENERPLAN) has been established in the Ministry of Planning and DeveLopment
under financing from USAID.  It is mandated to collect, compile and analyze,
on an ongoing basis, all relevant data on the energy sector and integrart
them with the country's annual, Five-Year and long-term development plans
using the most recent analytic and modelling techniques to enable the Govern-
ment to identify priorities and evaluate resource requirements to support
effective policy formulation and investment planning. ENERPLAN, which is
divided into two groups, one for developing an energy data system and the
other for data analysis, is headed by a Managing Director who was recently
appointed. It will be administered by an inter-ministerial Energy Policy
Board. ENERPLAN will be staffed entirely by Pakistani personnel who will be
assisted during the first four years by consultants financed by USAID. In
order to ensure that ENERPLAN's activities would provide the input needed for
effective policy decision, and integrated energy sector and macroeconomic
planning, the Government would periodically review its scope of work jointly
with the WorLd Bank, USAID and ADB.
Energy Conservation
20.     There is an increasing awareness in Government circles and, to a
lesser extent, in the private sector as to the potential benefits of energy
conservation. As mentioned above, a number of conservation activities have
been undertaken in the recent past, notable among them being the energy
conservation survey of public sector industrial concerns. However, as one
would expect in the initial stages of development of such a program, these
efforts are proceeding piecemeal. To be effective, conservation activities
need to be coordinated. It is for this p.:rpose that the Government intends
to establish ENERCON, which will be a critical f_'rst step. The center will
serve as the focal point for all conservation activities and its main respon-
sibilities will be to formulate comprehensive and integrated national energy
conservation programs covering industry, power, transport, agriculture,
households and commercial and residential buildings; plan and initiate energy
conservation actions; outline policy guidelines; develop a data base; support
training activities and private research; undertake development and demon-
stration, as well as public information activities; and monitor the implemen-
tation of conservation programs of various public and private entities.
ENERCON would also mobilize resources to finance investments in energy con-
servation measures such as energy audits, feasibility studies, instrumenta-
tion purchases, retrofitting, fuel substitition and technological changes,
and support these with fiscal and other incentives. A detailed action
program for ENERCON is currently being prepared with the assistance of the
Bank and USAID.  The center is expected;to formulate a comprehensive national



-49-
Annex IV
Page 10 of 10
conservation program within about one year. Administratively, ENERCON will
work in close collaboration with ENERPLAN. The center will be headed by a
director and manned with long and short term expatriate advisers and Pakis-
tani professional and support staff. The work program of ENERCON will be
guided by a supervisory board composed of representatives of federaL and
provincial governments and the private sector. The core activities of ENER-
CON are expected to be financed by the Government. As a first step, ENERCON
will identify in 1985, on the basis of a private sector-wide energy consump-
tion survey, aL least 15 of the largest energy-consuming plants in the
private sector industries for audits to be performed by local and foreign
consultant firms. All efforts will be made to complete these by December 31,
1987.
Manpower Development
21.     To ensure that Pakistani personnel are able to continue the recently
initiated energy planning and conservation activities, the Government has
implemented a manpower development program. With the assistance of consult-
ants financed by USAID, the Government will conduct a manpower needs assess-
ment to determine: (a) the range of technical, management, and analytical
skills needed to accomplish the goals of energy programs; (b) the present
capabilities of locaL institutions to meet these needs; (c) the priorities to
increase skills to meet these needs; and (d) the actions necessary to improve
existing programs for this purpose, together with the cost and time require-
ments. Based on the results of the needs assessment, ENERPLAN would organize
and conduct in-country short courses and seminars on selected topics, utiliz-
ing highly qualified professionals drawn from the public and private sectors;
identify further options for overseas training; and pursue strategies to
upgrade and enhance training programs in Pakistan for improving the planning,
management, and technical implementation of energy sector development.
Sincerely yours,
Mahbub-ul-Haq
Minister for Finance
Government of Pakistan



Strlatla for the Develonment of the Eneray Sector
ISSUES                                                A0JgMS _TU eN                                CTIONS TO BE TAKEN
D8VELOPHENT AND INVU TMENT
Energy Development
1.  fvdro:  GOP's long-ters plan              GOP comuissioned Nuntreal Engineering in                In order to ensure thst the hydra site.
calls for the accelerated                  1980, under financing from CIDA, to evaluate           at Ealsbagh, Bamba and Da.u are comic-
development of the country's              hydro sitem larger than 200 1k in size on the    sioned and brought on stream at the optimal
hydropover potential; however.             Indus River and rant them in order of economic   time, minimal cost and in full integration
the larger sites have as yet              merit for development.  A total of 26 sites            vith the program for thermal generation,
to be adequately evaluated in             were inventoried excluding Kalabagh and Basab          GOP has agreed with the Dank under tbe
order to ensure that these are            which are ranked first and second in priority    proposed loan to recruit consultants by
brought on stream at the optimal          of development.  The study concluded that only   December 31, 1986 to initiate a detailed
time, m 'nival cost and in fu:l!          11 of the sites inventoried could be exploited   site investigation, engineering and cost
integraton with the program for           economically, with the site at Daou receiving    estimates for Saabs.  GOP vould also initiate
thermal generation.                       the highest ranking.  The results of this               in due course similar work for Dasu.
study were reviewed with the Dank.
GOP has completed the detailed engineering for                                                                        o
the site at Kalabagh and preparations are under-
way for initiating the implementation of this
scheme during the Seventh Plan.
A feasibility study has also been completed for
Basha with the assistance of consultants financed
by CIDA.
2.   ydrogAbgni:  Exploration and              GOP's active involvement over the past two years In order to further expand the exploration and
development activity is inadequate    has resulted in a record number (46) of explo-   development program for hydrocarbons, GOP has
to achieve GOP c objective of mini-   ratory and development wells being spudded or    outlined a national policy which delineates
mizing the anticipated shortfalls in  drilled and in the discovery of four new oil                the scope of the exploration and development
the supply of hydrocarbons, particu-  and two new gas fields.                                     program to be implemented by OGDC over the
larly gas, and reducing the country's                                                             next three years (PY86-FYB8) and identifies the
dependence on imported energy.            Seismic surveys undertaken in the offshore              approacb to be followed in attracting private
areas, witb the assistance of Norway, have             sector participants, both foreign and local.
identified promirsing structures for drilling         COP has agreed under the proposed loan to
and further evaluation.                                imple ment the core investment program for
OGDC involving the following:  the development                 'k
Negotiations have been completed for offshore    of Toot, Pirkob, Dakhni and Tando Alrm; salIer                       o 
drilling of oil-bearing structures located in    projects such as Rhodo and Sari/undi in
the Indue basin.                                       strongly gas proven areas; non-operating interest
an minority partner in ongoing and new joint                   0
GOP has enabled OGDC to improve its performance  ventures; and a modest-sized exploration progra_                    hP
by allowing it to retain a  larger share of its   which gives priority to potentially high yielding                   co



energy, but because of resource and imple-           prospects in the i mediate vicinity of the Tando
mentation constraints the Corporation is             Alam discovery and isportant gas prospects such
unlikely to achieve the targets set in the           as Loti.  The core investment progra  includes
sixth Plan.                                          exploration and development investments ihbch are
justified from Pakistan's viewpoint and are
GOP's effort  hbave also resulted in doubling        potentially attractive to private investors, but
the domestic output of oil,                          which either cannot, or should not be undertaken
solely by OCDC to avoid diverting its resources
GOP has concluded agrpementa on producer prices  from its o-n core activities or unduly risking
for gas from existing fields at Mari and 6ui         public resources.  It is for these investments
and consequently satisfactory progress is being  that renewed effort should be made to mobilize
made in developiog this resource from these          private s*ctor capital to supplement OCDC' eft,rt
fields.                                               to attract private ezploration investment in open
areas and consider "farm-ins" to OGDC average on
appropriate terms. In particular, the Coverom*nt
plans to undertake new efforts to meek joint
venture partners, especially in areas whete gas
discoveries have already been sade, once the new
gas producer price formula is announced.
3.  Coe:  Estimates of the quantity           The Geological Survey of Pakistan (GaP) and the  In order to promote the accelerated development
and quality of the reserves are          U.S. Geological Survey, under financing from          of coal, GOP has agreed with the Bank under the
not based on a systematic evalua-        USAID, have signed an agreesent to formulate a   proposed loan, to initiate a two-pbased prograt.
tion of the resource.                    comprehensive coal exploration strategy which    The first would involve a highly focused study
would identify priorities for exploration,            to be initiated by September 30, 1985 and completed
drilling and geophysical analysis.  It involves  by September 30, 1986, to identify the main opera-
the assessment of the reserves at Lnkhra and         tional constraints being experienced and outline a
Sonda-Thatta in 1985 and 1986, and the Salt          plan of action for addressing them.  The secood phase,
Range and Wakerwal reserves in 1987 and 1988.    vould involve the implementation of the plan of actton
vhich will be initiated by Deember 31, M9L.
VAPDA is currently implementing a program, under
Bank financing, aimed at firming up the extent of
the reserves at Dukki to eventually prepare a
feasibility study for mining the coal for pover
generation.
GOP is also assessing, under USAID financing,
the potential for stimulating increased private
sector investment in coal production using the                                                                    awl
Lakhra as a model.  Should the results prove
favorable, GOP would consider'applying the
same model to other promising areas.
I.'



Enerly Invaotmento
4.  Core Investent     Absence of             COP prepared a sector study in 19f2, with              The studies to be initiated under the proposed
progrm for the integration of             the assistance of cone  tanta, which provided    ESL together with the strengthening of energy
subsectoral inveetments has               the basis for outlining the targets for the            planning capabilities. wbicb is being financed by
resulted in the initiation of a           energy component of the Sixth Plan.  This              USAID, would provide the inputs needed to identify
larger number of projects than            study, however, did not critically evaluate            the bigb priority projects and pTomote the integrated
could be implemented with the             the resource requirement of the investment             development of the subsectors.  In the interim. COP
available resources.                      program for energy.                                    haa outlined a core investment progrm  of bigb priority
projects to be initiated or completed during the period
FYS6-FYBS. It ir designed to miniuize the shortfalle
energy during this period and ensure that slippages
that are expected to occur do not become an impedimnt
to the implementation of the Seventb Plan. Thb Bankhbas
reviewed the projects included in the core esentment
program, their financial requirements and the sources
of financing and bas found theae to be generally satis-
factory. In order to ensure the timely implementation
of the core invest-ent progrm, GOP has agreed witb the
Bank under the proposed loan to reviev in detail the
performance of the program in preceding year and the
sourcee  for financing it in the next year on an annual
basis beginning April 1986.
5.  Power Subeector:  Rationalize the         GOP has developed, under financing from UNDP           In order to formulate a more robust National Least Cost
investments in the power subsector    with the Baok as the executing agency, an                  Plan, GOP bas agreed vitb the lank under the proposed
to meet future demand at least cost.  interim least-cost plan for the power sub-                 loan to incorporate the recently complied inforast- n on
lector based on available data.  It formed            the operation of the power subsector, hydrology and pattern
the basis for the identification of projects          of electricity consumption in the interim least cost plan.
included in the core investment program for           This national least cost plan wili be completed and reviewed
FY86-FYSa.                                            with the lank by Deeember 31, 196.
WAPDA, with the sasistance of consultants             VAPDA has agreed with the Bank under the Fi th Power Project
financed by USAID, in currently preparing a            to recruit consultants, by no later than Sepcember 30, 1985,
comprehensive national rural electrification          on terms and conditions satisfactory to the lank, to undertake
master plan wh eh is expected to be completed    a study for the i-plementation of a system for the collection,
by March 1985.  The lank would reviev its             storage and retrieval of data on the power system; the study
vill be completed and reviewed in consultation with the lank,
by no later than December 31, 1986.
6.  Petroleum Products SubsectL                                                                      GOP has agreed witb the Bank under the proposed loan to
Constraints in the supply and                                                                    initiate by November 1, 1985 and complete by Mareb 31.
delivery of petroleum products                                                                   1986 a study for the rationalization of the infrastructure
are becoming a major impediment                                                                  for the supply and delivery of petroleum products.
to the development of the energy
sector.
o  C



PRICING AND DEAD MANAGMDIT
Pricing
7.  Gas Consumer Price:  The consumer         In 1981, COP agreed vith the Bank under SAL 1,   GOP boo reaffirmed its comitment to  be Bonk under
price of gas is inadequate to             to raise the consumer price of gas to two-            the proposed loan to raise the price ot  o#3 to
restrain the growth of demand.            thirde the border price of fuel oil by FY88.          achieve the 7Y8B target.  Thereafter,  Oi' vill
Since then its price has been increased in            review with the Bank the general strategy and other
rupee nominal terms by 1251, vhich raised the    measures for inducing consumers to use this scarce
average domestic price of gas in December 1984   resource more rationally and mobilize resources for
to 391 of fuel oil parity,                            the development of the xubsector.
S.  Gas Producer Prices:  GOPs gas            In 1981, GOP adopted a new cost plus formula           To stimulate the interest of the private aector, COP
producer pricing formula is               for setting producer prices to stimulate the          has outlined nev framework for gas producer priCse.
unacceptable to private                   interest of foreign and local firms in accel-    Its key elements are:  (a) the price paid to the
investors.                                erating exploration and development activity          producer for pipeline quality gas will equal 66b  of
in Pakistan.  This formula, however, has not          the international price of fuel oil at main
elicited the response hoped for from the              consumption centers. adjusted for the transport cost
private sector.                                       of gas from the field to main consumption centers,
less a percentage discount; (b) the msanitude of the               %A
discount is to be negotiated and agreed in Concec-                 La
sion Agreements before commencing ezploratou. The
discount will vary from area to area and will take
into account, among otber tbings, the goolv4ical rTis
and location of the concession, anticipated explora-
tion and development costs, oil market conditiogs
and cost of production. It is COP's intention to
negotiate discounts with the basic objective of
stimulating accelerated exploration by private
investors; and (c) the nev price formula will apply to
all non-associated gas from concessions signed on or
after September 30, 1985. GOP has agreed witb the Bank
under the porposed loan to make an announcesent of the
nev policy by June 1985, and widely publicize it within
oil industry circles. GOP intendc to keep the operation
of this formula under reviev&
9.  Blectricity Price:  WAPDA's efforts  COP has agreed vith the Bank under the Fourth    The introduction of a trnriff increase, effective                          a
to mobilize resources through             WAPDA Power Project, vhich was presented to           July 1, 1985, which will enable WAPDA to finance 
taritfs have fallen short of the          the Loard on March 7, 1985. to link future             at least 402 of its investment progrm in IFYO from             o 
targets set by GOP.                       increases in tariffs to the three year core            internally-generated funds, vould be a condition of
investment program set at Res 30 billion, in          effectiveness of the proposed ESL sand VAPDA T.
accordance witb formula outlined in the Loan 
Agreement for WAPDA III project. GOP has also
agreed under YAPDA rv to hencefortb adjust



tariffs to ensure that at least 402 of the
expenditures colled for under the core invest-
ment program are financed from WAPDAsc internal
sourcec.
10. Coal Pricing:  Structural tmbalances                                                           GOP has agreed with the Dank under the proposed loan
between sources of supply and location                                                          to allow the use of imported coal for powrt genera-
of consumers and bottlenecks in real                                                           tion around Karachi, provided that sueb imports are
transport necessitate transportation                                                           deemed economic.  A prefeasibility study, under
of coal by trucks, which raises the                                                            financing from the Bank and CIDA is currently
price of coal to final consumers                                                               underway for coal handling.
substantially.
GOP, has agreed with the Bank under the proposed loam
to initiate a study that would: (a) outline a strategy
for corporate restructuring and technical improements
to promote the sore efficient operation of mines in the
public sector; and (b) provide a basis for reviewing the
role of the public sector in coal mining.
WAPDA has agreed with the Bank under the proposed Fitth
Power Project to recruit consultants, no later than
June 30, 1986 on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, to undertake a feasibility study and detailed
engiDeering for a power generating complex at Karachi,
based mainly on imported coal, and prepare the bidding
docents for the first phase of this emplex; the
work would be completed and reviewed with the Dpok
by no later than December 31, 1987.
11. Demand ILanaaement:  Despite short-    GOP, under Bank financing is currently imple-    In order to reaffirm  its ceomitnent to conservation
falls in the supply of energy, in-    menting a program for isproving the efficiency   COP has agreed with the Dank under the proposed loan
sufficient attention has been            of the  IRL refinery and a fertiliser plant.          to initiate a progrm of energy audits by Novmber 1,
accorded to demand management,                                                                  1985 in at least 20 of the largest energy comamuing
VAPDA is preparing, witb the assistence of            plants in the public sector industries to be performed
consultants financed by UIAID, a program for         by local and foreign consultant firma and completed by
the expansion and rehabilitation of the              June 30, 1987.
distribution syatem. Specifically it would
focus on:  energy loss analysis, comprehensive   GOP has agreed with the Dank under the proposed loan               Z I
long and ahort terms progream  comodities,            to intiste by no later than Decmber 31, 1985,  (a) a*   I
establishing criteria for selection of feeders,  study to revise the optimal supply and utilization                 lb
work order system, technical reorganixation of   pattern for the neat five years; and (bh  a study to
the staff, plan for urban and rural expansion,   outline a demand mnagement policy aimed at improving    o 
distribution system sapping and updating,             the efficiency of gas supply and conao.ption.  lbe
criteria, for selecting villages, connector           results of these studies would be reviewed with the          e
practices, application of single phsee               Dank L. Deember 31, 1986.
distribution, distribution eyste- overhead



protection, load management and voltage regula- VAPDA has agreed with the lonk under the proposed
tion and service reliability.  The stuey is          Fifth Power Project to recruit consultants, no later
expected to be completed bv Mareh 1985.  The         December 31, 1985 on ters and conditions satisfactory
Bank would review and coment on the results          to the Bank, to undertake a load Treearch  and load
and vould seek agreement from GOP on priority    demand manihement study which would be completed and
investment, and financial requirements.              reviewed witb the lank, by no later than June 30. 1987.
USAIJ is also financing a study thet would
identify thermal plants whose efficiency could
be ipro .d through rehabilitation and retro-
fitting.
WAPDA bee agreed under the Fourth Power Project
to Initiate by July 31, 1985, and complete by
July 31, 1986, a study aimed at identifying the
sources of energy losses in the transmission
system, quantifying such losses, determining the
optiou level of much losses, and producing a
detailed work and investment program to achieve
such optimum levels.
GOP bas also completed a survey of energy
consumption by public sector industries.
IHBT1lDTIOUAL DEVELOPI4UT
12. Onerational AutoguoM     The two most   'AYDA hba  recruited consultants, under USAID         GOP has agreed under the proposed loan to review
important asencies in the energy         financing, to prepare an action plan designed    the ueans and the timetable for reorganizing
sector, WAPDA and OGDC, need conai-   to improve the operational efficiency of VAPDA   the power subsector by June 30, 1986.
derable strengthening and greater        through its reorganiZAtioL.  It Will focus on
fiscal and managerial autonomy,          assessing the viability of assigning to VAPDA
the responsibility for generation and trans-
mission and creating a new decentralized
holding company for the distribution of
electricity through seei-autonomous agencies.
It would also design a comprehensive distri-
bution training program, and establish a
training institute.
OGDC's financial position is expected to             GOP has agreed vitb the lank under the proposed           ii
improve considerably due to:  (a) GOP's              loan to review by June 30, 1986 the measures needed   c
decision to allow it to retain a larger              to strengtben OGDC's managerial and self-financing
hare of its earnings; and (b) anticipated            capabilities and the tisetable for their implo-
increases in the production of oil and gas.         mentation.
GOP intends to take advantage of che improved



financial position of OCDC to move towards
strengthening its managerisl and self-financing
capabilities.
13. Enerty Planning:  Energy planning         GOP has established an Office of Energy Plan-    In order to ensure that EDERPLM's activities would
and coordination is inadequate,           ning (E2ERPLAN) in the Ministry of Planning and  provide the input needed for effective policy
Development under financing from USAID.  It is   decisions, and integrated energy sector and macro-
mandated to collect, compile and analyze, on an  oc'.nomic planning, COP has agreed with the Bank under
ongoing baisua, all relevant dat o   the energy   the proposed loan, to review  on an annual basis,
sector and integrate them with the courktry's         beginning April 30, 1986, itb scope of work joinL.7
annual, Five-Year and lorp-,teru development          vith the Bank, USAID and ADS.
plans using the most recent analytic and
modelling techniques to enable the Government
to identify priorities and evaluate resource
requirements to support effective policy formu-
lation and investment planning. EYERPLAN,
which is divided into two groups, one for deve-
loping an energy data systm and the other for
data analysis, is headed by a Managing Director
who was recently appointed.  It vill be admin-
istered by an interi-_inisterial Energy Policy
Board. ENERPLAN vill be staffed entirely by
Pakijtani personnel who will be assisted during
the first four years by consultants financed by
USAID.
To ensure that Pakistani personnel are able
to continue the recently initiated energy
planning and conservation activities, the Govt.
has implemented, under financing from USIAD,
a manpower development program.
14. Eperay Conservation:  Absence of a                                                               In order to coordinate the conservation activities
comprehensive and coordinated                                                                    and make then more effective, COP intends to estab-
strategy for rationalizing energy                                                                lish a National Energy Conservation Center (DIUC)
consumption.                                                                                     under financing fro- the Dank and USAID. T'e Center
will serve as the focal point for all conservatiom
activities and its sain responsibilities will be to
plan energy conservation actions, formulate policy
guidelines, develop a data base, support training
activities and private research, undertake develop-           IV
ment and donustration, as vell as public informa-             as
tion activities, and mcuitor the implementation of             o V3
conservation progrems of various public and private            %X
ent'tles.  A detailed action progrm for EuCin  is              o C
currently being prepared with the assistance of the            Mt
Bank and USAID.  The Center is ezpected to formiulate          on



a comprehensive national conservation program vitbin
about one year. At a first atep, GOP bas agreed witb
the Bank under the proposed loan to identity in 1985
at least 15 of the largest energy-caustming plants
in the private aector for audita to be performed by
local and foreign consultant firra. All efforts vould
be made to complete these by December 31. 1987.
In
%J
co



-58-                            ANNEX VI
Page l 'of 8
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
CORE INVESTISNT PRORAM - 198S/86 - 1987/88
(RUPEES MILLION)
1985186                  1986/87                   1987/88                   TOTAL
SUBSECTOR    LCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
POWER
VAPWA          5382    3717    9099    6214    3599    9813    6764    4324   11088   18360   11640   30000
KESC            647      294      941    1143      784    1927    2065    1530    3595    3855    2608    6463
SUBTOTAL           6029    4011   10040    7357    4383   11740    8829    5854   14683   22215   14248   36463
PErROLEUM
OGDC            1201    2197    3398      912    1409    2321    1368    2008    3376    3481    5614    9095
SNGPL            932     552    1484      717      345    1062      207     --       207    1856      897    2753
KgC              115      61      176     141       53     194      166      26      192     422      140     562
PSO              296      68      364     -       -        --       --      --       --      296       68     364
SUBTOTAL          2544    2878    5422    1770    1807    3577    1741    2034    3775    6055    6719   12774
CrIAL
PHDC              25       8       33      68       78     146       93     101      194     186      187     373
CONSERVATION         61      69      130      61       62     123      --      --       -       122      131     253
GRAND TOTAL        8659    6966   15625    9256    6330   15586   10663    7989   18652   28578   21285   49863
(US $ MILLION)
1985/86                  1986/87                   1987/88                   TOTAL
SUBSECMOR    LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGI  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
PO'WER
IIAPDA          351      243     594      406     235      641     442      282     724    1199      760    1960
KESC             42       19      61       75       51     126      135     100     235      252     170      422
SUBTOTAL            394     262      656    4U1      286      767      577     382     959    1451      931    2382
PETIROLEUtM
OCDC              78     144     222       6f,     92      152       89     131     221      227     367      594
SNGPL            61       36      97       46      23       69       14       0      14      121      59      180
KGC                8       4      11       it        3      13       11       2      13       28       9       37
PSG               19       5       24       0        0       0        0       0       0       19       4       24
SUBTOTAL            166     188      354     116      118     234      114     133     247      395     439      834
COAL
PMDC               2       1       2        4       5       10       6        7      13       12      12       24
CONSERVATION          4       4        8       4        4       8       -O       O        0       8        9      17
GRAND TOTAL         566     455    1021      605     413    101S       696     522    1218    1867    1390    3257
.  .s ow  .....                                .. .....  ._- wo_ .... .. ......_o   _ s--- a  a  n   o  . _ . s_.__    *..



PAIBSTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
W&TER AND POWER DIVELOPHIUT AUTRIOlTY .
CORE INVESThINT PROGRAH - 1985/86 - 1987188
(RUPEES MILLION)
1985/86                  1986/87                   1987/88                   TOTAL
PROJECT            LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOIRICN  TOTAL   LOCAL  POUIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FORuIG   TOTAL
Generat ion
Guddu 4                          325      46      371       96      23      119     ---        5        5     421       74     495
Guddu CS                         250     430      680      400     500      900      200     350      550     530    1280    2130
Jainhoro 250 MW                   93      122     215      400     614    1014      605      480    1085    1098    1216    2314
Quetta 35 11W                      6        4      10      ---     ---      ---     ---      --       --        6        4      10
Iot Addu 400 HU                  852    1050    1902       288     222      510     ---      ---     -       1140    1272    2412
Tarbela (9 & 10)                  20       16      36      ---     ---      ---      ---      -       ---      20       16      36
Tarbela (11 to 14)               514      396     910    1028      895    1923    1153    1700    2853    2695    2991    5686
Gilgit Hydel                      40        8      48       35        5      40       35       5       40     110       18     128
P &L I of Major Hydsl             50       20      70       61       14      75       40      15       55     151.      49     200
Duki Coal(PC I & 11)               5       20      25       10      18       28       17      13       30      32       51      83
Low Head Uydel                    32      28       60       76      54      130     205       95     300      313      177     490
multau (1 to 3) 600 nW             8        2      10      130       20     150      250     100      350     388      122     S10
Ja_horo -2  210 KW               ---     ---      ---      ---     ---      ---      30       20      50       30       20      50
Lakhr. Coal 300 NV               ...          ---          ---     ---      ---       90      45      135      90       45     135
Chitral Phase II                   4        1                5     ---        S     ---      -       -          9        1      10
Diesel Gilgit 3 HW                16        9      25      ---     ---      ---     ---      _--     __        16        9      25
Subtotal Generation             2215    2152    4367    2529    2365    4894    2625    2828    5453    7369    7345   14714
Transmis ion
TUrbela-faisalbad 500-kV          50      43       93      ---     ---      -       ---      ---     ---       50      43       93
Faisalabad-Jamshoro 500-kV       418     636    1054       220     166      386      102      90      192     740      892    1632
Faisalabad-Sahiwal 220-kV         60       70     130       38      14       52     ---      ---     -         98      84      182
load Despatch Center              43     116      159      122      48      170     143      144     287      308     308      616
Lehore-Janehoro 500-kV            30      20       SO      1SO     150      300     288      300     S88      465     470      938
Tarbela-Lehore 500-kV             14       13      27       50      53      103     170      200      370     234     266      500
Guddu-Sibi-Quetta 220-kV         ---     ---      ---       10       2       12     100       20     120      110      22      132
Mandan-Peshawar 220-kV            47       90     137       78      27      105       18       2       20     143      119     262
nodu-Xuabdar 220-kV               84        4      a8      416      20      436     108       20     128      608      44      652
Ludv.-Daud 220/500-kV            ---     ---      ---        6       4       10      30       10     '40       36       14      50
-_____                     -  ---  -___    ------    ------   --  -  --
Subtotal Transmission            746     992    1738    1090       484    1574      959      786    1745    2795    2262    5057
Subtransai.sion                  950     400    1350      950      450    1400    1020       470    1490    2920    1320    4240
Distribution & Rural Elsc.    1440       160    1600    1755       190    1945    2160       240    2400    5355      590    5945
Diesel Sets in Baluchistan        24      20       44     ---      ---      ---     --       --      -         24      20       44
Grand Total                     5375    3724    9099    6324    3489    9813    6764    4324   11088   18463   11537   30000
uuuu.  in**u*  **.~    u.**  ......  UUUUUU.. ..UU   UEUE  , UUu... ..... ... ....... ..U..a  Eummam.. UUUUUU .....U  ..... ...U.....   .. ....



PAKISTAN
ENUCY SECTOR LOAN
KARACHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY CORPORATION
CORE INVESTHENT PROGRAM - 1985/86 - 1987188
(RUPEES MILLION)
1985/86                1986/87                1987/88                 TOTAL
PROJECT               LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL  IOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOUIGN  TOTAL
200 NW BIN Q&SIN TIERMAL POWER
STATION UNIT - I         71.8   32.5  104.2    ---    ---    ---    ---    ---    ---   71.8   32.5  104.2
200 NV 4IN QASIN THERMAL POWER
STATION UNIT - III         62.4  141.8  204.2  385.7  389.0  774.7  791.2  675.4  1466.6  1239.2  1206.3  2445.5
200 HW BIN QASIN THERHAL POWER
STATION UNIT - IV          1.8    4.6    6.4   62.4  141.8  204.2  385.7  389.0  774.7  449.9  535.4  985.3
200 NW BIN QASIN THERAL POWER
STATION UNIT - V              ---        ---    ---    ---    ---    71.0  162.1  233.1   71.0  162.1  233.1
TRANSMISSION LINE & EXTENSIOd IN TIIE
EXISTING GRID STATION.UNITS III 6 IV    0.5    0.8    1.2   68.3  104.2  172.5  126.4  144.4  270.8  195.2  249.3  444.5
GRID STATIONS AND TRANSMISSION LINES   135.7  114.3  250.0  201.6  148.4  350.0  241.2  158.8  400.0  578.5  421.5  1000.0
NORMAL DISTRIBUTION AND OTIIERS       375.0    ---   375.0  425.0    ---  425.0  450.0    ---  450.0  1250.0    --  1250,0
______     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     ---- --     -------     -------     ___   ------
TOTAL                                 647.1  293.9  941.0  1142.9  783.5  1926.4  2065.4  1529.8  3595.2  3855.5  2607.1  6462,6
0.



PAK ISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
OIL 6 GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM - 1985/86 - 1987/88
(RUPEES MILLION)
1985/86                  1986/87                  1987/88                   TOTAL
PROJECT                 LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
DEVELoPMENT OF OIL a GAS RESOURCES         140      280     420      140     280      420     601    1001    1602       881    1561    2442
PETROL8UU  EXPLORATION                      180     326      506     163     220      383     163      220     383      506     766    1272
DAKHNI DEVEWPHENT - PHASE I                118      124     242          --      ---          ---      ---     ---      118     124     242
PIRKON DEVELOPMENT - PHASE I ENHANCED    259        285     544       75       90     165     ---      ---     --       334     375      709
RODHO DEVELOPMENT                           20       29      49      ---     ---      ---     ---      ---     ---       20      29      49
TOOT DUVWLOPNENT - PHASE II                  18      27       45     ---     ---      ---          ---     ---           18      27       45
TANDO AIAN DEVELOPMENT                       94     139     233       63       92     155     ---      ---     --       157     231      388
PINKON DEVELOPMENT - PHASE 11              ---      ---     ---       89     165      254      104     210     314      193     375      568
DAKHNI DEVELOPMEfT - PHASE 11               43       80     123       89     123      212     267      369     636      399     572      971
OHODAK DEVELOPMENT - PHASE II              159      316     475       33      32       65     ---      ---     --       192     348      540
EQUIPMEN  a TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION           4       77      81       24     113      137       1        6       7       29     196     225
CANADIAN T.A. PROGRAM - PIASE 11             22      74      96       14       75      89       12      52      64       48     201      249
DRILLING IIATERIAL RESERVE DANK             19      123     142      ---     -        ---     ---      ---     ---       19     123     142
SARI/HUNDI GAS FIELDS                      ---      ---     ---       50      84      134      is               IS       65      84      149
DRILLING EQUIPNENT HOD. & UPGRAD.           12       45      57      ---     ---      ---     ---      ----              12      45       57
OGDC OFFICE BUILDING - PHASE I a 11         20      ---       20      22       10      32      30      ---      30       72      10       62
JOINT VENTURES                              93      272     365      150     125      275     175      150     325     418      547     965
-------                                                                                 ---------
TOTAL                                     1201    2197    3398       912    1409    2321    1368    2008    3376    3481    5614    9095
m... ..... .....m""  ......................... ....... ......... ..m.... .......... ....... EU....... mu.... ummumum mums. .U~~     ..m...S....-
IC
e4



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LTD.
CORE INVESTHENT PROGRAM - 1985186 - 1987/88
-_-----------------------------------------
(RUPEES HILLION)
1985/86                  1986/87                  1987/88                   TOTAL
PROJECT                 LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
______                        -------   -------   -------    -------   -------    -------   ----   ---  ---
SNCPL V & Others                           881     489    1370      550     120      670     207     ---      207    1638      609    2247
Energy Sector                               51      63      114     167     225      392     ---      ---     ---     218      288     506
TOTAL                                      932     552    1484      717      345    1062     207      ---     207    1856      897    2753
n..uma  -mu....... wumum       ....... mum........ u.. .  ....... mu......... usammu  muannu aumamma uunuuu *sauumu.....s uu  .......
aoJ



PAR ISTAN
U1HERCY SECTOR LOAN
KARACHI GAS COMPANY LTD.
CORE INVESTHUNT PROGRAM - 1985/86 - 1987/88
---------------------------------.---------
(RUPEES MILLION)
1985/86                  1986/87                   1987/88                    TOTAL
PROJECT                  LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
EXPENDITURE ON DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
Hains and Services                     54.5     7.4    61.9    73.1    11.7    84.8    93.1    11.7   104.8   220.6    30.9   251.5
Consumer Meter Stations TBS/TRS        26.9     7.1    34.0    30.4       7.8    38.2    34.4       8.6    43.0    91.6    23.6   115.2
Reinforcement of Hain.                 11.5     1.6    13.1    13.0       2.0    15.0    14.7       2.4    17.2    39.2       6.1    45.3
Ancillary Equipment 6 Others           17.5     2.5    20.0    20.2       2.8    23.0    22.9       3.1    26.0    60.7       8.3    69.0
Computerized Cen. Control Station    4.1    41.9    45.9          3.7    27.9    31.6      ---      ---      ---     7.8    69.8    77.5
METER HANUFACTURING PLANT                   0.5      0.5     1.0      0.5     0.5      1.0      0.5     0.5      1.0      1.5     1.5      3.0
TOTAL                                     114.9    61.0   175.9   140.9    52.7   193.6   165.7    26.3   192.0   421.4   140.1   561.5
...c.s~ **Ufl.  **SU.m  US**Uf *--lSUf- *--flS*  *--*S f*-**-- *-----  *U*-  *---- *-----
00
Pt



PAKISTAN                                                                      ANNEXURE I
ENERGY  SECTOR  LOAN                                                                Pase 6 of 7
PAKISTAN STATE OIL COMPANY LTD.
COKE INVESTHENT PROGRAM - 1985/86 - 1987/88
---------_-_-_--,-_------------------------
(RUPEES MILLION)
1985/86                          1986/87                           1987/88                            TOTAL
_______                           _____   __-                                                        -------___
PROJECT                         LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGZI  TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
______                        ____.-       -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
20" KARACtII  PORT PIPELINE                             33.3        19.6       52.9        ---         ---        ---        ---        ---         ---       33.3       19.6       52.9
STORAGE  FACILITIES                                    262.8       48.4      311.2          ---        ---        ---        ---         ---        ---    262.8         48.4      311.2
__ __ __    - -- -- - -   __ _ __ _____ _ __ _  __ _ __ __  _ ___ ___ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _____ 
TOTAL                                                  296.1        63.0      364.1         ---        ---        ---                    ---        ---    296.1         68.0    364.1
f-naaa- nlw..   ---.m n.   e--s""   *ar..s =n.M n   *.nn  .....a me ..W.  *ssfs. SUSas.    Samoa=
ph
0
IPh
ox



PAKISTAN
ENERCY SECTOR LOAN
PAKISTAN MINERAL DEVWLOPMEN CORPORATION
CORE INVESTMENT PIOCRJM - 1985/86 - 1987/SB
(RUPEES MILLION)
195/86                1986187                 1987/88                  TOTAL
PROJECT                LOCAL FOREICH  TOAL    OCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   WCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL
-----    -----    ----------          -----     -----  -----  ----- -   .-
ON ODING
EXPLORATION OF GOOD HOPE AREA,
DIARI, BALUCHISTAN                     5.5     --      5.5    ---      --      --             --      -       5.5    0.0      5.5
FESI8ILITY STUDY FOR PRODUCTION OF
SMOKELESS COAL BRIQUETTES             0.2     2.8     3.0    ---    ---      --      --      ---     --      0.2     2.8    3.0
DEVELOPMENT OF COAL NINES AT tAKIIRA
(OTHER THAN FOR POWER GENERATION)     5.7     2.0      77,    --___-                  ---    --- _            5.7    2.0    7.7
NEW PROJECTS
DEVELPNIT OF COAL HINES AT LAHRA
(FOR POWER GENERATION-PHDC'S SHARE)   ---    .---    ---    20.0   40.0   60.0   40.0   60.0  100.0   60.0  100.0  160.0
ESTABLISHMENT OF S.OKILESS COAL
BRIQUETTES PLANT                     ---     ---     ---      5.0   20.0   25.0    5.0   20.0   25.0   10,0   40.0   50.0
DETAILED EXPLORATION OF COAL RESERVES
IN NORTHERN BLOCK OF LAHIA         9.7     2.5   12.2   12.6       --    12.6   12.6    2.0   14.6   34.9    4.5   39.4
DETAILED EXPLORATION OF COAL RESERVES
IN GOOD 11OPE AREA,DEGARI           ---     ---    ---    10.0    5.0   15.0   10.0    5.0   15.0   20.0   10.0   30.0
OTHER SCHEMES
EXPANSION OF MXAARWAL COLLIERIES        ---      --     ---      5.0    3.0     8.0    5.0    5.0   10.0   10.0    8.0    18.0
EXPANSION OF DEGARI COLLIERIES          4.0     1.0    5.0      3,0     2.0    5.0    8.8       1.2   10.0   15.8       4.2   20.0
REORGANIZATION OF SOR-RANGE COLLIERIE   ---     ---    ---      6.0    4.0   10.0    6.0        4.0   10.0   12.0    8.0   20.0
EXPANSION OF METING COAL HlNES,SIND     ---     ---    ---      3.0    2.0    S.0    3.0        2.0    5.0    6.0       4.0    10.0
DEVELOPHENT OF PIR-CENANIAN COAL MINE    ---    ---    ---      3.0    2.0      5.0    3.0    2.0    5.0    6.0         4.0   10.0
Po
------    -------------------------------
TOTAL                                   25.1     8.3   33.4   67.6   78.0  145.6   93.4  101.2  194.6  186.1  187.5  373.6
=.M Masa M. a      . . .......                 *..M.=.... mo.a.  Sa-.neS lo.w' . .,   ass-.amX
O H
F,



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
ENERGY SECTOR
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
________________________________-________
(RUPEES MILLION)                 (05$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL   1985186  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL
-----  -------  -------  -------   -------  -------  -------  -------
Investments
Local Costs                 8659    9256   10663   28578          566      605     697    1867
Foreign Costs               6966    6330    7989   21285          455      413      522    1390
_______  --------  -------  ----- -  _------ ------
Total Investment              15625   15586   18652   49863         1021    1018    1218    3257
-muummm noun==     mumumum  mu urn..                  muini3  3S-nin-
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation      4125    4805    5752   14682          269      314     376      959
Govt. of Pakistan        2776    2994    2959    8728          181      196      193     570
Local Loans              1758    1457    1953    5168          115       95      128     338
______  -------  -------  -------   -------  -------  -------
TotaL Local Financing       8659    9256   10663   28578          566      605      697    1867
Foreign Financing
Bank - ESL               1575    1151        0    2727         104       74       0      178
Bank - Other             1354    1288    1517    4159           88       84       99     272
Other Multilateral        739      770    1580    1509          48       50      103      99
Bilateral                2588    1765    1218    5571          169      115      80-    364
GOP  1/                   531      261    102n    1812          35       17       67     118
Financing Gap             179    1094    2654    3928           12       71      173     257
Total Foreign Financing        6966    6330    7989   21285          455      413      522    1390
_____  ---_ _-_-  ------- ----                                   ---             H
Total Financing               15625   15586   18652   49863         1021    1018    1218    3257           " '?
1/ In the case of OGDC only.



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
POWER SUBSECTOR
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
------------------------------------------
(RUPEES MILLION)                 (US$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL    1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL
n______  -------  -------  -------    -------  -------  -------  -------
Investments
Local Costs                 53B2     6214     6764    18360        352      406      442     1199
Foreign Costs               3717      3599    4324    11640        243       235     282       760
______  -------  -------  -------    -------  -------  -------
Total Investment                9099     9813    11088    30000        594      641      724     1960
.momunm  um        m  s              ==                 mmmminm  inmuinn
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation      2688     3323     3854     9865        176      217      252      644
Govt. of Pakistan        2694     2891      2910    8495         176      189      190      555
Total Local Financing        5382     6214    6764    18360         352      406      442     1199
Foreign Financing 1/
Bank - ES Loan            512      408      ---      920         33       27        0       60
Bank - Other               244      719     1147     2110         16      47        75      138
Other Multilateral         409      515     1370     2294         27       34       89      150
Bilateral                 2437     1577     1160     5174        159      103       76      338
Financing Gap              115     380      647     1142          8       25       42        75
Total Foreign Financing         3717     3599    4324    11640         243      235      282      760         0 
Total Financing                9099     9813    11088    30)00         594     641      724      1960             c
*0



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
POWER SUBSECTOR
KARACHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY CORPORATION
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAH - 1985/86-1987/88
-------------------------------------------
(RUPEES MILLION)                 (US$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL    1985/86. 1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL
Investments
Local Costs                  647     1143     2065    3855          42       75      135      252
Foreign Costs                294       784     1530    2607          19      51      jon      170
Total Investment                 941     1926    3595    6463          61      126               422
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation        73      221      417      711          5       14       27       46
Local Loan.               574      922     1648     3144         37       60      108      205
 -------         -------  -------    -------  -------  -------  -------
Total Local Financing         647     1143     2065     3855        42        75      135      252
Foreign Financing
Bank - ES Loan            230      153      ---      383         15       10        0       25
Other 1/                    64     630      1530     2224         4       41       100     145
Total Foreign Financing          294      784     1530    2607          19'     51       100      170
Total Financing                  941     1926     3595     6463        61       126     235      422
------------- ------------ ------------ -------------    " s   - ---------------- -----  =S - -   -Q--p
1/ Is the Financing Gap that will meet the entire Foreign Exchange Outlays                                    w
in these Fiscal Years required to implement Bin Qasim Units III & IV.                                     0 H
I1,



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
PETROLEUH SUBSECTOR
OIL AND GAS DEVEWPMENT CORPORATION
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
------------------------------______-------
(RUPEES MILLION)                 CUS$ MILLION)
OIL & GAS DEV. CORPORATION   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL    1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL
_________________________   -------  -------  -------  -------    -------  -------  -------
Investments
Local Costs                 1201      912    1368    3481           78       60       89      227
Foreign Costs               2197     1409    2008    5614          144       92      131      367
 _  _   _  _  _ -------  .. - -    ----  _ __   ------  ------  -------
Total Investment                3398    2321     3376    9095         222      152      221      594
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation      1139      912    1368    3419           74       60       89      223
Govt. of Pakistan
Local Loans                62      ---      ---       62          4        0        0        4
______  -------  -------  -------    -------  _       -------
Total Locul Financing        1201     912    1368    3481           78       60       89      227
Foreign Financing
OGDC/GOP                   531     261      1020    1812         35       17       67      118
Bank - ES WAN             436      360      ---      796         29       24        0       52
Bank - Other              749      345      370    1464          49       23       24       96
ADB                        285     255      210      750         18       17       14       49
CIDA                      151      188       58      397         10       12        4       26
Islamic DB                 45      ---      ---       45          3        0        0        3
Financing Gap             ---      ---      350      350          0        0       23       22
_______ -------    -------    -------  -------____ -------    -------  ----    0
Total Foreign Financing        2197     1409    2008      5614        144       92      131      367
______- ------- -------  -------   ------O-
Total Financing                3398    2321      3376     9095        222      152      221      594
" ..m... .m.mmin. ..uumuum  a *.u..mm    mi   m.um isn..



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LTD.
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESDIENT PROGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
------------------------------------------
(RUPEES MILLION)                (US$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL   1985/86  1986/87 1987/88   TOTAL
Investments
Local Costs                  932     717      207    1856         61       47       14     121
Foreign Costs                552     345      ---      897        36       23       0       59
______  -------  -------  -------  -------  -------
Total Investment               1484    1062      207    2753         97       69       14     180
*maum .m.....  *.u.mun . ......   mm...... =. .....  m...un..  .......
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation       147     248      ---      395        10       16       0       26
Local Loans               785     469      207    1461         51       31       14      95              1
_______-          - - -   -------   -------  -------  ------
Total Local Financing        932      717     207    1856         61       47       14      121
Foreign Financing
Bank - ES Loan            182     132      ---      314        12        9        0      21
Bank - SNGPL V            370     213      ---      583        24       14        0      38
----- -------  _ ------  -------    -------
Total Foreign Financing         552     345      ---      897        36       23        0      59
_______ -------  -------            -------  -------
Total Financing                1484    1062      207    2753         97       69       14     180
===. ....  mu......  mum....  u.m===   mmn====. ====w mum.mmu  0.00mu.
st1
n
O H
U'
'a



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR WAN
PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
KARACHI GAS COMPANY
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTMENT PRUGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
____..____________________________________
(RUPEES MILLION)                     (US$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL    1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL
______a   -------   -------   -------     -------   -------   -------   -------
Investments
Local Costa                      115       141       166       421           8         9        11        28
Foreign Costa                     61        53        26       140           4         3         2         9
______   -------   -------   -------     --  -----  -------  -------   -------
Total Investment                     176       194       192       562          11        13        13        37
*-*.un  *inuomm  *umuummon  uimmumu    *Ubuum  au.mze nuu.                sin
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation            74        87        93       254           5         6         6        17
Local Loans                    41        54        73       168           3         4         5        11
-  -   - - - -      - -- -   - - - -     -   ---  - - --     - - -
Total Local Financing            115       141       166       421            8         9       11        28
Foreign Financing
Bank - ES Loan                 61        15       ---        77           4         1         0         5
Financing Gap                   0        37        26        64           0         2         2         4
_____    -------   -------   -------     -------   -------   -------   -------
Total Foreign Financing               61       53        26       140            4         3         2         9
a____a_ a--_a_ -------                    ------ _ _  -------    -------   -------
Total Financing                     176       194       192       562           11        13        13        37
muumuu.  ummminm  ==ummmm   *muinam       =mmnmmi  umminmu~mo   Um         m
0 H



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
PARISTAN STATE OIL COMPANY
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
(RUPEES MILLION)                 (US$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   TOTAL
Investments
Local Costs                  296      ---      ---      296        19        0        0       19
Foreign Costs                 68      ---      ---       68         4        0        0        4
Total Investment                364        0        0      364        24        0        0       24
unmmsmuu  u..n.muum==u  uUUU uw==u.uminn=
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation       ---      ---      ---       0          0        0        0        0
Local Loans               296        0        0      296        19        0        0       19               %
_______  -------  -------  -------   -------  -------  _______-_______-I
Total Local Financing        296        0        0      296        19        0        0       19
Foreign Financing
Bank - ES Loan             68      ---      ---       68         4        0        0        4
 ______  -------  - -----  ------  -------  -------  -------     ---
Total Foreign Financing          68        0        0       68         4        0        0        4
______  -------  -------  -------   -------  _   _____         -- ----
Total Financing                 364        0        0      364        24        0        0       24
~0 



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
COAL SUBSECTOR
PAKISTAN MINERAL DEVELOPHENT CORPORATION
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTHENT PROGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
__________________________________________
(RUPEES MILLION)                  (US$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL    1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL
Investments
Local Costs                    25       68       93      186          2        4        6       12
Foreign Costs                   8       78      101      188          1        5        7       12
_______  _______ -------  ---- -  -- ----- -  -----
Total Investment                  33      146      195      374          2       10       13       24
Financ ing
Local Financing
Internal Generation          4       14       20       38          0        1        1        2
Govt. of Pakistan           21       42       49      111          1        3        3        7
Local Loans                ---       12       25       37          0        1        2        2
______  -----    _  _ -------   -------  -------  -------  -------
Total Local Financing          25       68       93      186          2        4        6       12
Foreign Financing
Bank - ES LOAN               8       78      ---       87          1        5        0        6
Financing Gap                0        0      101      101          0        0        7        7
______ ------    -------  -------    -------  ------     - ____   -------
Total Foreign Financing            8       78      101      188          1        5        7       12
Totsl Financing                   33      146      195      374          2       10       13       24
W LJ
034
0 H
D0



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
ENERGY CONSERVATION
FINANCING PLAN FOR CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM - 1985/86-1987/88
(RUPEES MILLION)                  (US$ MILLION)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL    1985/86  1986/87  1987/88    TOTAL
Investments
Local Costs                    61       61                122          4        4        0        8
Foreign Costs                  69       62       ---      131          5        4        0         9
______  -------  -------  -----     -  -------  -------          _______
Total Investment                 130       123        0      253          8        8        0        17
Financing
Local Financing
Internal Generation             ---      ---             0          0        0        0        0
Government of Pakistan      61       61         0      122          4        4        0        8
_______  -------  -------  -------     -------  -------  -------  _____ _ -*
Total Local Financing          61        61        0      122          4        4        0         8
Foreign Financing
Bank - ES Loan              69       15       --_       84          5        1        0        6
Financing Gap                0       47        0        47          0        3        0        3
_______  -------  -------  -------     -------  -------  -------  ______
Total Foreign Financing           69       62         0      131          5        4        0         9
Total Financing                  130       123        0      253          8        8        0        17
*UUmmmm  *umumUom  Wmwommu  =Mummum=    ==a=="= Mmumma=  m1mimoma   noummnWEd
%0
0.-
~0



-75-
ANNEX VII_
Attachment 1
PAKISTAN
ENERCY SECTOR LOAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SOURCES OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE FINANCING BY PROJECT
EXPECTED          PROJECT COST
DATE OF          (Rs. MILLION)            FOREIGN EXCHANGE FINANCING
PROJECT                   COMPLETION   LOCAL  FOREIGN  T0TAL        SOURCE   Rs. MIL.  U31S   IL.
Cenerat ion
Guddu 4                             Fab '86         1065      546    1611    CHIN           690          46
Cuddu CS                                            1381    2436    3817
*.300 NW Gas Turbine            Nov '85                                  ADD           2115         141
b.150 KW Combined Cycle         Feb '86                                  USAID          780          52
Jamaboro 250 MW                     Dec '88         1558    1665    3223    JAPAN          1875          125
Quetta 35 MU                        Aug '85           52      115     167    JAPAN          150           10
Kot Addu 400 MW                     Oct '86         1296    1668    2964    W.GERlMNY       570           38
ITALY         750           50
Tarbels (9 & 10)                    Aug '85          701      731    1432    OPEC           480           32
ADS           435           29
CIDA          300           20
Tarbels (11 to 14)                  Jun '90         5466    5000   10466    ADB            2535          169
Gilgit Hydel                                         169       89     258
P & I of Major Hydel                                 171       72     243
Duki Coal(PC I & II)                                  53       63     116    IBRD           105            7
Low Read Rydel                                      1098      600    1698
Hulttn (1 to 3) 600 KW              Jun '89         4154    3920    8074    USSR           4155          277
Jabhoro -2  210 MV                  Jun '90         1457    1676    3133    CHINA
JAPAN
Lakhra Coal 300 KW                  Dec '90         6660    3700   10360    IBRD
ADB
USAID
Chitral Pbase 1U                                      12        1      13
Diesel Gilgit 3 MW                                    21        9      30
Transmission
Tarbela-Faisalbad 500-kV                             488      341     829    CIDA           750           50
Faisalabad-Jamboro 500-kV                           1868    1744    3612    IBRD            750          50
KUWAIT        660           44
JAPAN         470           31
FRANCE        465          31
Faisalabad-Sahiwal 220-kV                            175      181     356   DDB
Load Despatch Center                                 399      347     746    ADB            360          24
Lahore-Jaushoro 500-kV                              2857    2118    4975    IBRD           1275          85
JAPAN
FRANCE
Tarbela-Lahore 500-kV                                815      585    1400
Cuddu-Sibi-Quetta 220-kY                             310       50     360
Nandan-Peshawar 220-kV                               171      122     293    KFW
Dodu-Kuzhdar 220-kV                                  661       52     713    KFW
Ludv.-Daud 2201500-kV                                467     433      900
Subtr ansission                                    15408    2615   18023    IBRD           1500         100
Diesel Sets in Baluchistan                           104     --       104



-76-
ANNEX VJ.II
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
Procurement Schedule
1st Tranche            2nd Tranche
CONTRACTS OVER US$250,000
Loan effective      Disbursement effected
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)    September 1, 1985        June 1, 1986
Procurement Notice                            March 15, 1985          November 1, 1985
Bidding Documents for Bank Review               May 31, 1985          December 1, 1985
Issue Bidding Documents                        June 15, 1985          January 1, 1986
Closing Date for Bids Receipt                August 31, 1985          March 15, 1986
Recommendation for Bank Review            September 30, 1985          May 1, 1986
Contract Signature                          October 30, 1985          June 1, 1986
Limited Competitive Bidding (LCB)
Bidding Documents and List of
Prices for Bank Review                        May 31, 1985          November 15, 1985
Issue Bidding Documents                        June 30, 1985          January 1, 1986
Closing Date                                 August 15, 1985          March 1, 1986
Recommendation for Bank Review            September 15, 1985          May 1, 1986
Contract Signature                        September 30, 1985          June 1, 1986
Direct Contracting (DC)
Purchase Order for Bank Review            August 31, 1985         March 31, 1986
Purchase Order Signature                  October 1, 1985         June 1, 1986
CONTRACTS BELOW US$250,000
Post Award Review                         September 15, 1985      May 15, 1986



-77-
ANNEX IX
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
Financial Requirements of the Core Investment Program for FYs86 and 87
(Rs billion)
1985/86                 1986/87                  Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
POWER
WAPDA          5.38    3.71    9.09   6.21    3.59    9.80  11.59    7.30   18.89
IESC           0.65    0.29    0.94   1.14    0.78    1.92   1.79    1.07    2.86
PETROLEUM
OGDC           1.20    2.20    3.40   0.91    1.41    2.32   2.11    4.52    6.63
SNGPL          0.93    0.55    1.48   0.72    0.34    1.06   1.65    0.89    2.54
PSO            0.29    0.07    0.36    -         -       -      (.29    0.07    0.36
KGC            0.12    0.06    0.18   0.14    0.05    0.19   0.26    0.11    0.37
COAL
PMDC           0.02    0.01    0.03   0.07    0.08    0.15   0.09    0.09    0.18
PLANNING & CONSERVATION
ENERPLAN       0.03    0.02    0.05   0.03    0.02    0.05   0.06    0.04    0.10
ENERCON        0.01    0.02    0.03   0.01    0.02    0.03   0.02    0.04    0.06
ENARPETROTECH  0.02    0.03    0.05   0.02    0.03    0.05   0.04    0.06    0.10
TOTAL       8.65    6.96   15.6    9.25    6.32   15.57  17.9    13.28   31.2
P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ _  ==      =  _  =   ===            _       



-78-
ANNEX X
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
Distribution of the Proposed Loan
First      Second
Total     Tranche      Tranche
(US$ million)
Power
WAPDA                     60.0        34.0         26.0
KESC                      25.0        15.0         10.0
85.0       49.0         36.0
Petroleum
OGDC                      52.0        28.5         23.5
SNGPL                     21.0        12.0          9.0
KGC                        5.0         4.0          1.0
PSO                        5.0         4.0           -
82.0       48.5         33.5
Coal
PMDC                       6.0         2.0         4.0
Conservation                 5.0         5.0          -
Total               178.0       104.5        73.5



-79-
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 7
1000t StIl LOAN
POW.  s3lm31    - 1A5
PUKOS  LI or or rQuIuN=f aND  rm_sur  Ranmws
(13 3 500.)
1st     2nd
TlOt             TOTAL    IC5       LIB      LC2       tC   7ASCNC IDAiWHE
STEIN CENESATION
-PREgUTUT    & CONDOS1 aLE   1650         -        -      --      350       950      700
-10R11    IAE                   750g     --       ---     ---      750      40       300
-CI3SIAION Pimps               1500               --5      -_      --       900      600
-IUCNWAD    owwrm               al       --       ---     --       i,       *o       417
-PAU IPAr       rP  5AM3 -NICII.
*6 AU3UAR3 EQIPLUI          290       _                .50     27.4I    2500      400
-IuhtMMmAnION & TuSnIHO
quirPN                      550     -        1S       --       4C0      200      350
-100I.S.SQUIJPHET & NATEliAL
VIJ NWC. & OVUEHAUL           625      625     --       --       --       325      300
SUSISIL                         3i02      62      1800     --      U77    57)5    30NU
COSBttMON hT331U7n
(Vlhs.n .qina
-30T73s (3 km.)                G000     ---      --       --     G00    4000    2000
-rntL nFn                      2600      --     2400      ---      --      1300     30
-TURS1I1   LUe                 7i1o     --                -       7a10     0s0      360
-MDT QS PAIT  CON011ENS        1160                               1160      650     51
-SPADE PARTS POR ELUTCOIECU1.
A AUEZIU I QOPIUPNET       2039     -       1437      -       602      00      1239
-INSTEDISATIllO    T& 1T3 C
iFflurT                     326     -        300      -        526     200      623
-ToOL3.9qV2 MUTr 6 MATERIAL
pan noTCB. AC UEo   UL        79       54       195              -        106      6
SOM4AL                         14924      59     4332      -       9o       3203    3728
371.07 CNEaIouTll
(UhEUi.ANC3ICA.TAA3EA)
_n31.  (2 lle..AA)             200       -        -2              2000    2000       -
& AXILIARY EIrNgfh          2053      -       -                2053     900    1153
- tuNcrasD  iqencir            1670      400      -       -        070      770      700
-INST2EUTAT1o  6 TSTINGC
Dnnxr                       no  S5o   -               -       3m   4o00  ,A0
-1M0LS.QMNWr & MATW BL
--I ma       . 4 0oumaL       597      300     -        -        207     223      364
U500AL                         *no0   1200       --       -     5s7n       4293    2391
sin & mamfxungu
GRID STATION  quip.0
-Cs.,c & T TLNS-. 1090    1090                   -09 
-tS)ATOUS                      554      -        555 --             ---- 5-
-L4C UGtG AST.                 152      -                --       -        --      152
-TEAKS. UJ3HIJIS               503      -        503              --                 3
-RELAYS                        520     --        520     ---      --      --       520
-ISTnInuRs & OTT.              7N0      ---      700       -      --       700     --
-SPARE PANTS                  1000     -        ---      ---    1000    1000
SIITOTAL                        4519    1090    2429       -       1000    334      1175
11-Eu SWITCHAR                  3200      -       -       3200      ---    3600    160
PVER CABLE A Sins                 72      512      -       -                 572      --
CGW1WL CAK                       200  200   -    -    -    200   -
7uSPOMr OIL                       3O      a                ISO     -        -        360
TESTING EQCIlpHSo3              3246    32 6       -       -                 -      3246
WOSHOP E pEncT                  1403      350      933     120      -          0    1343
SPARE PARTS                     2500      --       -       -       2500    2500       -
SUBrOrAL                       31601    454         33    30so     2500    4932    3549
OISTRIIUTOW
-sU"WT CPACIStlS               3150      MO50     -       -        -       1700    1450
-LT POTZIC N SWItCH            3000 .00 o                 -                1620    1330
-EMOTE CONTROL EQUI.            320      320       -                        320     -
-MERS                          2734    2764       -       -        -       IS0     12"
-MAINTEIE  EQUIPNUT            4050    4050       -       -        -       233    1690
SUBTOTAL                       13284   1323        --      -        -       750      5734
GPAW   TOTAL                   6000    2131      94      31500   2565   3l    2590
- - .                                         _ - -.. ....... .  ..... ....... .......



-80-
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 7
PAKISTAN
ElL Slama IJWAN
POVR   SWCOR - KUC
PROPOSED LIU Or IWIPNU    AND PRoCMNh ARRANGUNET
(uS S utoo.)
lot     2nd
ITEMS            TOTAL   ICU      L18    LC        PC  TRANCKE TRANCL
STEAM GenEATION
(KORAsGI,PIPrI)
-PR ATU  ZLMENTS            160.0     -                     1---060.0  160.0   -
-TURBINE BLAD               900.0     -       -90 --          0.0  900.0      --
-SPARS PARTS MOR ELlCTR-NECH
4 AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT    548.5     7.0     -       --    41.6   74.6   104.2
SUtrOTAL                    1903.8    7.0      -         -  1901.8 1804.6  104.2
-SPAI PARTS FOR ELfCTRP-MECII
& AUXILIAtY EQUIPMENr    281.4     --      -       --   281.4  281.4       -
-SWITCVtARD EQUIPMENT        41.9    41.9             --      --      ---    41.9
SUBOTAL                      ,23.3    4.9      --      --   251.4  281.4    41.9
TRANSMISSION L DISTRIAIT10N
ULTENBIOR OF SULTATION
(ADDITION OF TRANSPOR
4 SWITCUVARD CQUIPIINT)
132111 - KT
SITE (30 EVA)            1940.0  1940.0     -                    1940.0     -
FDERAL C30NVA)            680.0  680.0      -       -              --   680.0
IALOCR COLON! (30NVA)   1910.0  1910.0      -                    1910.0     --
KUB CuIozI (20nVA)       1150.0  1150.0     ---                     -    1150.0
66111 - tV
NORTH NAUZIAAD (20NVA)  920.0  920.0        -       --      -    920.0      --
SUINSTATION aglrwoacNr
(REPLIACEIQT Or TtANS ZRE
* SVITCIARD EQUIPHKNHT)
132111 - KY
LOASGCI TOWN (30 NRA)   1310.0  1310.0      -       -            1310.0     -
6/11 - xv
NIJLR (t0 MVA)            760.0  760.0              -               -     760.0
OLD TOWN (20 MIA)         920.0  920.0      -               --   920.0      -
SUAnTION COIERSION
FROM 66111 -XV tO 132111 - XV
(TRANSOllIRS.SWlTCHYRtAD
EQUIP. 6 GCID CONNTION)
CUiiAN (2X30 RVA)        4070.0  470.0      -       -       -   4070.0      -
MN SUBSTATION 132111-kV
(TIIUISoIC S,SVITCN!ARD
ZQuIP. & CUID CONNECTiON)
LlAqIITABAD (30 MU)        2890.0  2890.0     -       -       -   2890.0      -
SPARE PARTS COU  SWITCHNR
AUX. & TELECOISt. EQUIPElNT 1175.1   181.1  136.4     -    857.6  767.2  407.9
SUNTOTAL                   17725.1 16732.1  116.4      -    857.6 14727.2  2907.9
EQUIP. & MATERIAL 1/        6993.5  5245.1  1748.4     -                    b_ 6993.5
TOTAL                      25000.0 21976.2  1884.8          1139.0 iba00.6  9991.4
11 ACTUAL EQUIPMENT AND MATRIAL WILL  E DECIDED FOWWINC  i) TIHE CompLETION
OF AU ON-COlINC STUDY 2DERTAKEN TO REVIEW AND REC0 D  IMPROVEMENT AND RE-
EARILITION OF TKE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, AND (iiTEE CMPLETION OF AN ONOIIUC
STUDY 70 C014PUrIEZE KESC'S FiNANCE DEPATMET.



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
OIL & GAS SUBSECTOR - OGDC
PROPOSED LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND PROCUREMENT ARRANGEIENT
(US $ MILLION)
lst     2nd
ITEHS           TOTAL   ICB    LIB    LCB    DC   TRANCHE TRANCHE
Oil Fiald Tubular
Material            7.5    7.5        ---        ---     3.8      3.7
Rock Bits & Core Heads       2.0    2.0    ---    ---    ---       1.0     1.0
Miscellaneous drilling
Equipment & Materials        0.8    0.6    0.2    ---    ---      0.4      0.4
Wellheads and Christ-
mas Trees        3.4    3.4    ---    ---    ---       1.7      1.7
Chemicals                    4.0    2.8    1.2    ---              2.0     2.0
Cement & Additives           4.9    4.6    0.3    ---   ---    2.5         2.4
Packers                      0,7    0.4    0.3    .- 04                    0.3
Miscellaneous Production
Equipment 6 Materials        4.2    3.7    0.5            ---      2.1     2.1
Valves & Fittings            0.5    0.5    ---            ---      0.4     0.1
Drilling Rig Spares          2.9    ---    -__    ___    2.9       1.9     1.0
Water pumps                  1.4    1.4    ---    ---    ---       1.0     0.4
BOPe & Choke Manifolds       2.3    2.3        ---        ---     2.3       --
Mobile Cranes                1.4    1.4    ---    ---    ---       1.0     0.4
Services
Well Services & Drilling
Crane        6.0    4.8    1.2    ---    ---       3.0     3.0
Logging & Perforation        5.0    4.0    1.0    ---    ---       2.5     2.5
Production Testing &
Well Completion           5.0    4.0    1.0    ---    ---      2.5      2.5
TOTAL                       52.0   43.4    5.7    ---    2.9    28.5    23.5                       i
muuu  OWN"=  NUNN   mnuimi  mam    mamman  ini   
01-
S~~~~



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR WAN
OIL & GAS SUBSECTOR - SNGPL
PROPOSED LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND PROCUREMENT ARRANGEHENT
______________________________________________________
(US $ 'OOOs)
lst     2nd
ITEMS         TOTAL   ICB      LIB    LCB       DC  TRANCES TRANCHE
____  _____    -------     -------    -------     -------
METERS FOR GAS
HEASUREMENT             0.7    ---      0.7    ---              0.7
TELECOMM. EQUIPMENT     0.2    ---      ---     0.2    ---      0.2
DIGITAL NATURAL GAS
ANALYZER & ATTACHHEN    0.3    ---      ---     0.3    ---      0.3      -
VALVES & FITTINGS       0.3    0.3              ---             0.3
TEST CELL FOR TUR-
BINES                   1.3    ---      ---     1.3    ---      1.3
REHAB, OF 30 TUR-
BINE UNITS              6.7    ---      6.7     ---     ---     6.7    ---
FILTERATION OF 30
TURBINE UNITS           1.9    ---      1.9    ---      _-       ---    1.9
DISCHARGE GAS COO-
LING EQUIPMENT          5.7     5.7    ---      ---     ---     ---     5.7
HARD CHROME PIATING
PIANT                    .0    ---               .0      --  ---          .0
COMPUTER F&RDWARE &
SOFTWARE                0.6     -       0.6    ---      ---     0.6    ---
CORROSION EQUIPMENT     0,2     0.2    ---      ---     ---     0.2
SUBTOTAL               17.8    6.2    9.9       1.8    ---    10.2      7.6
CONTINGENCIES           2.7     0.9     1.5     0.3    ---      1.7     1.0
TOTAL                  20.5     7.1   11.4    2.1       ---    11.9     8.6
0 i
O X



PARISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
COAL SUBSECTOR - PMDC
PROPOSED LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND PROCUREWIENT ARRANGEMENT
(US $ MILLION)
1st     2nd
ITEMS           TOTAL   ICB    LIB    LCB    DC   TRANCHE TRANCHE
Drum Rope Haulage           0.18    ---   0.18    ---    ---    0.18       -
Air Compressor              0.04    ---   0.04    ---      --    004       --
Ventilation Fan             0.02    ---   0.02    ---    ---    0.02
Face Pumps                  0.01    ---   0.01    ---    ---    0.01      ---
Multistage Turbine Pump    0.04    ---   0.04    ---    ---    0.04         -
Hammer Drills               0.03    ---   0.03    ---    ---    0.01    0,02
Pnuematic Picks  1/          .00    ---    .00    ---             .00
Underground Locomotive     0.12    ---   0.12    ---    ---    0.07    0.06
Underground Telephone l/    .00      -     .00            ---     .00     ---
Core Drilling Machine       3,60   3.60    ---    ---    ---      ---    3.60
Laboratory Equipment       0.50   0.50    ---    ---    ---    0.50         --
Well Logging Equipment      0.65   0.65    ---    ---    0.65             ---
Shovel Loaders             0.04    ---   0.04    ---    ---    0.04
Steel Arches               0.10    ---   0.10    ---             0.10
Auxiliary Fans              0.01    ---   0.01             -     0.01      .00
Rail Switches  1/            .00    ---    .00    ---    ---      .00      .00
Mining Tubs                 0.07    ---   0.07    ---    ---    0.03    0.03
Load Haul & Dump Shovel    0.07    ---   0.07    ---    ---    0.07
Belt Conveyor              0.44   0.44    ---    ---    ---    0.22    0.22
Boring Machine             0.07    ---   0.07      --    ----   0 .W"
TOTAL                       6.00   5.19   0.81                   2.00    4.00
o 6



.-84-
ANNEX XI
Page 6 of 7
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
OIL & GAS SUBSECTOR - KGC
PROPOSED LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND PROCUREMENT ARRANCEMENT
(US$ million)
lot       2nd
ITEf             TOTAL   ICB   LIB  LCB   DC   TRANCHE   TRANCHE
Computer           5.0     -    5.0    -    -      4.0       1.0
Total              5.0     -    5.0    -    -      4.0        1.0
~~~ ===



-85-
ANNEX XI
Page 7 of 7
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
OIL & GAS SUBSECTOR - PSO
PROPOSED LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT
(US$ million)
1st      2nd
ITEM                  TOTAL  ICB  LIB   LCB  DC  TRANCHE  TRANCHE
20-inch Pipeline      1.28   1.28   -      -   -      1.28
Storage Facilities    2.72   2.72   -     -   -       2.72
Total                 4.0   4.0    -       -   -      4.0        -
=   = =   =      _   ==      =         =



IBRD 16248R
ed           6S                                ! 12 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ $  ~~~I  MAYT?UlN
68- ~      ~~                        U. S. S R  5>            v  d 
j             .4H~~~INA
PAKISTAN                                                    (of szJ                  H           i
,     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      '
o     CITIES AND TOWNS
-   NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND  SECONDARY ROADS                                      q
-  ' s  RAILWAYS                                                -
+     AIRPORTS                                                                             -\ Coo5\: Appwo ii  ob Co CDm
-  _  PROVINCIAL BOUNDAF :S                                       Ni        , 9               A
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                      AMA AD'
-   RIVERS                                                                        Zp.4.
32,~~~                                                                                         a,                       329    _
!                                                      p    <          <         K hu*e ~~~~~~~~~~~~- >_/  \--JDI ho
*        ~~~~AFGHANISTAN                    *                                          U         Fosoab H     8          
U---
D                                                 |INDIA
ISLAMAIC   jt,                                                         O       ,/)
REPUBLIC  OF                     Boi'p
I RAN   .d . /X<-Ko, Dh~* /0           10l     200       300      A00
I RA  -j                                              (                                                KutO ETERS
N                    0     so~~5    JOG    15,0   200    250
(       .                         .                          Ic. \   a6dN,ohoh  (                              slE
           Hyde._  '  a~~t ,>?S$ro bod               .iu,g   * sar.  c. .lme
- ~~~~~~~~bruji; Pt-.mar. .a - .                                                                   IO M
a,CIaIDo T~ d,,,,n,
or. U,.00 .q pv
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                                                                            -    . 11  bW,Mfi..V. aM   I...d
Arobicn    Sea                              C          j
6.         .                                                                2-                md
1<=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,l                                                n f  r -  --- n--- yt 
-:, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    0r



