CIRCnULATING COPY
'10 DE RE8TURNED TO REPORTS     My'
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                   Report No. P-1626-IS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ISRAEL
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit                       Israel Pound (IL)
US$1                           IL 6
IL 1                           US$0.17
IL 1,000                       US$166.67
IL 1,000,000           -       US$166,666.67
Fiscal Year                 -       April 1 to March 31
Abbreviations
IDBI                        -       Industrial Development Bank of Israel Ltd
L.A.                        -       Loan Agreement
OCS                         -       Office of the Chief Scientist
P.A.                        -       Project Agreement



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO ISRAEL
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
t.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Israel for the equivalent of US$35 million at the Bank's standard lending
rate to help finance a project for industrial development. The Government
would on-lend $25 million at the same interest rate to the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Israel Limited (IDBI) with repayments by IDBI to the Government
and by the Government to the Bank conforming substantially to the aggregate
amortization schedule of IDBI's subloans. The remaining $10 million would
finance industrial research and development and vocational/technical training
and be repaid in 15 years, including 5 years grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Israel". will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. Its principal
findings are reflected below. Country Data sheets (Annex I) are attached.
3.        Israel has few natural resources.   Its economic growth has been
based largely on the imported or acquired skills of its people, technological
sophistication and a large capital inflow from abroad. Although the domestic
market has expanded considerably as incomes have risen, exports remain more
than ever crucial for continued growth and economic viability.
4.        From 1970 to September 1973, Israel enjoyed a period of prosperity,
with rapidly increasing levels of consumption. GNP per capita is estimated
to have reached $2,860 (Atlas basis) in 1973. GDP at factor cost grew by 10
percent per annum in real terms in 1971 and 1972, and at an annual rate of 7
percent up to September 1973, with industry growing at 12 percent, agricul-
ture at 5 percent and services at 4 percent over the period. Labor force
growth over the same period was a rapid 5 percent per annum, and productivity
growth 4 percent per annum under the impact of high investment and the intro-
duction of capital-intensive technologies. Private consumption grew at an
accelerating rate; private savings also grew rapidly with rising incomes.
Public consumption was held constant in real terms for three years and real
defense expenditures declined. The investment rate increased from 27 to 29
percent of GDP between 1970 and 1972. Gross savings, normally low, rose
sharply in those years from 4 to 14 percent of GDP. The current account
deficit narrowed from $600 million in 1970 to almost zero in 1972 as a result
of a rapid growth of unilateral transfers. The resource gap was equivalent to
72 percent of investment in 1970, but only 41 percent in 1972. The pressures
generated by rapid growth led to some scarcity of labor, while Government
deficits and large capital inflows raised liquidity and money incomes, raising



-2-
prices and finally generating an import boom. Unemployment dropped to a re-
cord low of 2.5 percent in the first nine months of 1973. Prices rose by about
13 percent in 1971 and 1972 and by 20 percent in 1973; the largest part of the
increase occurred before the October 1973 war. Until then, the Government fo-
cused more on controlling rising prices than on the underlying weakening of
the balance of payments, attempting to control its deficits and employ more
orthodox methods of financing them.
5.        The October 1973 war caused major economic dislocations.     Some 30
percent of the labor force was mobilized. Output fell initially in all sec-
tors except agriculture, but most reached prewar levels again by the second
quarter of 1974. Public consumption and imports rose sharply, as the war led
to a tremendous upsurge in defense expenditures, which doubled to reach IL 12.5
billion ($3 billion), equivalent to 31 percent of GNP in 1973.     This came at a
time when the civilian economy was already overheated and price rises accel-
erating.
6.        Real GDP growth in 1973 was 8 percent.    This reflects national
accounting ccnventions under which defense expenditures contribute to output;
non-defcnse output fell by 4 percent during the year. In 1974, however, GDP
growth slow-d to about 6 percent. The Government introduced a series of fiscal
measures involving large cuts in aggregate demand. Attempts to reduce real
private consumption failed because of trade union strength, particularly
under full employment conditions, the payment of automatic cost-of-living
allowances on basic wages, and possiblv some fall in private savings rates.
Tne continuing high level of defense expenditures (I] 16 billion in 1974) led
to a continuing Government deficit. Sharply rising prices of fuel and other
imports compounded Israel's economic difficulties. The rate of inflation
doubled in 1974 to an unprecedented figure of 40 percent.
7.        The deficit on goods and services was about $1.2 billion in 1971
and 1972. Exports increased in value bv 24 percent in 1973, but imports rose
60 percent, under the impact of booming consumption, world price rises and
defense purchases, so that the deficit on goods and services widened rapidly
t reach $2.6 billion. It was almost matched by unilateral transfers, con-
sisting of restitution payments by Germany, personal cash transfers and
institutional transfers. The transfers were exceptionally high following the
October 1973 war, and reached $2.2 billion in 1973, with the current account
deficit at $400 million. Gross loan inflow before the war was at a rate of
$1 billion per annum and net inflow $600 million, and consisted of U.S.
Government credits, German capital aid and commercial loans. The inflows
permitted a continual increase in foreign exchange reserves, to a peak of
$1.8 billion (gross) at the end of 1973, equivalent to four months' imports
of goods and services.
8.         imports increased by some 29 percent in value in 1974 to $6.7 bil-
lion, rieprly all from price increases for a few key commodities, particularly
oil.   .!ea though Israel was partly shielded from the worldwide oil price in-
-rea_ b.,cause it used oil extracted from the Sinai oil fields, the increase
in thri oil import bill was $450 million, equivalent tco 4.6 percent of 1973
CT R n ard nea-y 9 percent of 1973 imports.  In February 1975, Israel drew $78



- 3 -
million under the 1974 IME oil facility. In 1974, exports increased by 24
percent in value to $3.3 billion, with little volume increase. The deficit
on goods and services widened further to $3.4 billion in 1974 (about 23 per-
cent of GNP). The increase in the deficit in 1973 and 1974 originated mainly
in the deterioration of Israel's terms of trade, and resulted in a consider-
able real resource loss because of the high ratio of exports and imports
to GNP. The exceptional capital inflows of the war year 1973 could not be
repeated. Foreign exchange reserves halved to $0.9 billion by November 1974.
9.        The Government is taking strong measures to reduce demand.   The
proposed 1975/76 budget of IL 56.3 billion is expected to involve no increase,
and perhaps a small decline, in real expenditures. Significant reductions
have been made in subsidies on basic food items, public utilities and petrol-
eum products. The development budget (other than for housing) will be reduced
by 15 percent in real terms in 1975/76, with the cuts concentrated in lower-
priority sectors. Government industrial investment will be expanded and
export-oriented private industrial investment stimulated as much as possible.
In November, the Israel pound was devalued from IL 4.2 to IL 6 to the US
dollar. An import surcharge (more than halved to 15 percent) and correspond-
ing export rebates were retained. The Government expects GDP growth to slow
to 3 percent in 1975. Inflation is expected to slow steadily from its record
level in 1974. The success of this program depends on a stagnation in per
capita private consumption, which requires moderation in wage settlements. In
support of its program, Israel made a drawing from the IMF in November 1974,
and a second in February 1975, under standby arrangements.
10.       The deficit on goods and services in the balance of payments is
expected to stabilize at $3.3 billion in 1975. Israel's exports have become
more competitive as a result of the November 1974 devaluation. Domestic
demand pressures should slacken and cost rises slow under the impact of the
Government's stabilization policies. However, defense imports are expected
to rise again and debt servicing payments are also increasing rapidly. Pro-
jections of foreign inflows depend heavily on developments abroad. Unilateral
transfers are expected to grow very little. The Government projects a $1.4
billion net medium- and long-term capital inflow, about half associated with
the increased defense imports. Even so, reserves are not expected to increase
during 1975. The Government hopes to achieve balance of payments equilibrium
again in 1976, by restraining consumption and preventing domestic cost rises
from threatening the price advantage brought about by the November 1974 deval-
uation. Favorable developments in world market conditions will also be needed
to permit a considerable improvement in the current account. In addition, the
Government has approached the U.S. for a large special aia allocation for
fiscal year 1976.
11.       In addition to its three traditional goals of defense, absorption
of immigrants and rapid economic growth, Israel has in recent years given more
emphasis to social equalization, financial stabilization and the strengthening
of the balance of payments. It is experiencing intense competition for re-
sources between high consumption and Government expenditures (especially sub-
sidies, defense needs, and the costs of absorption of immigrants), exports,



- 4 -
and investment for future growth. The balance of payments has now become the
overriding economic problem, with the critical position in late 1974 and dif-
ficult short-term prospects dictating higher priority for exports and export-
oriented investment, particularly in industrial Droducts and minerals. Growth
depends closely on import capacity and hence on foreign exchange receipts;
however, the current recession and uncertain timing of renewed growth of
Western economies, which are Israel's major markets and sources of capital
inflows, suggest cautious predictions for the short-term growth of Israel's
economy. Thereafter, the presently projected medium-term prospects for the
OECD member countries should permit Israel to achieve faster growth.
12.       As of December 31, 1973, Israel's reported public external debt
(including undisbursed) stood at $4,783 million, made up of $1,339 million in
conventional debt, $1,697 million in military debt and $1,747 million in Israel
Bonds. There has in recent years been some increase in private non-guaranteed
debt. Debt service in 1973 was $520 million and was equivalent to 22 percent
of 1973 exports of goods and non-factor services. If military debt is exclud-
ed from the figures - which may be desirable for inter-country comparisons -
the debt service ratio drops to 15 percent. In addition, many holders of
Israel bonds have rolled them over as they mature and it may be reasonable
to expect them to do so in future if Israel's economic situation required
this. Finally, the regularity of a large part of unilateral transfers to
Israel should also be taken into account in judging Israel's debt s.rvice
burden. The debt service ratio is tentatively estimated to have risen in
194, and is projected to peak at just under 30 percent of exports in 1975,
or some 22 percent excluding military debt. It wouild then decline, slowly at
first and then more rapidly, on the assumption of rapid but feasible export
growth.
13.       Economic manageme-nt may be expected to remain prudent and efficient,
although the task has been greatly complicated by the increase in consumption
and defense expenditures, and the room for manoeuvre reduced by the high debt
service ratio and the fall in reserves which has already taken place. The
Bank's share in total debt outstanding in December 1974 and debt service dur-
ing 1974 was 3 percent in each case; with the growth of the total debt, it is
expected to fall steadily. Provided the debt situation and particularly fur-
ther recourse to short-term credit is carefully monitored, and provided export
incentives are maintained and produce rapid export growth, Israel can support
additional long- and mediun-term debt on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL
14.       The Bank has to date made ten loans to Israel; tihe amount held by
the Bank as of March 1975 totalled $181.5 million. Three loans have been
made to IDBI for financing of industry ($60 million), two to the Israel Bank
of Agriculture for agricultural credit projects ($55 million), one for the
expansion of a potash plant ($25 million), one for the port of Ashdod ($27.4
million), two for highways ($52 million), and one for a national sewerage
project ($30 million). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.



-5-
15.       Foreign exchange earnings and emplovment opportunities are being
increased through the three IDBI loans, which helped finance investment in
export industries, and through the two agricultural credit projects, which
helped finance the production of flowers, fruit and vegetables for the Euro-
pean market, as well as water-saving investments. The two highway projects
and the port project contributed to basic infrastructure improvements needed
to service the growing ecohomy; the sewerage project will help avoid increas-
ing pollution and health hazards while making water available for reuse in
irrigation. Project implementation has on the whole been satisfactory. The
second highway and the sewerage projects, however, have experienced signifi-
cant cost increases, due to rapid inflation in Israel and delay consequent
to the October 1973 war.
16.       IFC made an equity investment in, and a convertible loan to,
t-fakhteshim Chemical Works Limited, a producer of pesticides, in June 1974.
It has under preliminary consideration a second investment in Makhteshim to
expand pesticide production, besides an investment in Haifa Chemicals Limited
to expand production of potassium nitrate.
17.       Israel's relatively high per capita income and its access to sub-
stantial external sources of capital make it a marginal claimant on Bank
resources. Its persistently high capital requirements resulting from a need
to increase productivity and exports in order to improve its balance of pay-
ments have, however, warranted continued Bank assistance up to now. No addi-
tional operations are presently being prepared or contemplated.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES IN ISRAEL
18.       Industry in Israel is mainly privately owned, but subject to con-
siderable Government influence through a pervasive incentives system and Gov-
ernment predominance in providing finance for industrial investment. Indus-
trial output has grown by 12 percent annually since 1970, with employment
growing by 4 percent and productivity by 8 percent. Industry accounted for
24 percent of net domestic product at factor cost in 1973. Clothing, rubber
and plastics products, chemicals, petroleum products, metal products and
diamonds have increased their shares of value added in industry.
19.       Industrial exports grew by 27 percent per annum in value (18 percent
in volume) between 1970 and 1973 to reach $1,188 million and accounted for 87
percent of commodity exports and 45 percent of total foreign exchange earnings.
Polished diamonds remained the largest single item, at $557 million in 1973;
Israel already has a significant share of this market. With industrial ex-
ports growing rapidly, there has been some diversification, with chemicals
and electrical and electronic goods the fastest-growing items, but further
efforts are essential.
20.       Government policy is to promote exports, giving priority to indus-
tries taking advantage of the highly-qualified labor force in Israel, process-
ing local raw materials, or locating in less-developed regions. It provides



a comprehensive package of incentives which are essential to sustain past high
growth of industrial investment and exports. They include development loans,
investment grants in exchange for export coTmitments, and tax incentives,
including rebates on the imported component of exports. Since investment pro-
posals are subjected to careful economic analysis before approval of incen-
tives, interest rates play only a limited allocative role in industry. The
rates on development loans are currently 8, 10 and 12 percent, with the high-
est rate for the most developed central region of Israel. For this region,
the Government is in the process of implementing its decision to apply a
partial indexing to the loans; if the cost of living in a particular year
rises more than 20 percent, the excess will be added to the outstanding prin-
cipal. Since 1970, an import surcharge has provided protection against im-
ports, even though tariffs have been steadily reduced. The Government is
currently considering refining the incentives to increase their emphasis on
exports. Their cost is tentatively estimated at 20 percent of the volume of
industrial investment.
21.       The Government's 1974-78 industrial plan, published in May 1974,
envisages annual expansion of industrial investment at 16 percent and output
at 10 percent in real terms, and exports at between 15 and 18 percent in vol-
ume.  Tineral development and processing are expected to account for a large
share of industrial investment in the next few years and provide a major part
of export growth.   A very large investment program has been drawn up for phos-
phates, salts such as potash extracted from the Dead Sea, and petrochemical
and other chemical products. Exports of metal products and electronics may
be expected to expand rapidly. Import substitution will focus on fertilizers,
other intermediates, and capital goods for the chemical industry and power
generation. 'WN7hile all the plan targets are optimistic, industrial investment
is expected to grow rapidly, since industry must provide the main source of
increased exports. The export targets are feasible, if Israel's main markets
in W*,estern Europe and the US resume growth, and if the price advantage given
by the November 1974 devaluation is not quickly lost through domestic wage
and other cost increases.
22.       Investment in industrial research and development (R&D) is vital
for industrial expansion and export promotion. R&D expenditures in product
design and process engineering are necessary to utilize Israel's limited
natural resources more intensively, make effective use of the high educational
levels and technological skills of its manpower, and develop an indigenous
technology.  Although industrial and university expenditures on R&D in Israel
currently amount to some 1.4 percent of GNP, only 22 percent is applied re-
search done by industry. To orient research more towards commercial applica-
tion, the Government has since 1966 encouraged private sector R&D through
50-50 matching grants for fir,ms lacking the capital necessary to develop new
products or processes. During 1971-73, these grants totalled $10.4 million.
The Government now proposes to provide grants of up to 80 percent of the cost
of selected "projects of national importance", i.e. projects with significant
potential oayoff. Private enterprises are presently unable to undertake these
because they are new and small by international standards, the required R&D
oiitlavs are substantial in re:Lation to their resources, the risks with new
cc7phisticated products are high, and the supply of private venture capital is
relatively insufficient.



- 7 -
23.       Because of large-scale immigration from developed countries, the
labor force in Israel has an unusually high proportion of highly-qualified
people. At the same time, there are shortages of middle- and high-level tech-
nicians, skilled workers, and artisans. To match employment opportunities to
the labor force, the Government encourages science-based industries such as
electrical goods and electronics, scientific instruments, engineering, chem-
icals and plastics. It has also undertaken a comprehensive program of tech-
nical training, involving expansion of vocational and of post-secondary
technical education, retraining and refresher programs, on-the-job-training,
apprenticeship programs, youth centers, and rehabilitation programs.
24.       Since the mid-1960s, the capital market has been a relatively un-
important source of funds for industry. Between 1968 and 1973, enterprises
raised only IL 47.5 million in the form of share capital, due to a steady
decline in stock prices. Institutional investors, the main source of funds,
must invest 85-90 percent of them in Government bonds or Government-approved
securities. In addition, the Government absorbs considerable sums through
compulsory loans. Because of the market situation, new issues need to be
indexed. Between 1968 and 1973, industrial bond issues amounted to only IL
30 million,  Given this situation,   the Government's grants and development
loans have become major sources of long-term financing for industry, account-
ing for 7 and 51 percent respectively of total fixed investment financing
between 1968 and 1973. This enables the Government to exercise wide influence
over the allocation of funds of the financial institutions engaging in term
financing, notably the industrial development banks (including IDBI), and
the public sector companies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
25.       The proposed project was identified in 1973 and 1974.   The Govern-
ment and IDBI prepared it with assistance from Bank missions in May and
July 1974, and appraisal took place in October-November 1974. Negotiations
were held in April 1975 with an Israeli delegation headed by Mr. H. Stoessel,
Accountant-General in the Ministry of Finance; IDBI was represented by Mr.
D. Friedmann, Joint General Manager.
The Project
26.       The project consists of three complementary components supporting
the Government's industrial development strategy:   (i) industriUl financing
through IDBI, of projects producing for exports or which are located in less-
developed regions of Israel; (ii) industrial research and development (R&D),
administered by the Office of the Chief Scientist (OCS) in the Ministry of
Conmerce,and Industry, and involving strengthening of the Government's capa-
city to appraise and supervise R&D programs and support for six identified
and prepared R&D activities; and (iii) vocational/technical training, ad-
ministered by the Ministry of Labor, designed to increase Israel's output



-8-
of middle and high-level technicians and skilled workers to meet projected
manpower shortages.   All project activities would be carried out within
Israel's borders as of January 1, 1967. The project is expected to be com-
pleted in five years.   In view of its composite nature, the Bank loan would
be made to the Government, with on-lending to IDBI for the industrial financ-
ing component. The details are provided hereunder and in the Loan and Proj-
ect Summary in Annex III. A report entitled "Appraisal of an Industrial
Development Project -- Israel" (No. 656a-IS) dated May 7, 1975 is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors.
IDBI Component
27.       Industrial financing under the project, for which $25 million of the
Bank loan is allocated, would be carried out through IDBI. The Bank has so
far provided three loans to IDBI totalling $60 million, all of which have
been satisfactorily implemented. The Government would onlend $25 million from
the proposed Bank loan to IDBI, with amortization substantially in conformity
with the aggregate amortization schedule of IDBI's subloans financed out of
the proposed Bank loan, interest at the Bank's lending rate and a commitment
charge of three-quarters of one percent (L.A. 3.02(a)).    Signing of an on-
lending agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed Bank loan (L.A. 8.01(b)). The funds onlent to IDBI
would support only private sector projects located in the less-develoned
regions of the country, and export-oriented projects wherever located, in
line with the Government's development objectives (L.A. Schedule 2). A good
part of these projects would be in industries employing sophisticated tech-
nologies, which the Government is eager to promote. The Bank funds are ex-
pected to be committed by June 30, 1977. About half of IDBI's recent lending
has been for terms of 6-8 years, and about one-third for 9-13 years and
occasionally more; however, its pipeline contains a number of large projects
with long gestation periods which will require an increasing proportion of
loans with the longer maturities. Sub-loans to be financed from the Bank
loan would have a maximum maturity of 13 years.    IDBI's lending rates are
set in accordance with Government policy on development loans (see para. 20)
and are expected to average between 10 and 11 percent on Bank-funded sub-
loans; IDBI's spread will average 1-3/4 percent.    IDBI makes its loans in
Israeli currency. The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk, in
accordance with arrangements to which the Bank agreed under the third loan
to IDBI, and with the prevailing practice regarding private companies. In
view of IDBI's capacity and past performance, the free limit on sub-loans
would be raised from $750,000 to $1,000,000, with an aggregate free limit of
$12,500,000 (L.A. 3.01(b) and (c)).
28.       IDBI has an experienced management team and competent staff and is
efficiently run. It has a notable record of performance since its creation
in 1957, in terms of both financial assistance to industry and development
impact. It continues to be the most important development finance institu-
tion in Israel, with assets of IL 2.4 billion as of September 30, 1974, and
loan approvals which have increased in amount by 30 percent per annum since
1968. It provided 30 percent of total financing for industrial investment
between 1969 and 1974. IDBI is also an important instrument of Government
industrial policy. Its portfolio is diversified and sound. Arrears are well



-9-
within acceptable limits and provisions for losses are adequate. Administrative
expenses are low.  Earnings have shown steady growth and have represented a
return of 15-16 percent on non-Government held share capital in recent years.
IDBI's project appraisal methods pay suitable regard to economic criteria, and
its follow-up work will be strengthened by the recruitment of additional staff.
29.       IDBI has been reasonably successful in mobilizing resources abroad.
Between July 1970 and June 1974, it raised $155 million equivalent in foreign
loans and debentures, including loans from a dozen new sources in the US and
Western Europe. This represented about one-half of its total resource require-
ments. At home, the Government's policies have restricted IDBI's access to
the capital market. However, the Government has willingly provided a large
part of IDBI's local currency needs, as part of its program of development
loans, and plans to remain its major source of such funds. IDBI forecasts
ccommitments of IL 2.8 billion (some $470 million) over the period July 1975 -
- June 1977, based on its pipeline and realistic projected growth rates of
industrial investment. About half will be in local currency and will be
covered by internally generated funds, debentures, and loans or other receipts
from Government, which will cover any shortfall. About half of the foreign
currency requirements totalling IL 1.4 billion, or some $240 million equiva-
lent, will be covered from existing lines of credit or new loans at various
stages of negotiation. The rest will be covered by as yet unidentified
sources, and by the proposed Bank funding of $25 million, equivalent to 10
percent of requirements. IDBI will have to further intensify its resource
mobilization effort abroad, and is expected to continue its past success.
30.       IDBI has reached and, as a direct result of the November 1974 de-
valuation, possibly exceeded the limit of 3:1 on its overall debt-equity
ratio agreed under the previous Bank loan. This ratio is conservative for
an institution as financially strong as IDBI, and it would be raised to 5:1
under the proposed loan (P.A. 3.03(a)). IDBI's ratio of secured debt to
equity would also be raised, from 2:1 to 5:1 (P.A. 5.01). Even so, IDBI
is expected to experience some pressure to increase its equity base. IDBI
has agreed that its loans and advances to, or investments in, subsidiaries
in which it has a majority shareholding would not exceed 20 percent of its
own unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves (P.A. 3.02). IDBI
has operated over the years with a current ratio less than one, keeping its
resources fully committed and relying for short-term needs on its long-
standing arrangements with the Bank of Israel. It will continue to have its
accounts audited by independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank
(P.A. 3.01 (b)).
31.       Between 1974 and 1979 IDBI's loan portfolio is expected to grow by
28 percent per annum. Net earnings would grow by 13 percent per annum to
provide an increasing rate of return on share capital, even though the equity
base is likely to be expanded. Debt service coverage is projected to be satis-
factory. IDBI's liquidity, provisions against losses, and build-up of other
reserves, are projected to be sufficient. Overall, IDBI's financial position
is sound.



- 10 -
Industrial Research and Development Component
32.       The industrial research and development (R&D) component, for which
$5 million of the Bank loan is allocated, is the first of its kind to be fi-
nanced by the Bank. It would assist OCS to make technological, financial and
commercial appraisals of R&D proposals and supervise their implementation.
The Bank loan would also help finance six identified and prepared R&D activi-
ties with industrial and commercial application, which have been closely de-
fined (L.A. Schedule 2, Annex B).   The first is the expansion of facilities
of the Negev Research and Development Authority, which is associated with the
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and provides R&D and technical services
to industrial enterprises and university laboratories, by the provision of a
unit process laboratory and a testing service facility. Of the other five
R&D activities, two are subprojects at the stage of pre-commercial development
(ponds to collect and store solar energy, liquid wax from jojoba beans), while
three involve the development of commercial prototypes (rural telephone system,
a range of prime movers (engines), improved tomographic scanner (for X-ray
diagnosis)).
33.       The six activities proposed for Bank funding were selected after
appraisal of nine "projects of national importance" submitted by the Govern-
ment. All nine were reviewed for their commercial and technological feasibil-
ity and potential spin-offs; potential benefit to Israel's economy; usefulness
of the prospective technology to other developing countries; and overall
capability of the undertaking entity. Those projects involving private firms
wcere also reviewed for possibility of market success; inability of the sponsor-
ing finr to borrow for R&D or self-finance; and the experience, ability to
commiercialize technology, and financial strength of the firms. The ability
of the Negev R&D Authority to render R&D services not generally available to
tn* industrial community was considered in the appraisal of this subproject.
OCS will launch these projects along with a similar group not funded by
the Bank, together selected a, the most promising so far prepared.
34.       Since its creation four years ago, OCS has administered the rela-
;vely small matching grant program for R&D.     To handle much larger and more
imoortant R&D projects, it needs to develop not only the technological ap-
prraisal capability typical of a scientific research granting agency, but also
financial and commercial expertise sufficient for it to review competently
proposals for R&D on a timetable leading to prototypes and products with
specifications and selling prices dictated by a market. To do this, OCS is
expected to strengthen and double its professional staff to a total of 25 by
Mlarch 1976, and to continue a rapid expansion thereafter. The Government
would provide the funds needed for this build-up (L.A. 5:01(a)). To help
determine future priorities for the R&D activities it finances, OCS would
establish a Policy Advisory Committee with representatives from industry,
Government and the academic technological community (L.A. 5.03(a)).
35.       Appraisal of R&D activities will be continuous.    OCS will establish
standing review committees, organized by technological sector, each to handle
up to four projects of national importance.    Each will include at least two
OCS staff members, one.designated as monitor for the project being reviewed,



or as an assistant monitor, to provide continuity within OCS and work and be
trained under the supervision of an outside monitor, in cases where OCS does
not yet have qualified staff. Committee members would have technological,
financial, marketing and business planning expertise (L.A. 5.03(b)). So far,
committees covering electronics, machines, and industrial crops have been
created, and will supervise four of the six project activities. Others will
be set up for the Negev R&D Authority and solar ponds. Initial appraisal will
establish the project activities, a timetable, and outline plans for the
production stage (including indications of the sources of finance) for com-
mercial projects. As the project progresses, the monitor will prepare
quarterly and comprehensive annual reports to the Chief Scientist, based on
the sponsor's reports, reviewing progress against the agreed timetable,
technological and market developments affecting ultimate success, and the
revised market studies presented by sponsors. The committee will review
these, recommending assistance to resolve difficulties or termination of
support, as appropriate.
36.       No disbursements from the loan would be permitted   for any of the
activities proposed for Bank financing until a review committee has been es-
tablished to supervise it, and until OCS and the sponsor have entered into an
agreement satisfactory to the Bank (L.A. Schedule 1, para 4 (b)(i). The
reports covering Bank-funded activities would be submitted, with the review
committee's and the Chief Scientist's recommendations, to the Bank (L.A. 5.05
(b)(i)). Material changes would be made only with Bank approval; an under-
standing was reached that if financing of any of the subprojects were term-
inated, the Bank would permit one substitution, provided initial appraisal
proved feasible and the new subproject justified.
37.       OCS would enter into arrangements with the sponsors of Bank-funded
commercial subprojects providing, inter alia, that if successful products are
developed, they would be licensed for use in other developing countries on
reasonable conditions; that sponsors would contribute between one and four
percent of sales of such products for ten years to a special Government fund
to finance other R&D "projects of national importance", thus permitting flex-
ibility in the light of experience and the financial structure and performance
of the firm; and that no reference would be made to the Bank in product ad-
vertising or promotional literature (L.A. Schedule 6). Ownership of the
technology will, as is normal in Israel, rest with the sponsors. An under-
standing was reached that OCS would report to the Bank annually on the Negev
R&D Authority's degree of autonomy, activities, emphasis on contract applied
research, budget, staffing, work program, methods of project selection, and
internal financial controls, as well as furnish regularly updated assessments
of the likely demand by industry for R&D infrastructure facilities.
38.       In supervising this project component, the Bank would draw on the
work of the monitors and review committees. OCS has already hired consulting
accountants and would set up an accounting system designed to ensure full
accountability on Bank-funded subprojects (L.A. 5.05 and 5.06). The Govern-
ment would provide the Bank with that part of the Accountant-General's annual
financial report to the State Comptroller dealing with OCS operations, as well



- 12 -
as any evaluation reports on OCS operations produced by the State Comptroller.
Finally, OCS has agree to hire monitors (when no qualified OCS staff are
available) and consultants to assist in reviewing Bank-funded subprojects if
the Bank deems it necessary. In addition, OCS might in consultation with the
Bank hire consultants to assist OCS in developing its system of R&D management
and in handling other R&D projects of national importance (L.A. 5.02). A sumi
of $150,000 would be allocated out of the proposed Bank loan to meet the
foreign exchange costs involved (L.A. Schedule 1). Two years after completion
of each subproject, OCS would prepare and submit to the Bank a completion
report, covering inter alia the further development and commercial history
of, and the benefit to Israel and other developing countries from, the product.
One year after completion of the whole R&D component, OCS would submit to the
Bank a comprehensive report assessing its overall impact (L.A. 5.05(b)(iii)
and (iv)).
Vocational/Technical Training Component
39.       The project includes an allocation of $5 million from the Bank loan
to help finance the expansion of training facilities and programs sufficient
to meet about 35 and 30 percent respectively of the shortages of skilled
workers and technicians projected for 1985. It comprises constructicn and
equipping of the expansion of one technician/practical engineering institute
(Beersheva); equipment only for two more (Haifa and Jerusalem); construction
and equipping of the expansion of three vocational training centers (Haifa,
Jerusalem, and Holon - near Tel Aviv); and equipment for a fourth one (Tel
Aviv). These expansions would increase the number of student places in proj-
ect institutions, by 760 (54 percent) at technician/practical engineering
institutes and by 850 (167 percent) at vocational training centers. The proj-
ect would also provide the additional equipment needed to meet new program
requirements or replace obsolete equipment.
40.        The technician/prac:tical engineering institutes provide post-second-
ary courses lasting one year (for technicians) or two years (for senior tech-
nicians or practical engineers), with an additional six to twelve months de-
voted to preparation of a research project in their respective fields of spe-
cialization.   The proposed project institutions will concentrate on training
programs in electrical/electronics fields and mechanical, instrumentation and
controls, and automation technology. The vocational training centers admit
trainees after 9-10 years of full-time schooling for courses varying in
length from three to thirteen months. The proposed project institutions
offer courses focusing on metalwork, mechanics, electricity/electronics,
carpentry, needle trades and drafting.
41.       To implement and coordinate all aspects of this project component,
a Project Unit would be established within the Ministry of Labor's Department
of Vocational Training. The appointment of a qualified and experienced proj-
ect director, equipment procurement coordinator and accountant, would be-con-
ditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (L.A. 4.01 and 8.01 (c)).



- 13 -
42.       Due to the urgent need for the extensions to facilities included in
the project items, qualified consultant architects have been selected to pre-
pare preliminary designs in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
They would also supervise construction, along with participating institutions
and the Ministry of Labor (L.A. 4.02). Space standards are based on detailed
schedules consistent with accommodation requirements. Equipment and furniture
needs have been appraised and detailed lists will be submitted for Bank ap-
proval prior to procurement. All project institutions will be cost-effective,
with double-shift working.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The proposed loan would provide $35 million to finance these three
components. Out of this amount, $25 million would be onlent to IDBI to meet
a part of the foreign cost component of IDBI's expected total commitments of
IL 2.8 billion (some $470 million) over the two-year period July 1975 to
June 1977.
44.       $5 million would be used to cover 60 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of industrial R&D expenditures under the project. The total cost of this
component is estimated at $22.3 million, and $5.6 million would come from
sponsors' own funds, $6.1 million in medium-term loans from banks (possibly
including IDBI) for equipment purchase and construction, and $5.6 million from
the Government. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be passed to sponsors as
a grant. The Government's contribution would provide $3.4 million to complete
the foreign exchange requirements, and $2.2 million to cover local expenditures.
The Government's proposed financing arrangements will ensure that each R&D
sponsor has an important interest in the success of his subproject.
45.       Vocational/technical training expenditures under the project are
expected to total $15.8 million, with a foreign cost component of $5.2 mil-
lion. These expenditures would be financed by $5.0 million from the proposed
Bank loan, virtually covering the foreign cost component, and $10.8 million
from the Government. The Government would also provide the annual running
costs of project institutions, estimated at $5.7 million.
Procurement
46.       Procurement in the case of industrial lending through IDBI would
take place through normal commercial channels. IDBI usually asks its clients
for quotations from more than one supplier and satisfies itself that the
quality and price are the best obtainable. For the industrial R&D component,
civil works contracts would be let by sponsors following normal local competi-
tive procedures. Bank funds would not be used to finance these works, which
amount to only US$1.4 million and involve three subprojects in different
locations. R&D equipment is- to a considerable extent specialized and pro-
prietary. The individual items are of relatively small value and procurement



- 14 -
is spread over a period of up to five years; bulking is not feasible. Fur-
thermore, there is adequate representation of foreign suppliers locally to
ensure competition. As at present, OCS would satisfy itself about the need
for the equipment, the actual purchase and use, and its cost. However, OCS
would require the sponsor to request quotations from at least three suppliers
if the value of each item is over US$20,000. For vocational/technical training
expenditures, civil works and equipment supply contracts, except for residual
equipment, would be awarded following international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans; furni-
ture would be locally procured and would not be financed out of the proposed
loan. Local manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a preferential margin
of 15 percent of the CIF costs of competing imports or the existing rate of
customs duty, whichever is the lower. Bid comparisons would be made in ac-
cordance with the Bank's guidelines on the application of domestic preferences
in bid evaluation. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to form
sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. Up to 20 percent of
equipment contracts may be won by local bidders, including 10 percent ($300,000)
in residual items. The Project Unit would be responsible for all aspects of
bidding on equipment and would coordinate with the Department of Public Works
with respect to bidding on civil works. No foreign firms are expected to
submit bids on civil works, given the relatively small size and widespread
locations of project items and the well developed construction industry in
Israel (L.A. Schedule 5).
Disbursement
47.       The part of the proposed Bank loan relent to IDBI would finance the
foreign exchange component of IDBI's subloans, which is the c.i.f. cost of
equipment procured directly from abroad and is estimated at 50 percent of the
cost of goods produced outside Israel and purchased from local suppliers, and
2o percent of the cost of goods produced in Israel (L.A. 3.01(a)). For the
industrial R&D component, the proposed Bank funding would finance 60 percent
uf the CIF cost of imported equipment and materials, and the foreign exchange
cost of consultant services obtained from outside Israel, up to the specified
limit of Bank funding for each activity and for technical assistance to OCS.
For the vocational/technical training component, disbursement for equipment
would he on the basis of 100 percent of the CIF cost or ex-factory price, and
18 percent of the estimated total cost of civil works, including professional
services (L.A. Schedule 1). This latter percentage would be adjusted as
necessary, to distribute disbursements over the period of implementation.
Project Justification
48.       The IDBI component would directly help to improve Israel's diffi-
cult balance of payments situation through expansion of industrial exports,
the Government's main policv aim. IDBI has a notable record of support of
economically viable projects as well as mobilization of external resources.
BoLli can be expected to be maintained. The project would further another
..mportant Government policy objective, that of spreading industry to
less-developed regions.



- 15 -
49.       The industrial R&D component is complementary to lending through
IDBI. It would assist Israel to develop institutional mechanisms to appraise
and supervise R&D projects and link them to production and marketing, both at
the enterprise level and within the Government's supervisory apparatus. The
Bank would participate in the institution-building process, gaining new in-
sights which might be applied as appropriate in other developing countries.
The component would also assist Israel in making more effective use of its
large body of scientists and technologists in expanding exports of science-
based industries. The products to be developed could lead to substantial
exports for Israel and also benefits for other developing countries to which
the technology developed might be licensed.
50.       Estimates of the financial rates of return, if successful, for the
three R&D sub-projects where these are amenable to quantification are high;
the economic rates of return are acceptable to high. However, they are neces-
sarily based on tentative estimates of sales and costs and will need to be
recalculated regularly as development progresses. R&D activities involve
technological, financial and commercial risks which are greater than for
developments involving known technologies. These risks have been minimized,
in the case of the proposed activities, by careful initial appraisal and by
the institution of a review process which will continuously monitor their pro-
gress and developments which could affect their ultimate success. The risks
involved are acceptable.
51.       The vocational/technical training component would complement the
other two. It would support the Government's soundly conceived manpower
strategy by meeting about one-third of the projected shortages of skilled
workers and middle and high-level technicians, particularly in industry,
through a substantial increase in the number of training places and greater
efficiency and qualitative improvement in their use. It would particularly
assist early leavers from the formal school system and adult workers requiring
retraining for productive employment in a changing labor market.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the State of Israel and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Industrial Development Bank
of Israel Limited, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolu-
tion approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
53.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 32 to 38 of this Report.
54.       Additional conditions of effectiveness are:



- 16 -
(i)  signing of a satisfactory relending agreement between the
Government and IDBI (para 27);
(ii)  appointment of a project director, equipment procurement
coordinator, and accountant for the project unit to carry
out the vocational/technical training component (para 41).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOITIENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 7, 1975



ANNEX I
Peg. 1 or 3 Pages
0)U0Th? DATA -ISRAEL
AREA                                               POPULATION                                   ffXMfl
70,700    lee                                         T 3.0  f11oe   (mid-1972)                              Pr)2faal            w
SOCIAL IDISCAT0OR
Referenc Ceounttes
I srael                  Sinvapore    Greece    Fi-lendo
GNP PER CAPITA U3$ (ATLAS BASIS) /I                             1, ?0, /a     ' 610 /t2        1,300/2      1 ,oh  /t     2,810 /2
Crud  bir-th rote (pee thou-ad)                                 ti           2 69 /2          ?l~.         t5./b        12.    d
Crude death rate (per thrunad)                                                    U                              b i     9 3 /d
Infant mortality rate (per thousand jive hirthe)                                             20    k       25/            3/
Life exectancy- et birth (years)                                -0                                            0            70L
Population gosath rate2h                                                                                                 04
Populatio  grow.th rate  - uban                                              1.019
Age.:u;r       (eu.u
0506    yu                                                   58 7                                c9 -P.                     4
Lcoe"cde,cry    C;c. /2                                                                                             l7 
Ormen oupulti-on. preoat of total                                70, ..8..                    100u ~/       53 /,,P     57.1 2/d2
Fustly Thlueci,g: No of accptors es1olti-e (theus.)                                            .
No. oruf  r  (I of carried eases)             . 
Total.1  c  forc  (thous-ds)                                    7 06       3,100 /d.          730        3,300 c/5     2,2~00 /
Peroottago sepivyrd in egrirulture             <~~~~~~~~~~~~7                 3             o /P       10.1 /b
Po. ulg,. oocsjlyod                                                          3   t  g        ID               23        .
10100?, DSTiRIBUTION
PF-r7ioca.tioaiivue        rcivej by highest 5%                  13 /lo,      13 /y 
Per. n   f   t reiou incm  recived by bigeast 20%                39 4yce      388L 
Pecooc_t of_ctilclIncoe    rcived by lowest 20%                   7/,             2.
Porno,- ofnotonel Ilcvcu. received by Ioamet LQ%                ?0            7 0 / 
iJISTh[PIBT1o;; OF LAND O6MJjSdSiIP
% .(.d bytqlcT5%_ cf eansee
HEALTHi iND NUTRITIOP
Po_puleti-r pe  p~hyscctoe                                      110 /2       100/           1_5202         620          980
Population per nursing peron                                    ..210/                        1,6o        1,1l,o 2       80 L
Pepulothon per bospital had                                     15Cco        170              270           160           80
Per ouplta coborin supply as % of requirestaoe/                 109 40       116              1i3 /Ab       106          Ill
Per capite protein supply, total (grams Per day)/6               8I, P        92               63 (50        99           91
Of shich, oiceol sod pulse                                     Li3 zf       L9/2..           3L 2          5-2,'/       6025
Death rate I -v Y-cr  I? .7-                                                 1.0/             ..0.9 /2                   0.7
EDUCATION
AdJUsted .'8 -i-ory sch-cI.. ouoltent -atin                     100           91.2            105 laf       109 (A!        98
AdJ_nted /8 eood.ry -ched    enrollment ratio                    LB           56 42             7  -         60           75
Yeaf,o   suh_liut provided, first and aecond leve                17           12               12            02           1
Vocational s-elleet as 5 of sac. school e..rolleont              29           1. 29                          20 2         30
Adublt litarocy rate 5                                          ...                            7,/eg,ah      82 ~gl       99
Av-r,geA. N- ofsrO-c- per room (urban)                          .../                         2.9     k .1  0.9/2 i3     lILB
Pecnt o unule         oiuathanttpiped water                     .              1~20 Iaca                     35 /2    ~    oSa
Acco.soto elctn icit  (aes  of total population)                ..97 /pan                      87 ___        8i a          96
Percetnf gora.l populations connected to electrIcity            ...                            .73 (a                     91
CONSUMPTION0
R.dSTW2 -sscirs per 110)0 Ppeletisn                              191          221 /2           10i/          112/         LI 13/b
Ps.s...e  cars..  per 1(50 popullation                           13           65                a, 8         IL91/        163 /
Electric peoer cenecoeption (komb p.c.)                       1,165 If      2,753 2         1,161,/       1,53/        525PI
Dewopriet esnecuption p.c. kg per year                          6.0         10.9,/           10.1,l         5.6 b2      18.7
Delco.  Figures cefor either to the latest periede or to             ecn.fevr,asa             temperature, body siiEbte, and
the 1blest yoc.-   lonoec periods refer in pr-niple to               dietetbotlen by age end ceo of natioeal pepolatiene.
the yearu 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latoest years io prii._       /6   lrovts e taodarda (rawstrameant.) f-cc1 all  -trime me eatab-
riple to 1960 cod 1970.                                              liahud by 10)DA Esenoinde Raaaorh Serielo  preside fsr a miniumo
/2The Per Cepitu GISP el   t  is at market prOmo roe               olocanse of 60 gracs of total pre.tls per day, 0,5 20 grom    of
mac- -oti,-r th-c 19500 -oculsted by the vane cos-er.ios         unini and pclee protein, of which 10 gram. ubh-ld be moieu-
tontoique as the 1972 World Bob Atlloy.                          pr-teo.   These stan,dardso are somewhat 1eae  than th.ee of 75
A orrge ouster of doughtere per aemon of reprdu-tive              graze  of total pretein and 23 gramo of aactwal protein as an
g.9                                                              overage for the seld, prepeced by PAO in the Third Warld Thed
/2  opeolul-  r-wth rates are for t-he denudes ending in           Surey.
19,60 and 1970.                                              /7  Sane studies have euggested that erode death ratee of childrmn
/2  Ratio of pepultion under 15 and 65 and ever to ppsula-           atae 1 through 1, say be uced ae a fical approlmiatlon Index of
11cr, of sges 15-61, fer age dependency ratIo and to labor   e8 al-ottrtie.n
5fence o.f ages 15-61, f-reosi      dependency ratio.          /8  Parantags enoelled of oo-repondivg population of eschool Age
/1FAG rference eta"drds repreacon. piyaiolugioaa    m-a               defined for nubh coatry.
qairmacctn fur sereo ontloity and henith, taking
a  Cueputed.bytapply'ing tn tRe 1870 figure the growth rate of the GOP/rep. in ree~l tea-ee free, 1960 ts 197n;   lb   1979;
Data tahul.aed by year hr regietnatien rather then ereuranre;       Zd  1973;    La  Jewish population;    If. 19Ur
La 1970-75 estivate;   2h   1966-70;   LA. 1960-72;   a4   All eettle,mete of ears than 2,000 inhabitante, eccpt thoee where
at leas.t use third of the heads of houeeholds participoting in civilian labor fsrce, mar their living free agriculture
lb   3961 census dots;    /I  City of Singapore;    /2  A4uunlrpolttier and r-sunes in hlich the largest populaliuc center has
10,000 ic ur    lhahitanto end the popolation of 12 ether whean ogglomeratione irrespective of their pupolotiun1
/n  trbe  cuun       2  Inclubdes data relatisg to certain territories under -c-pation hy Israeij Juitacy fuors. sinces
June 1967;   12 971;      /2  Includiog data fur East Jersaslen;     /r Inoludee peresse   who did not ourb in, the. cuntry
woo-tg tinph   oln   nacloe eonthn;   Ls  Excluding pernsc. Ic cc-pu'scry' military service, and persoos ceekiog conk fur
Eve fore- ocr     /2   Doloding sined Curses;     A  Exclurtiw( un-s'loyed seaeen;   2   Jewish wage eorrers   house.holds;
"c I 57-55!       I'lI6?;  Z2  HNte'r on the register, sot afl airking iolie country;      2z  1969;    /2pa  Coverage of data
nroh_un    (    161-66;    lao  1969- 70;   /ad  1967;   /2.  1970-71;    ZL' lucluden overage studeos;      /2M   15 Yearn
-0 0c;      h~ DefCioLi-c unIsouwc;   1st   Dsta refer to h-oceolds in cove-tie...l deellinge;      /2j Totol , urb-an sd
r-ra;    1.4   1966;   /al  lUD  eslatiet;   Lam  Inside or cutsidr;    Lot PcIeretage cf occupied d-elliogo;     /ao  Ic.de..
Flisci.,  nan b,- urlecoud ana    bjective c-untry bec.auv  its p-c capita income and poypciticor ore ninA ar Lc Lb_e
82 March 11, 1975



AYO'EX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
080R55 IN,TIO0NAL PR8D0i!ST IN 1973                                  ANNlJAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, 1970 constant vrices)
V03.t Mln.                                -   . 1902 -61 l967 -72            1973
;'!l' t M;irkct ?i fces       9.709   1C0.0                                             P3t6              7.5
lro(o, s  nDestic Investnent   3.092        ni.6                        1.,             1G.             125
Gross National davinO            743         7 J        
Cui roolt Accooint Balance     2.349        1. 2
Z:   Lacrbs of uoals, NFS      2. 527,      26.                        11 .7             1_.7             0.6
Isnort3 otf Giccd3, NFS        4.931        s0.8 C                                       13.c            33.2
OU7TPUT'I, LABGR 'OFRCE AND
P.RCDIUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ lln.    _                    '00        %                   U0 
Agriculture                      493         5 5                93      7.9                  5.355       74.1
Industrv  e3.120                            76.7               418      35.5                 7.464      10,.2
Services                       4,893        57.5               637     54.1                  7,681      106.2
Unalelocatea.                                                   29       2.5
,5~I1     100.0                1,177     T.                   7.231       10.0
GOVERINMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Central Government
(IL  Mln.)      _% of GDP                     (_I  Mlln.)       % ofs GDP
19'? 2       197Y     1969-71                   1972       1972         1i969  71
Current Receipts                  12.304         39.7          77.1               11,479       37.0           34.2
Current Expenditure               14 921         48.2          49.5               14 ,325      46.2           47.1
Current Surplus                  - 2.-517                     124                - 2,74b  Y.2  17
Capital Expenditures               2.977          9.3           9.9                2,365        7.6            8.6
External Assistance (net)          2,950           9.5          9.7                2,950        9.5            9.7
Septemb,r
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1969         1972        1973         1974
(Million Ig outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    8,051       16,401      20,539       23,263
Bank credit to Public Sector             2,85        4,4OO       4,725        7,498
Bank Credit to Private Sector            4,550)       8,302      11,635       15,h59
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % o1 GDP         48.2         51.6        49.3          ,.  1/
General Price Index (1963 = 100)         130.1        17h.5       209.2       292.6
Annual percentage char.ges ins                                                     1/
General Price Index                        2.5         12.9        20.0        39.8
Bank credit to Public Sector              86.2        - 5.6       - 3.6        78.3
Bank credit to Private Sector             21.6         24.6        40.1        4,.8
...'c: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
not available
not applicable



ANNMX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLO'WS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971-73)
1968     1972      1973                                                 US $ Mln    x
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,029     2,002     2,393
Imports of Goods, NFS        - 1,699    2,923    4,771                Polished diamonds                    404      33
Resource Gap (deficit = -) -                         M - 91  - 7378   Textiles and clothing                130      10
Citrus                               111       9
Interest Payments (net)          -80     -136      -164               Chemicals, rubber and plastics       100       8
Workers' Remittances              16       21        24               Food,beverages and tobacco             95      8
Other Factor Payments (net)       16     - 65      - 79               Machinery& other metal products       71       6
Net Transfers                   t435    1,053     2,188               All other commodities                325      26
Current Account Balance        - 283       4      -70W9                    Total                         L     236 100
Direct Foreign Investment        39       108       136             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                480     1,012    1,232                                                          US $ Mln
Amortization                 229Z1     432 LI   420 L4
Subtotal                     251       580      812                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             4,520
Capital Grants                             -        -                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt (1972)           332
Other Capital (net)                5       35        3
Other items n,e i                6       -    6
Increase in Reserves (       /3  -2       669      578              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973-      %28
Gross Reserves (erd year)       894     2,503    3,510
Net Reserves    (end year)      601       991    1,517                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              21.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt and other      6.5
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed             28.2
Imports                        63        97      210
Exports
IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1975)(Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                         IBRD        IDA
Through    11/9/1974            Since 11/10/1974                Outstanding & Disbu                    77 5
UIS 1. 00 = US $0 24          US $ 1. 00 = I  6 00           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         181.5
1/     Amortization figures include some prepayments pn bonds and some payments in local currency.
2      Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
31      Does not match change in net reserves because of valuation adjustments.
not available
not applicable
May 7, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ISRAL
A.     STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at larch 31, 1975)
US$ Million _
Loan                                                               oWtessTndis-
Number     Year    Borrower                 Purose               cancellations)    bursed
Seven loans fully disbursed                                            129.1          -
685        1970    IDBI III                 Development                 25.0         2.6
Finance
781        1971    State of Israel.         Roads II                    30.0        25.2
869        1972    State of Israel          Sewerage                    30.0        28.6
972        1974    Israel Bank of           Agricultural                35.0        21.1
Agriculture Ltd.         Credit II
Total                                                      249.4
of which has been repaid                                    67.9
Total now outstanding                                      11.7
Amount sold                           5.1
of which has been repaid
Total now held by Bank   /                                 181.5
Total undisbursed                                                        77.5
B.     STATHMEZT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1975)
Type of               Amount in US$ million
Year       Obligor                          Business             Loan    Equity   Total
197)       Makhteshim Chemical              Pesticides           1.75     1.75     3.50
Works Ltd.
Total gross commitments                               1.75    1.75      3.50
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                   -        -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                     1.75      7       3.50
Total undisbursed                                       _
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 689:    Third Industrial Finance Project; $25.0 Million Loan of June
15, 1970; Closing Date: (Original) June 30, 1973, (current)
June 30, 1975.
IDBI was granted extensions of the terminal dates for submission
of projects and for disbursements. The delay in utilizing the loan is attri-
butable mainly to the need for IDBI to reappraise several large projects fol-
lowing the 1971 devaluation, and to IDBI's efforts to use existing lines of
credit tied to sources of procurement wherever possible. IDBI successfully
mobilized large foreign resources during the period of the loan. It also
improved its analysis of the economic justification of subprojects. The
loan is fully committed and IDBI expects to disburse it completely before
the current closing date.
Ln. No. 781:    Second Highway Construction Project; $30.0 Million Loan of
July 14, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Difficulties in obtaining right-of-way, extension of bidding periods,
and mobilization of equipment during and after the October 1973 war are ex-
pected to result in a delay of up to eighteen months in the original construc-
tion program. Because of two devaluations of the Israel pound in August 1971
and November 1974, and rapid inflation in Israel, costs for the original proj-
ect are expected to rise by 68 percent. The Government has submitted pro-
posals to revise the scope of the project to fit with the financing available.
Ln. No. 869:   National Sewerage Project; $30 Million Loan of December 21,
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
After a slow start, progress is now improving and is satisfactory.
Completion of the original project would now take fifteen months longer than
estimated at appraisal. The two devaluations and rapid inflation in Israel
hiave increased cost estimates for the original project by 50 percent. The
Government intends to complete the project, but over a longer period than
originally foreseen, and is reconsidering construction priorities to extract
maximum benefit from the early years of project execution.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



AJJNLX II
IPage 3 of 3
Ln. No. 972:    Second AgTicultural Credit Project:    $35 Million Loan of
April 3, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Progress of project activities has been very good.     As of March
31, 1975, disbursements were $13.9 million.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ISR-AFL - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUT2MARY
Borrower:            State of Israel
Beneficiary:         Industrial Development Bank of Israel Limited (IDBI)
Amount:              $35.0 million in various currencies.
Terms:               (i) $25 million on-lent to IDBI:   Amortization substan-
tially in conformity with the aggregate amortization
schedule of IDBI's sub-loans, not to exceed 13 years,
financed from the proceeds of the loan; (ii) $5 million
for industrial research and development (R&D) and $5
million for vocational/technical training: Amortiza-
tion over 15 years including 5 years grace.
Interest standard.
Relending Terms:     $25 million onlent to IDBI, repayable substantially in
conformity with aggregate amortization schedule of IDBI's
sub-loans financed from the proceeds of the loan, with
interest at the Bank's lending rate and a commitment charge
of 3/4 percent per annum. In turn, IDBI would relend to
its sub-borrowers for a maximum period of 13 years and at
interest rates of 8, 10 or 12 percent per annum, depending
on subproject location.
Project              The project consists of three components:
Description:
(i) Provision of $25 million to meet part of IDBI's
requirements for financing of the import component
of specific industrial projects aimed at producing
for export or located in less-developed regions;
(ii) Provision of $5 million to help finance imported
equipment, materials and consultants' services
estimated at 25 man-months required for
(a)  strengthening the Government's capacity to
appraise and supervise industrial R&D projects;
(b)  establishment of a basic R&D facility for
the Negev R&D Authority at Beersheva con-
sisting of a unit process laboratory and
a testing service facility: and



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(c) five R&D subprojects to develop a prototype
non-convecting pond to collect and store solar
energy; commercial cultivation of the jojoba
bean and a family of commercial waxes derived
from it; a telephone system for communities
of between 100 and 400 subscribers; a family
of engines compatible with a variety of
energy sources; and a high-performance
tomographic scanner;
(iii) Provision of $5 million to help finance expansion of
(a) three technician/practical engineering in-
stitutes, to provide some 760 additional
student places, involving construction and
equipment at Beersheva and equipment only
at Haifa and Jerusalem; and
(b) four vocational training centers, to pro-
vide some 850 additional student places,
involving construction and equipment at
Haifa, Jerusalem and Holon and equipment
only at Tel Aviv.
Estimated Cost:                                         Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) ----
(i)  Industrial finance (IDBI)              25.0
(ii)  Industrial R & D              13.9      8.4    22.3
(iii) Vocational/technical
training                    10.6      5.2    15.8
Financing Plan:                               Other    R & D
Govt.    IDBI     Banks   Sponsors   Bank     Total
Industrial R & D      5.6      --   6.1  --        5.6      5.0     22.3
Vocational/technical
training    10.8                                   5.0     15.8
Estimated Disbursement:             1975   1976    1977    1978   1979   1980
Annual           1.5    7.8    13.1    10.0    2.5    0.1
Cumulative      1.5    9.3    22.4     32.4   34.9   35.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements:       (i)  For industrial financing (IDBI):
Through normal commercial channels
(ii) For industrial R & D:
R&D equipment is to a considerable extent specialized
and proprietary. The individual items are of relatively
small value and procurement is spread over a period of
up to five years; bulking is not feasible. Further-
more, there is adequate representation of foreign sup-
pliers locally to ensure competition. As at present,
OCS would satisfy itself about the need for the equip-
ment, the actual purchase and use, and its cost.
However, OCS would require the applicant to request
quotations from at least three suppliers if the value
of each item is over US$20,000.
(iii) For vocational/technical training:
Civil works and equipment supply contracts, except
for residual equipment, would be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans;
furniture would be locally procured and financed.
Local manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15 percent of the CIF costs of
competing imports or the existing rate of customs
duty, whichever is the lower. Bid comparisons would
be made in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on
the application of domestic preferences in bid evalua-
tion. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable
to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk pro-
curement.
Consultants:        For design and supervision of construction of vocational/
technical training facilities (about 10 man-years). The
firms of Tatzvit Architects Ltd. (Beersheva) and Pascual
Broid Architects (Jerusalem) have been selected.
Economic Rate
of Return:         N/A
Appraisal Report:   No. 656a-IS dated May 7, 1975



IDBI   -   FINANCIAL FORECASTS
(IL Millions)
Projected Total Camitments (July 1975-June 1977)      2,840
Financed by:
Internal cash generation                        40
Loan collections                               150
Withdrawal of long-term deposits                50
Existing loans                                  5
Identified new loans                         1, 600
Bank loan                                      150
Unidentified new loans                         800
2,8h0
ProJected Balance Sheets
Assets                   1714     1975     1976     1977     1978    1979
1-arrent assets           38       5o       66       81       97     109
loan portfolio
(neto4F provisions)   2,108    2,733   3,592    4,641    5,879   7,293
Other assets             608      456      363      292      243     209
Total assets            22754    3,239    !j,021           6221     7,611
Liabilities & Equity
current liabilities      187      180      190      205      224     240
long-term borrowings   2,074    2,553    3,307    4,259    5,k08   6,736
equity                   493      506      524      550      587     635
Total liabilities       2L754    3,239    4,021    5,014   6,219    7,611
Debt/Equity Ratio
as defined in Loan
Agreement                3.3      4.3      5.7      7.1      8.6    1o.0
Projected Earnings
Mtal Incmne               221      286      347      430      533     655
'total Ixpenses           131      182      227      290      369     462
Provision for taxes        42       51       60       73       86     105
Vtet Profit                48       53       6o       67       78      88
as percent of year-end
share capital           12.8     14.3     16.o     18.3     21.3    24.2
as percent of year-end
net worth                9.7     10.6     11.4     12.3     13.3    14.0



