Report No. 656a-IS                                                                 RETURN  To
Appraisal of an                                                                R REPORTS DzSK
Industrial Development Project    WITHIN
in Israel
May 7,WFILE COPY
Industrial Credits and Development Finance Companies Division                    F    L         C O PY
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Gcroup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorizatiors. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS              C  0.
JAN 12 1979
Prior to November 10, 1974
US $1.00       =          IL 4.20
IL  1          .          US$ o.24
After November 10, 1974
US $ 1.00      =          IL6.0o
IL 1=                     US $ 0.17
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
IDBI         Industrial Development Bank of Israel Ltd.
OCS          Office of the Chief Scientist
IFC          Industrial Finance Corporation Limited
Histadrut    Federation of Labor Unions
GTEI         General Telephone and Electronics International, Inc.
GOVERNMENT OF ISRAEL
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



APPRAISAL OF
AX 1`rtJSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN ISRAEL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pae No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................     i-v
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................         1
II. THE ENVIRONMENT.                                                 1
A. Economic Performance.                                        1
B. The Industrial Sector.                                      3
C. Financial Setting                   .5
III.   APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL
(IDBI).                                                        7
A. IDBI's Structure.                                           7
Ownership and Control.                                    7
Management and Staff.                                     7
Policies and Procedures.                                  8
B. IDRI's Operations.                                          9
Summary of Operations ........................            9
IDBI's Role and Development Impact.                       9
Progress in Meeting the Objectives of the
Third Bank Loan .10
C. IDBI's Financial Situation .10
Resource Position .10
Resource Mobilization Effort .11
Quality of Portfolio .11
Financial Performance and Position .11
D. IDBI's Prospects .12
The Environment .12
Forecast of Operations and Resources .13
Projected Financial Situation .13
The present report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Israel
in October-November 1974, composed of Messrs. George C. Maniatis, James L.
Theodores, Henry B. Thomas, H.K. Work (R&D consultant) and J.C. Jones (con-
sultant on technical training). Mr. Charles Weiss collaborated in the ap-
praisal and selection of the R&D subprojects.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                                  Page No.
IV.  APPRAISAL OF THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT ......    14
A.   The Role of R&D in Israel's Development ...........       ..    14
B.   The Proposed R&D Project ..............      ..............    16
Objectives ..........................................    16
Selection of R&D Subprojects ..........* ..............    17
Nature of R&D Project Appraisal ......................          17
Major Features of R&D Subprojects ...............      ....    19
The Risk Element ..      ................   ........ I....... .    22
Cost Estimates and Financing ...............      ...... #..    23
Disbursement and Procurement .......   ...............    25
C.   Project Implementation .....         .........................    26
The Project Unit ....................................    26
Development of OCS's Organization and Appraisal/
Supervision Capability ...........         ...................    27
V.   APPRAISAL OF VOCATIONAL/TECHNICAL TRAINING COMPONENT .....    29
A.   Educational System and Development Strategy in
Israel ........       .....................................    29
B.   The Proposed Vocational/Technical Training
Component           .       .    ......... I ............    30
General           ........................................      30
Vocational Training Centers ........         ...............    31
Technician Training Institutions ...................      .    31
Cost of Vocational/Technical Training Component   .....   32
C.   Implementation and Disbursement         ......................    33
Project Administration ......        ........................    33
Procurement                    ..........    33
Disbursement            ........................................    34
Design and Implementation ..................      ..            34
VI.  THE PROPOSED LOAN - OBJECTIVES AND JUSTIFICATION .........    34
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS ............................... .. . ........ .......    36
A.   IDBI Component         .....   .             ...............    36
B.   R&D Component ...................................                .....    37
C.   Vocational/Technical Training Component .......... ....    38



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex
1.       ISRAEL:  Summary of Investment and Export Incentives to Industry
2.       ISRAEL:  Interest Management and Its Implications
3.       IDBI:  Shareholders as of October 31, 1974
4.       IDBI:  Board of Directors and Committees as of October 31, 1974
5.       IDBI:  Organization and Staff Chart as of March 1, 1975
6.       IDBI:  Subsidiaries
7.       IDBI:  Computer System
8.       IDBI:  Loan Operations
Table 1: Summary of Loan Operations 1968-1974
Table 2: Summary of Loans Outstanding by Industrial
Sector 1972-1974
Table 3: Analysis of Loans Approved 1958-1974
9.       ISRAEL:  Sources of Finance for Industrial Fixed Investment
10.       IDBI:  Resources Position as of September 30, 1974
11.       IDBI:  Loans Portfolio Analysis as of June 30, 1974
Appendix: Note on Arrears
12.       IDBI:  Income Statements 1970-1974
13.       IDBI:  Balance Sheets 1970-1974
14.       IDBI:  Analysis of Spread 1970-1974
15.       IDBI:  Projections of Loan Operations 1974-1979
16.       IDBI:  Projected Cash Flow Statements 1974-1979
17.       IDBI:  Projected Statements of Income 1974-1979
18.       IDBI:  Projected Balance Sheets 1974-1979
19.       IDBI:  Projected Disbursement Schedule
20.       ISRAEL:  Organization of R&D Activity
Appendix: Organization Chart of Research and Development
in Israel
21.       Multipurpose Facility for Industrial R&D in Negev
Appendix 1:  Organization Chart
Appendix 2:  Key Scientific Personnel of Research and
Development Authority as of January 31, 1975
Appendix 3:  Budget April 1, 1974-March 31, 1975
Appendix 4:  Analysis of Expenses for Year Ended March 31, 1974
22.       Solar Ponds
Appendix 1:  Scientific Research Foundation - Organization
Chart
Appendix 2:  Scientific Research Foundation - Balance Sheets
1973-74
Appendix 3: Scientific Research Foundation - Budget -
April 1, 1975-March 31, 1976
23.       Liquid Wax Production from Jojoba Beans



Annex
24.       Rural Telephone System
Appendix 1: Financial and Economic Calculations
Appendix 2: Tadiran's Projected Market Share
Appendix 3: Summary Balance Sheets 1972-1977
Appendix 4: Summary Profit and Loss Statements 1972-1977
25.       Prime Movers (Engines) for On-Site Power Generation
Appendix 1: Financial and Economic Calculations
Appendix 2: Summary Balance Sheets 1972-78
Appendix 3: Summary Profit and Loss Statements 1972-78
26.       Transverse Section Tomographic Scanner
Appendix 1: Financial and Ecomomic Calculations
Appendix 2: Surmary Consolidated Balance Sheets 1972-1976
Appendix 3: Summary Consolidated Profit and Loss Statements
1972-76
27.       Projections of R&D Expenditures
28.       Functions of the Office of Chief Scientist
Appendix 1: Industrial Research Administration - Board of
Directors as of October 31, 1974
Appendix 2: Office of Chief Scientist - Research Committee
as of October 31, 1974
29.       Office of Chief Scientist:  Organization Chart as of October 31, 1974
30.       R&D Component:  Schedule of Estimated Quarterly Disbursements
31.       ISRAEL:  Education and Training System
32.       ISRAEL:  Ministry of Labor - Structure of Vocational Training
Department, 1974
33.       ISRAEL:  Population by Age Group and Enrollment by Educational
Level, 1973
34.       ISRAEL:  National Expenditure on Education FY1963-72
35.       ISRAEL:  National Expenditure on Education by Agency and Type of
Expenditure FY1972
36.       ISRAEL:  Projection of Employment by Sectors 1970-1985
37.       ISRAEL:  Estimated Requirements of Middle and High Level
Technicians 1970-1985
38.       ISRAEL:  Estimated Output of Project Institutions in 1980
39.       Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
40.       Contingency Allowances
41.       Estimated Recurrent Expenditure for the Project Institutions
42.       Vocational/Technical Component:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
43.       Implementation Schedule
Map of Israel IBRD No. 11483



- a -
BASIC DATA
A. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Year of Establishment: 1957
Ownership (as of October 31, 1974)                 IL (OO)            Percent
Ordinary A (voting) Shares
Government                                3,925                26.0
Private domestic                          9,775                614.7
Foreign                                  1 400oo                9.3
Sub-total           15,100               100.0
Non-Voting Shares
Government                             189,718                 52.7
Private domestic                         2,106                  o.6
Foreign                                  79,839                22.2
Mixed 1/                                 88 279                24.5
Sub-total          359,939               100.0
Total          375,039
Resources Position (as of September 30, 1973)           (IL million)
Domestic Currency
Equity                                           5D3 9
Perpetual deposit                                467.0
Long-tenn debt                                   323.0  1,293.9
Foreign Currency
IBUD loans ($38.8 million)                       162.5
Capital notes                                    71 .4
Other long-term debts                            832.5  1,066.h
Total resources                               2,360.3
Loans outstanding                              2,009.2
Equity investments outstanding                     .5
Sub sidiaries                                    1.5.1  2,028.8
Resources available for disbursement            331.5
1/  Entities owrned jointly by dorrestic and foreign shareholders.



-b -
Jan. - Sept.
1971      1972      1973      197h 
…( ---  IL Million7s)-------
Loan Comnitments                         267.8     366.1     101.9     WIJ3.9
Loan Disbursements                       331.2      31.0     401 .3    310.0
Earnings Record                         - - - - - - (percentages) - - - - - - -
1/
Profits before tax to
average total assets              A.8         .2       3.9       h.0
Profits before tax to
average equity                   1l1.5      15.7      17.0      18.6
Net profit to year-end
share capital                     8.2       9.0        9.7      10.5
Net profit to adjusted
year-end share capital 2/        13.1    114.8        16.1      n.a.
Gross dividends paid to
year-end share capital             7.1      8.o        8.0      n.a.
Financial Position (as of June 30, 1974)
Total debt/equity ratio (agreed maximum 3:1)                        3:1
Reserves and provisions to loan and investment portfolio            7.0%
Interest Rates and Charges (as of September 30, 197h)
Interest rates on loans           Variable, ranging from 8 to 15% p.a.
Commitment fee                     None
Commission charge                  0.6 to 1% on amount of each loan
Guarantee fee                      2% p.a.
B. BANK LOANS TO IIBI
Status as of March 31, 1975 (US$ Million)
Loan      Date      Rate of       Net
No.    Signed      Exchange    Amount       Committed      Disbursed      Outstanding
124     9/16/65       5½          20.0          fully           20.0          5.9
519    11/15/67       var.        15.0          fully          i5.0           6.1
689     6/15/70       7            25.0         fully           22.4         21.0
1/  On annual basis
2/ Excludes Government-owned Ordinary B and Preference A shares and
dividends thereon.



APPRAISAL OF
AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN ISRAEL
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a composite industrial development project
involving three complementary components: (a) a (fourth) loan for the
Industrial Development Bank of Israel (IDBI); (b) industrial research and
development (R&D); and (c) vocational/technical training. The Bank loan,
in the amount of US$35 million, will be made to the Government for 15 years.
The Government will on-lend US$25 million to IDBI, while the R&D and
vocational/technical training components will each be funded with US$5 million.
The IDBI Component
ii.       Since its establishment in 1957, IDBI has shown continuous growth
and, at September 30, 1974, its total assets stood at IL 2.4 billion. IDBI
has an experienced management team and a competent staff, is efficiently run
and has a notable record of performance in terms of both financial assistance
to industry and overall development impact. IDBI continues to be the largest
development finance institution engaged in term lending in Israel and an im-
portant instrument for the implementation of the Government's industrial
policy. IDBI stresses the promotion of technologically sophisticated and
export-oriented industries, and the location of industry in less developed
regions. During 1969-73, IDBI contributed 30% of the total financing for
industrial investment. Approximately 50% of IDBI-financed projects are
located in the less developed areas, while 40% by amount of loans approved
by IDBI during 1969-74 were allocated to science-based industries.  IDBI
has continued to succeed in raising new capital abroad. At home, however,
untoward Government policies have limited considerably the scope of IDBI's
resource mobilization effort.
iii.      IDBI's loan approvals have increased in terms of amounts during
1968-74 at 30% per annum. IDBI's portfolio is diversified and sound. Ar-
rears are well within acceptable limits and provisions for losses adequate.
Earnings have shown steady growth and have represented a return in recent
years of 15% to 16% on non-Government held share capital. IDBI's satisfac-
tory appraisal/supervision work and continuing good record of operations
warrants the raising of its debt/equity ratio from the present level of 3:1
to 5:1. Similarly, the free limit under the proposed loan should be raised
from US$750,000 to US$1 million.
iv.       IDBI's business prospects appear good.  The Government will conti-
nue to lay heavy stress on industry to improve export earnings, to generate
employment opportunities, and to develop the more backward regions. It can
therefore be reasonably expected that a relatively high level of industrial
investment will be maintained in the next several years, despite the enun-
ciated austerity program. IDBI forecasts commitments of IL 8.4 billion
during 1975-79 and of IL 2.8 billion over the two-year period July 1975-June
1977, based on realistic growth rates of industrial investment and the size
of its pipeline. About half of the projected commitments of IL 2.8 billion



- ii -
will be in local currency and will be covered by internally generated funds,
debentures, and loans or other transfers from the Government, with the latter
covering any shortfall. Of the remaining IL 1.4 billion, or some US$240 mil-
lion, about half will be covered from existing lines of credit or new loans
already identified and at various stages of negotiation. The rest will be
covered by as yet unidentified sources. The proposed Bank funding of US$25
million, to be repaid over 15 years including a grace period of about 2 years,
would help to fill part of that gap (or about 10% of the total foreign ex-
change gap). Perforce IDBI will have to continue, and to further intensify,
its resource mobilization effort abroad.
v.        Bank funds will support projects in the less developed regions of
the country as well as export-oriented projects regardless of their location,
in consonance with the Government's development objectives. Furthermore, a
good part of these projects would be in industries employing sophisticated
technologies, which the Government is eager to promote. IDBI will on-lend
at 10-11%, on average.
The R&D Component
vi.       R&D is a key element in Israel's strategy of promoting export-
oriented industries based on sophisticated product design and production tech-
niques. This strategy requires a high-level research capability closely in-
tegrated with sophisticated marketing and commercial skills at the enterprise
level. It is based on the conviction in Israel that continuing reliance on
foreign investment and licensing to acquire technology and know-how does not
generally provide a sufficient competitive edge in export markets, and is in-
tended to take advantage of one of Israel's major resources: its wealth of
technical talent.
vii.      Israel has traditionally carried out mainly basic research in uni-
versities and Government laboratories. In an effort to re-orient research
toward commercial application, the Government in 1966 initiated a 50-50
matching grant program to encourage R&D in the private sector.  To give a
further impetus, the Government now proposes to support industrial research
more generously through grants to industry and research institutes for up to
80% of the cost of selected projects of "national importance", i.e. projects
with significant potential payoff, but which private enterprises for the most
part are presently unable to undertake because they are relatively new and
small by international standards, the required R&D outlays are substantial
in relation to their available resources, the risk on new and sophisticated
products is high and cannot be spread over many research projects (as they
would in a larger firm), and the supply of private risk capital is far short
of expansion targets. The program is well-conceived.
viii.     In view of Israel's limited capabilities in evaluating the commer-
cial and technical risks involved in developing new products and in launching
them in international markets, the Government proposes: (a) to launch a first
set of projects of national importance on the basis of the best evaluation
possible with present staff; and (b) to build up its own internal capability
to review proposals presented to it by private firms. The Office of the



- iii -
Chief Scientist in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (OCS), now handling
inter alia the matching grant program, will be the entity responsible for
carrying out the Government's objectives. It will also serve as the project
unit for the R&D component.
ix.       The proposed R&D project is intended to assist the Government (spe-
cifically the Office of the Chief Scientist) to improve its capability to
evaluate proposals for commercially oriented R&D. This will involve the
development within the Government, not only of the purely technological ap-
praisal capability typical of a scientific research granting agency, but
also of technical, financial and commercial expertise sufficient to allow
it to promote and competently review proposals for R&D on a commercial time-
table leading to commercial prototypes and to specifications and selling
prices dictated by a market. As a vehicle for the development of OCS's
capabilities, the proposed project will support: (a) three subprojects
aimed at developing commercial prototypes, which appear promising on the
basis of preliminary evaluation (rural telephone systems, prime movers, and
tomographic scanner); (b) two projects involving applied research at the
early stages (solar ponds and jojoba liquid wax); and (c) a multi-disciplinary
regional technological institution (the Negev R&D Authority) which will ex-
pand facilities of an infrastructure nature. In consultation with the Bank, a
sum up to US$150,000 may be allocated to OCS from Bank funds to enable it to
obtain expertise and services abroad, if needed. The Bank's direct and inti-
mate involvement in the review of R&D subprojects provides a better opportun-
ity to influence and accelerate the development of the OCS's appraisal/
supervision capabilities, than if it were merely to provide technical assist-
ance, particularly through the discipline that a financial intervention is
likely to impose.
x.        In selecting these subprojects, the following criteria were employ-
ed, as appropriate: non-defense orientation; technological feasibility;
possibility of market success; overall capability of the undertaking entity;
possible technological spin-offs; benefits to Israel's economy; usefulness of
the prospective technology to other developing countries; inability of the
sponsoring private firms to borrow for R&D or to self-finance; experience
and capability to commercialize technology, and financial strength of the
private firms. All R&D projects carry a measure of risk, but the risks in
the proposed subprojects are reasonable. On the other hand, if the sub-
projects are successful, the potential financial results and technological
spin-offs can be substantial in relation to the R&D investment.
xi.       The proposed R&D subprojects were initially appraised as follows:
the technological and marketing aspects of each proposal were reviewed with
the assistance of specialized expertise drawn from inside and outside the
Bank. The appraisal mission visited and evaluated the laboratory facilities,
interviewed the technical staff and management of the sponsor, and evaluated
the sponsor's commercial strategy and financial status. The financial and
economic rates of return of each subproject, except for those whose potential
benefits are not amenable to quantification, were estimated in order to de-
monstrate that, if commercially successful, each of the subprojects promises
a reasonable rate of return. The rates of return obtained are necessarily



- iv -
based on rough estimates of sales revenues and costs, including R&D expendi-
tures, for the products to be developed. They will need to be recalculated
periodically as development progresses. Financial rates of return (after
taxes) range from 30% to 43%; economic rates of return from 13% to 41%. They
are high or acceptable.
xli.      Progress against the proposed timetables, technological and market
developments related to the ultimate success of the product, the market studies
presented by the sponsors as the projects advance, as well as all aspects of
the normal supervision procedure, will be followed closely by the Office of
the Chief Scientist and by the Bank. The progress made by the Office of the
Chief Scientist toward the development of a capability to appraise risk
capital propositions will also be regularly reviewed. The Bank will thus be
a participant in an institution building process, gaining new insights from
this experience which may be turned to good use in other developing countries.
In addition, this scrutiny would permit an early decision to terminate the
financing of a sub-project whose probability of success is low.
xiii.     The total cost of the R&D component is estimated at US$22.3 million,
of which US$8.4 million (38%) would be in foreign exchange. The Bank funds
would cover US$5 million, or about 60% of the foreign exchange costs. The
grant element for all subprojects amounts to US$14 million, or 63% of the
total cost of the R&D component. The Government expects to recoup part of
the grants from the profits of successful subprojects.
xiv.      The Bank will not finance the civil engineering works, which amount
to only US$1.4 million and involve several subprojects in different locations.
R&D equipment is to a considerable extent specialized and proprietary. The
individual items are of relatively small value and procurement is spread over
a period of up to five years; bulking is not feasible. Furthermore, there is
adequate representation of foreign suppliers locally to ensure competition.
As at present, the Office of the Chief Scientist would satisfy itself about
the need for the equipment, the actual purchase and use, and its cost. How-
ever, the Office will require applicants to request quotations for equipment
from at least three suppliers if the value of each item is over US$20,000.
xv.       The R&D component is suitable for Bank funding of US$5 million,
to be repaid over 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The
industrial R&D component will enhance the developmental impact of the over-
all loan and Bank funding should have considerable institution building
effects.
The Vocational/Technical Training Component
xvi.      Israel's industrial effort is increasingly hampered by a shortage
of skilled workers and middle and high-level technicians. The Government is
attempting to alleviate the situation through a comprehensive program of tech-
nical training designed to meet the projected needs of the expanding industrial
sector. The Government's program and priorities are soundly conceived. The



program involves expansion of vocational and of post-secondary technical edu-
cation, including retraining and refresher programs, on-the-job training,
apprenticeship programs, youth centers, and rehabilitation programs.
xvii.     The proposed component would provide for the expansion of training
facilities and programs sufficient to meet about 35% and 30%, respectively,
of the projected shortage of skilled workers and technicians for 1985. To
improve the quality and efficiency of existing training programs, the compo-
nent would also provide the additional equipment needed to meet new program
requirements and/or to replace obsolete equipment which heretofore has limited
the type and level of training opportunities available to youths and adults.
The project would be directed specifically toward meeting the existing and
projected manpower constraints, particularly in the industrial sector. Fur-
thermore, the project would help reduce economic and social disparities by
providing increased training opportunities for early leavers from the formal
education system as well as for adult workers requiring retraining to enable
them to be productively employed in a changing labor market.
xviii.    A project unit would be established as part of the existing struc-
ture for project implementation within the Ministry of Labor. The unit would
supervise the implementation of the proposed component, coordinate activities
within the Government and with private bodies and provide liaison with the
Bank. In addition, the establishment of a project implementation unit would
provide a new and viable link to external sources, including the Bank, for
the exchange of planning, costing, evaluation and implementation procedures
and methods different from many currently in use by the Ministry of Labor.
xix.      The component comprises:  (a) construction and/or extension and
equipment of three vocational training centers and one technician/practical
engineering institute; and (b) provision of equipment for one vocational
training center and two technician/practical engineering institutes. The
construction of project items would be based on standardized schedules of
accommodations already established. All contracts for civil works and equip-
ment would be awarded on the basis of the Bank's guidelines for international
competitive bidding.
xx.       The total cost of the vocational/technical training component is
estimated at US$15.8 million and the foreign exchange component at US$5.2
million. The project is suitable as a basis for Bank funding of US$5.0 mil-
lion, to be repaid over 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The
proposed funds would finance 96% of the foreign exchange costs and be equiva-
lent to about 32% of the estimated project cost.



I



APPRAISAL OF
AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
ISRAEL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a composite industrial development project,
involving: (a) a (fourth) loan to finance the Industrial Development Bank of
Israel (IDBI); (b) industrial research and development (R&D), with the Office
of the Chief Scientist in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry as the proj-
ect unit; and (c) vocational/technical training, with a project unit to be
set up in the Ministry of Labor. The Bank loan, in the amount of US$35 mil-
lion, will be made to the Government of Israel, which in turn will on-lend
US$25 million to IDBI. The R&D and technical training components will each
be funded with US$5 million. The proposed multi-purpose project is expected
to contribute to the implementation of the Government's industrial development
policies.                                    !
1.02      IDBI was established in 1957 and has received three Bank loans
totalling US$60 million. IDBI is an efficient development financing institu-
tion with a solid record of performance in terms of both financial support to
industry and overall development impact. This report first appraises IDBI
for the new funding and focuses on IDBI's overall performance since the last
Bank loan was made in June 1970. The R&D and technical training components
of the Bank loan are appraised in turn. A detailed review of the Israel's
economy can be found in "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Israel,"
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The pre-
sent report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Israel in
October-November 1974, composed of Messrs. George C. Maniatis, James L.
Theodores, Henry B. Thomas, H.K. Work (R&D consultant) and J.C. Jones (con-
sultant on technical training). Mr. Charles Weiss collaborated in the
appraisal and selection of the R&D subprojects. The opinion of specialists
in R&D was also solicited.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Economic Performance
2.01      Remarkable growth in national and industrial output, full employ-
ment, high level utilization of productive capacity, and considerable improve-
ment in the balance of payments, were the dominant features of the Israeli
economy between the 1967 and 1973 wars. GNP increased at 10% per annum in
real terms during 1968-72. Total fixed capital formation increased at 17%
per annum in constant prices, raising the investment rate from 20% of GNP in



-2-
1968 to 29% in 1972. During the same period, fixed investment in the indus-
trial sector increased at 17% a year in real terms (11% on average in 1970-72).
Despite manpower shortages, industrial output increased at 13% a year. In-
dustrial exports (excluding diamonds) increased at 16.5% per annum, stimulated
by fiscal and financial incentives. Reversing the past trend, the balance of
payments showed a surplus of US$585 million in 1972 compared with a deficit
of US$94 million in 1968.
2.02      The October 1973 war caused major economic dislocations and a sud-
den contraction of the economy. However, by the end of 1973, civilian employ-
ment and production were about 20% below prewar levels. Real GNP increased
by 7.5% in 1973. Total fixed capital formation increased by 7% but indus-
trial investment declined by 8%, adversely affected by manpower shortages,
transportation bottlenecks and the uncertainty about the economic outlook.
Industrial output rose by approximately 6% while exports (excluding diamonds,
which account for about one-half of industrial exports) by 21%, reaching
US$637 million.  Due to the greatly increased defense imports during and fol-
lowing the October war, the overall deficit on goods and services account
more than doubled in 1973, reaching US$2.6 billion.  However, in response to
the emergency, unilateral transfers and capital inflows increased substan-
tially, and the balance of payments showed a surplus of about US$600 million.
In 1973, wages rose by 23% (compared with 16% in 1972), partly as a result
of cost of living increases and partly as a result of competition for labor
in a tight labor market. Despite the Government's restrictive monetary and
fiscal policies and price controls, the price level rose by 20%. Rising
import prices, stepped-up defense expenditures, and wage increases far ex-
ceeding productivity rises, were major causes of inflationary pressures.
2.03      Real GNP increased by an estimated 6-7% in 1974, due to the Gov-
ernment's anti-inflationary measures and the decline of total gross invest-
ment by 1% over 1973. Industrial investment, however, picked up considerably
from the 1973 low level and rose by about 14% in real terms (to some IL 2,150
million in current prices). Industrial production continued to recover during
1974, rising at about 12% over 1973.  Earlier in the year, wages were in-
creased by sizable cost of living adjustments. As a result of the substan-
tial rise of defense imports, the deficit on goods and services increased
further in 1974 and reached US$3.4 billion; the overall balance of payments
showed a deficit of about US$500 million.
2.04      In July 1974, the Government took further policy measures to sta-
bilize the economy and to strengthen the external account. Fiscal and mone-
tary measures included increases in direct taxes, a freeze on social public
expenditures, restrictions on public sector construction, increased interest
rates on development loans, and a freeze on the prices of basic consumer
goods. To improve the external account, the surcharge on imports (excluding
basic foodstuffs and fuel) was increased from 25% to 35%, while export rebates
were further raised. These measures did not produce the expected results and,
on November 10, 1974, the Israeli Government launched a severe austerity pro-
gram in an effort to improve the country's rapidly deteriorating balance of
payments situation, bolster its declining foreign exchange reserves, and curb



-3-
the mounting inflationary pressures. The Israeli pound was devalued from 4.2
to 6 to the U.S. dollar, imports of luxury consumer durables were banned for
six months, a 15% import surcharge was imposed on all other imports (replac-
ing the previous 35% rate), and new taxes were levied on overseas travel,
financial institutions and capital gains. The Government is pressing the
Histadrut (Federation of Labor Unions) to agree to a freeze in basic wages,
while it has promised assistance to low-income groups to alleviate the
adverse effects of devaluation. The measures are expected to ensure an unin-
terrupted inflow of industrial raw materials and capital goods and, thus,
to maintain high levels of employment and industrial investment, output and
exports. Price increases in 1974 reached an annual average of 40%, reflect-
ing the cumulative effects of the devaluation, world inflation and the state
of emergency. The Government appears determined (and prepared) to take the
requisite measures to slow down inflation rates. The prospects of the Israeli
economy are discussed in paras 3.24-3.25.
B. The Industrial Sector
2.05      Industrial Objectives and Policy.  In sharp contrast with Israel's
relatively poor natural resource endowment, the labor force is well-educated,
highly motivated and efficient. In these circumstances, industrial develop-
ment based on strong technical ability, R&D, and export-oriented industries
is the main way Israel can maintain a high rate of growth, strengthen its
balance of payments, and ensure full employment of its labor force, including
the absorption of new immigrants. The Government, as reflected in the 1972-
76 Economic and the 1974-78 Industrial Plans, has endorsed this approach to
industrial development and is eager to promote the growth of sophisticated
science-based industries, such as electrical and electronics goods, scien-
tific instruments, chemicals, plastics, and engineering. The promotion of an
indigenous industrial technology, a parallel Government objective (see paras
4.01, 4.03), is facilitated by the existence of a sizable pool of highly
qualified scientists and a developing entrepreneurial class increasingly
responsive to both incentives and realities.
2.06      Although efficient import substitution, especially in selected
capital goods, is encouraged, the main thrust of the Government's industrial
policy is to expand exports. Export-oriented growth is dictated inter alia
by the limited size of Israel's domestic market. The reorientation of the
country's industrial effort is entrusted to private initiative and supported
by incentives (para 2.10). In addition, the Government is concerned with the
comparatively small plant size, fragmented production and family ownership of
the Israeli industry, which prevents it from reaping scale economies. Thus,
a related objective of the Government's industrial policy is to change the
prevailing structure of industry by encouraging mergers of plants and firms,
particularly in industries producing consumer durables and catering to the
local market. The role of small-scale industry would be limited to filling
the interstices. A side-effect of this latter approach is that it would
economize on scarce resources such as entrepreneurship, managerial and market-
ing skills, and highly-skilled labor. Greater exposure to foreign competition,



- 4 -
through gradual liberalization of imports (already under implementation), is
expected to counter the attendant adverse effects of the greater concentration
of industrial power.
2.07      Technical Training.  The country's industrial effort is increasing-
ly constrained by a shortage of skilled workers and middle and high-level
technicians. The Government is attempting to alleviate the situation through
a comprehensive program of technical training designed to increase labor
mobility and to meet the projected needs of the expanding industrial sector.
The program involves basically expansion of vocational and of post-secondary
technical education, including retraining and refresher programs, on-the-job-
training, apprenticeship programs, youth centers, and rehabilitation programs.
2.08      Research and Development.  Industrial and university expenditures
on R&D in Israel currently amount to some 1.4% of GNP; however, only 22% is
applied research carried out by industry. In an effort to re-orient research
toward commercial application, the Government has since 1966 been encouraging
R&D in the private sector through a program of 50-50 matching grants to firms
demonstrating initiative and ingenuity, but lacking the necessary risk capital.
During fiscal years 1971-73, Government matching grants totalled US$10.4 mil-
lion. Over half went to the electronics industry, about 25% to chemicals and
pharmaceuticals, and the remaining 25% spread among metal-working, food-
processing, and other industries. The major part of the Government funds did
not exceed US$50,000 per research project, which reflects the rather small
scale of the program. Further support to industry for R&D is provided
through the funding of science-based industrial parks, access to Government
laboratories, low interest rates for construction of facilities and through
the sharing of the expense of technology forecasting and information centers.
2.09      To further accelerate the pace of development and commercialization
of industrial technology, the Government now proposes to support industrial
research more generously through grants to industry and to research institutes
for up to 80% of the cost of selected projects of "national importance," i.e.,
projects with significant potential payoff but which private enterprises are
presently unable to undertake because they are relatively new and small by
international standards, the required R&D outlays are substantial in relation
to their available resources, the risk on new and sophisticated products is
high and cannot be spread over many research projects (as they would in a
larger firm), and the supply of private venture capital is far short of ex-
pansion targets. 1/ The Government's support of R&D projects is also prompted
1/   To a very limited extent, risk capital for research oriented and risky
ventures in Israel is provided by two entities: (a) the Discount Bank
Investment Corporation which, as of December 31, 1974, had outstanding
equity participations (book value) amounting to about IL 6 million and
loans to IL 400,000; and (b) the Israel Research and Development Corpo-
ration Limited (85% of its shares being owned by the Government and 15%
by IDBI) with outstanding equity participations of about IL 3 million.



by its concern to generate employment opportunities for a science-trained
manpower which is becoming available locally, and through immigration, in
increasing numbers. Given the scale and speed intended, it is very doubtful
that the proposed program would make headway without Government financial
assistance. The program supports these objectives which are reasonable.
2.10      Investment and Export Incentives.  Israel operates a complex scheme
of development grants, tax exemptions, low interest loans and export incen-
tives designed to encourage domestic and foreign investment, to develop less
advanced areas and to promote industrial exports. To qualify, investors must
meet certain conditions which vary according to the development area and
nature of investment projects (see Annex 1). Special benefits are granted to
promote investment in science-based industries, including government guaran-
tees for term loans. Development loans at concessionary terms and government
grants accounted for 51% and 7%, respectively, of the total sources of finance
of fixed investment in the industrial sector in 1968-1973 (see Annex 9). Al-
though the full range of incentives may not have been necessary in every case
to achieve the Government's objectives, on the whole it does not appear that
the incentives system, as applied, has been either wasteful or superfluous.
Furthermore, incentives have not resulted in misallocation of resources, since
the viability of the industrial projects promoted is assessed by sound econo-
mic analysis (calculation of the cost to the economy of the foreign exchange
saved or earned). Industry's impressive growth and performance in the past
two decades attests to the beneficial influence of the incentives scheme. The
cost to the Government of the various forms of incentives is estimated at
approximately 20% of total industrial investment. The Government proposes to
amend the existing incentives in July 1975 to increase their effectiveness and
to reduce the costs of administering the system. The Bank has commissioned
a study to assess the effectiveness of incentives in several countries, in-
cluding Israel, in stimulating economic growth and exports, their impact on
resource allocation, fiscal implications, etc. The part on Israel, to be
prepared by an economist of the Bank of Israel, has not yet been completed
and this report could not benefit from the study.
C. Financial Setting
2.11      The Capital Market.  Since the mid-1960's, equity capital has been
a relatively unimportant means of raising funds, in part due to the steady
decline of stock prices and in part because of the more favorable terms of
loanable funds enterprises can obtain from Investment Banks under the in-
vestment incentives scheme. During 1968-73, industrial enterprises raised
only IL 47.5 million in the form of share capital. Also, because of the
Government's pre-emptive policies and controls on the new issues market,
coupled with the need for indexing new issues, it has been very difficult for
industrial enterprises to float bond issues. During 1968-73, industrial bond
issues amounted to a meager IL 30 million. Institutional investors, the
major source of funds for the capital market, must invest 85-90% of their
funds in Government bonds or Government approved securities. In addition,
the Government mops up considerable amounts of funds in the form of compulsory



- 6 -
loans and contributions. In this set-up, the program of Government invest-
ment incentives has become a major source of long-term financing for industry,
while it enables the Government to exercise wide influence over the alloca-
tion of funds of the financial institutions engaging in term financing and
the public: sector companies. Since the amount and terms of most Government
borrowing are discretionary and a substantial part of the market is captive,
interest rates are not determined in competition with other borrowers and do
not, therefore, necessarily reflect the prevailing market conditions. Gover-
nment bond issues, with principal and interest linked to the cost of living,
vary from 4% to 6.5%. The total stock of linked government bonds held by the
public directly or through mutual funds exceeded IL 8 billion in mid-1974.
2.12      Interest Rates.  There is virtually no free market for term lending.
Medium- and long-term financing is made available to industry at official
interest rates through the major Investment Banks under Government supervi-
sion. On July 2, 1974, the Government increased the interest rates on term
loans as follows: Area "All (greatest development priority) from 6.5% to 8%;
Area "B" (less development priority) from 8% to 10%; and Area "C" (already
developed regions) from 9% to 12% (and to 15% for loans to "marginal" indus-
tries). Furthermore, with regard to development loans to Area "C" approved
after November 6, 1974, the Government is in the process of implementing its
decision that, if the cost of living in a particular year rises more than
20%, the excess will be added to the outstanding principal. The additional
principal will bear the same interest rate as the original loan and will be
repaid after the repayment of the initial principal of the loan. Interest
rate management and its implications are discussed in Annex 2.
2.13      Since 1963, the risk on foreign exchange borrowing has essentially
been borne by the Government. In principle, a recommendation that the Govern-
ment passes the risk on to the ultimate users of foreign funds would be legi-
timate. However, the current difficult balance of payments situation and the
attendant uncertainty as to the implications of such an important change, is
likely to render the business community extremely cautious and to adversely
affect investment activity. This at a time when the Government's major objec-
tive is to maintain high levels of industrial investment in order to promote
growth and exports, to generate employment opportunities for a large number
of immigrants, and to prevent emigration.  In light of this, a change in the
status quo involves a high element of risk and continuation of the present
Government policy appears to be in the best interest of the country. See
also Annex 2.
2.14      Interest rates on short-term credits from commercial banks are
presently at 20-1/2% per annum or higher, depending on the borrower's stand-
ing. Ilowever, since 1970 the Government has introduced a system of "directed"
credits for working capital, granted at preferential rates to key sectors of
the economy, mainly exports, industry located in priority development areas
and agriculture. For exporters the maximum rate is currently 6%, while for
industry it was recently raised from 11% to 13%.  "Directed" credits account-
ed for 53% of the total short-term bank credit during 1970-74.



III. APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED (IDBI)
A. IDBI's Structure
Ownership and Control
3.01      Establishment and Ownership.  IDBI was established in 1957 on the
joint initiative of the Government, the three largest commercial banks in
Israel, the Histadrut and the Manufacturers' Association. The presently
authorized share capital of IL 647 million is divided into eleven classes,
two of which have not been issued. Of the outstanding share capital of IL
375 million, only Ordinary A shares amounting to IL 15 million carry full
voting rights. The Government is the largest shareholder, holding 26% of
the Ordinary A shares (see Annex 3).
3.02      Board of Directors and Committees.  Holders of IL 250,000 or more
of Ordinary A shares are entitled to appoint one director. This leads to a
theoretical Board size of 59 though only 50 were appointed on October 31,
1974 (see Annex 4). The Board represents a broad cross-section of financial
and business institutions in the country as well as foreign investors and
the Government. It meets three or four times a year to review actions taken
by the Executive Committee. The Board is responsible for the election of the
Chairman and Vice-Chairmen and the appointment of the General Manager(s).
To increase its effectiveness, most of the Board's powers have been delegated
to three Committees: The Executive Committee, the Loan Committee and the
Vice-Chairmen's Committee. These Committees are described in Annex 4.
Management and Staff
3.03      Dr. A. Neaman, IDBI's Managing Director since 1961, stepped down
on February 28, 1975, having reached normal retirement age. He will, however,
remain a member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee. His
responsibilities were divided between Messrs. D. Friedmann, IDBI's Deputy
General Manager, and Y. Gill, General Manager of IDBI's subsidiaries, who
were appointed jointly as General Managers. Both men are experienced and
competent. The new organizational structure of IDBI is depicted in the
Organization Chart attached as Annex 5.
3.04      The staff is competent and well motivated.  IDBI follows highly
selective recruitment policies and the overall quality of its staff has
further improved in recent years. During the past five years the professional
staff has been increased by 44 and now totals 89. Only the Follow-up Depart-
ment has suffered a net loss of one professional staff member over this period
and with a staff of only seven is stretched rather thin. Management is
aware that the follow-up staff needs strengthening and intends to recruit
additional staff. The situation appears to be under control.



- 8 -
3.05      Subsidiaries.  IDBI owns, equally with the Government, the Invest-
ment Company for Industrial Development in Israel Ltd., which in turn con-
trols several other companies. The operations of these companies are rela-
tively insignificant compared to those of IDBI's. The major subsidiary (IFC)
concentrates on equity investments and on assisting companies experiencing
financial and managerial difficulties. These companies are described in
Annex 6.
Policies and Procedures
3.06      Policies.  IDBI does not have a comprehensive statement of general
business policies. 1/ Its lending policy has evolved in the course of opera-
tions, guided by its Articles of Association and the Government's policies
for industrial development. Individual loan applications are judged on their
own merits with financial and economic viability being of critical importance
in project selection. Although relations with the Government are close, IDBI
maintains a high degree of independence in its day-to-day operations and deci-
sions. Its activities have been concentrated almost entirely in industrial
term lending.
3.07      Project Appraisal.  The quality of IDBI's project appraisals is
good. IDBI has made numerous sector studies in connection with its project
appraisals, in part with the assistance of consultants. IDBI pays attention
to the economic justification of projects, is mindful of the minimum economi-
cal size of the plants it finances, and calculates the cost to the economy of
the foreign exchange saved or earned in almost all projects. It has agreed
to calculate the economic rate of return for large projects and to perform
sensitivity tests for key variables. IDBI considers environmental aspects of
the projects in its appraisal reports as well as the steps taken to deal with
them.
3.08      Follow-Up.  Projects under construction are followed up by the
Assessment and Checking of Implementation Department, headed by the Chief
Engineer. Site inspections are normally made at least twice during construc-
tion, though more often for larger projects. Upon completion of construction,
the Follow-Up Department becomes responsible for the project. At present
there are some 1,400 clients under supervision. Some of these clients re-
quire relatively little attention while others are under appraisal for an
additional loan and, consequently, pose no burden on the limited staff of the
Follow-Up Department. Size of loan, financial difficulties, arrears, indus-
try problems, or detection of a problem by the computerized "early warning"
system (see Annex 7) are some of the criteria used to select those clients
to be visited. The Department undertakes some 120 plant visits a year,
preparing a report on each. There is close cooperation and feedback between
the Follow-Up and Appraisal Departments.
1/   IDBI's policy guidelines are contained in various internal documents,
such as Board Minutes and staff instructions. IDBI will compile and
present systematically all such directives in one document, which will
be made available to the Bank.



- 9 -
3.09      Procur>z - and Disbursement.  IDBI usually asks its cliencs for
quotations fri. -a than one supplier and satisfies itself that the quality
and prices are the best obtainable. It has developed expertise in many in-
dus trial fields and so is often able to make its own comparisons and to
advise clients. Disbursements are made only after careful checking of the
documents and, when appropriate, on-site inspections. Procurement and dis-
bursement practices are satisfactory.
B. IDBI's Operations
Summary of Operations
3.10      IDBI's loan operations are described in Annex 8.  IDBI does not
invest directly in equity investments, leaving this activity to one of its
subsidiaries (see Annex 6). IDBI's loan approvals have been increasing
during 1968-1974 at 30% per annum in terms of amounts but only at 7% in
terms of number of loans, reflecting the growing average size of its loans.
In 1973 loan approvals totalled IL 450 million. Commitments and disburse-
ments have kept pace with approvals, though disbursements in 1973 and the
first six months of 1974 were adversely affected by the October 1973 war.
These results are generally in line with IDBI's forecasts prepared in 1972.
3.11      Besides lending its own resources to projects it appraises, IDBI
also administers, with no risk, funds earmarked for particular, often pub-
lic sector, projects. In such cases its involvement is limited to handling
disbursement and follow-up work, for which it receives a fee of (usually)
3/4 of 1% p.a. of the amounts administered. Some 16% of outstanding loans
are in this "administered" category.
3.12      IDBI's loan portfolio is quite diversified and about half is cover-
ed by full or partial guarantees by the Government or others. The guaranteed
loans are usually to projects which are viable but cannot offer adequate
security or are financially marginal but economically attractive (in less
developed areas, with good export potential, creating employment, using
sophisticated technology, etc.). Included also are all loans administered
by IDBI.
IDBI's Role and Development Impact
3.13      IDBI continues to be the most important of the five financial in-
stitutions engaged in term lending in Israel and an important instrument for
the implementation of the Government's industrial policy. During 1969-73
IDBI contributed 30% of the total financing for industrial investment (see
Annex 9). IDBI-financed projects account for 60% of the investments in the
industrial sector, while IDBI disbursements account for 45% of the sources
of finance in the projects it sponsors. With projects becoming larger, IDBI
is getting increasingly involved in consortium financing. IDBI does not take
part in mergers or rationalization schemes, a function which it has delegated
to a subsidiary.



- 10 -
3.14      IDBI's lending operations are within the Government's industrial
policy framework. About 40% of the amount of loans approved by IDBI during
1969-74, and 60% of its pipeline as of September 30, 1974, were allocated to
science--based industries. Approximately 50% of IDBI-financed projects are
located in the less developed regions. Some 25-30% of the projects approved
by IDBI since 1970 are expected to export over 20% of their production. IDBI
estimates that 80 export-oriented projects it approved in 1973 will result
in about US$120 million worth of exports a year, representing 10% of the
industrial exports in 1973 (19% of exports of diamonds are excluded). Value
added to sales in IDBI-financed projects ranges from 40% to 80%, with the
higher frequency of occurrence being between 50% and 60%. The cost in local
currency of the foreign exchange earned or saved, estimated on the basis of
a representative sample of IDBI's projects, varies between IL 3 and IL 5 per
US dollar, which compares favorably with the effective exchange rate of IL
5.4 = US$1 prevailing before the devaluation on November 10, 1974.
Progress in Meeting the Objectives of the Third Bank Loan
3.15      The third Bank loan of US$25 million became effective on August 25,
1970, and was fully committed by June 30, 1973. The undisbursed amount as
of February 28, 1975 was US$3.1 million. The small delay in the utilization
of the loan is attributable to the need for IDBI to reappraise several large
projects following the devaluation of the Israeli pound in 1971; to the lack
of projects with a large enough import content; to the 90-day rule against
retroactive financing; and to IDBI's efforts to use existing lines of credits
tied to procurement whenever possible.
3.16      Aside from covering part of IDBI's foreign exchange need, a major
objective of the third Bank loan was to induce IDBI to continue the search
for new capital, particularly abroad. IDBI's resource mobilization effort
abroad has been successful, as described in para 3.18. An institution build-
ing aim of the third Bank loan was that IDBI would address itself with parti-
cular care to the economic justification of projects during their appraisal
and that the reports submitted to the Bank would reflect the economic analysis
made. IDBI has accepted and acted on the Bank's advice in this respect.
C.  IDBI's Financial Situation
Resource Position
3.17      IDBI's resource position on September 30, 1974, indicated a tech-
nical over-commitment of IL 16.3 million (see Annex 10). However, several
foreign lines of credit that were under negotiation at the time but not
signed are not included as resources; these exceed the over-commitment.
Also not reflected is the Government's intention to provide IL 400 million
during the three fiscal years 1975-1978; these may be provided as additional
perpetual deposits though the terms are still being discussed. These per-
petual deposits are convertible into Ordinary B shares at par at the Gov-
ernment's request.  They are not repayable unless the Government's voting
power falls below 20%, in which case the Government has the right to demand
repayment over 25 years after ten years' grace.



Resource Mo'bilization Effort
3.18      From July 1, 1970 to June 30, 1974, IDBI had raised in the form of
foreign loans and debentures some US$155 million equivalent, including loans
from a dozen new sources in the US and Western Europe. At home, the Govern-
ment, by controlling, setting priorities for and pre-empting the new issues
market, dissuaded IDBI from having frequent recourse to the local capital mar-
ket. This stand was reinforced by the fact that IDBI's debentures would have
to be indexed while IDBI is not allowed to index its loans to industry. Thus,
IDBI was able to tap various local sources and issue local debentures (linked
to the cost of living index) amounting to only some IL 64 million. For a
considerable portion of its requirements in local resources IDBI was accommo-
dated by the Government, which willingly met IDBI's needs. As noted above
(para. 3.17), the Government plans to remain IDBI's major provider of funds
in local currency.
Quality of Portfolio
3.19      As of June 30, 1974, arrears were 3.5% of IDBI's loan portfolio
(see Annex 11), with some 9% or IL 177.2 million of the portfolio affected
by arrears. Of this latter, 74.5% is guaranteed by the Government, leaving
only IL 45 million or 2.3% of the portfolio at IDBI's own risk. Arrears are
well within acceptable limits. Actual losses likely to be suffered by IDBI
are minimal, taking into account the guarantees and collateral security. The
auditors are of the opinion that the provision for losses (IL 15.6 million)
is adequate. In addition, IDBI has a special reserve for unforeseen losses
which totalled IL 21 million on June 30, 1974.
Financial Performance and Position
3.20      Income Performance.  Recent income statements and balance sheets
are given in Annexes 12 and 13. Earnings have shown steady, if not spec-
tacular, growth and have represented a return in recent years of 15 to 16%
on non-Government held share capital. Administrative expenses have been
held to between 0.3 and 0.4% of average total assets, among the lowest of
the DFCs associated with the Bank Group. In 1973 the dividend rate on
Ordinary A share was 13-1/4% and on other classes of shares from 3% to
11-1/4%. In spite of the increasing dividend amounts, the payout ratio has
been declining since 1970, amounting to 61.5% in 1973. IDBI earns a spread
of 2.2% on its lending activities (see Annex 14), which is adequate and allows
satisfactory increases in reserves after the payment of dividends.
3.21      Financial Position.  IDBI has operated over the years with a cur-
rent ratio of less than one. This tight liquidity position is a reflection
of its practice of keeping its resources fully committed and, at times, even
slightly overcommitted (see para. 3.17). It is able to meet its short-term
requirements through long-standing arrangements for short-term accommodation
with the Bank of Israel. In spite of the liquidity position, IDBI's finan-
cial position is sound.



- 12 -
3.22       IDBI's increased borrowings are causing its debt/equity ratio to
rise. This ratio, as defined in the last Bank Loan Agreement, had reached
the three to one limitation on June 30, 1974 and, as a direct result of
the November 10, 1974 devaluation of the Israeli pound, most likely exceeds
the limit now. A ratio of three to one is very conservative for an institu-
tion as financially strong and mature as IDBI and it is proposed to increase
this ratio to five to one. This ratio is still conservative for IDBI but it
will subject IDBI to pressure to increase its equity base.
3.23      Audit.  IDBI's accounts are audited by Messrs. Somekh, Chaikin,
Citron & Co., an Israeli firm of independent public accountants. The fi-
nancial statements have always been approved without qualification.
D. IDBI's Prospects
The Environment
3.24       The Development Plan for Industry 1974-78.  The Government had
prepared an Economic Plan 1974-78 in 1973 which is now out of date and under
revision. A Development Plan for Industry 1974-78, produced in 1974, pro-
jects a real GNP growth of 7.5% per annum during this period, assuming full
employment, a 3.2% growth of the labor force (which implies an influx of
some 60,000 immigrants a year), and an annual rise in national productivity
of 4.5% (6% in industry). Industrial investment is forecast to increase by
16% a year in real terms, while industrial output by 11%. Industrial exports
would increase by some 30% per annum, rising much faster than total merchan-
dise exports. The Preferential Trade Agreement with the EEC, inter alia, is
expected to facilitate the expansion of exports to these countries.
3.25       The years 1975 and 1976 will be particularly difficult for Israel.
Measures to stabilize the economy are bound to have a restrictive effect on
public spending, particularly non-industrial development programs, while the
import capacity of the country will remain under severe strain. The standard
of living will most likely decline and some unemployment may also be created,
particularly in non-industrial sectors. According to tentative estimates of
the Bank economic mission, real GNP may grow only slowly during 1975 and 1976,
although it may pick up thereafter. The economic mission also projects con-
tinuing annual deficits on goods and services of about US$3-3.5 billion in
the next five years. However, the basic balance, except for 1975 when the
deficit may reach US$300 million, is projected to show small surpluses of
around US$100 million each year, reflecting rapid growth of exports and a
projected gradual rise in unilateral transfers and other capital inflows.
In light of the above remarks, the targeted growth rates of GNP, industrial
investment and exports in the Plan appear to be optimistic, even assuming an
easing of the political situation. Achievement of the Plan's targets is
heavily conditioned on the country's export performance and the magnitudes
of such uncertain factors as defense expenditures, immigration and inflows
of foreign capital.



Forecast ot-Upeiwaticns and Resources
3.26      Forecast of Operations.  IDBI's business prospects are good.  The
Government will continue to lay heavy stress on induistry as the main way to
improve export earnings, to absorb new immigrants and prevent emigration,
and to develop the more backward areas. It can therefore he reasonably ex-
pected that a high level of industrial investment will be maintained despite
the enunciated austerity program and the slowdown in the world economy. This
view is reinforced by the fact that 75-80% of industrial investment in Israel
is in expansion projects. Industrial investment in Israel can reasonably be
expected to increase by 14% in 1975 and 1976 and about 15% annually in 1977-
79 in real terms. IDBI forecasts commitments of IL 2.8 billion over the two-
year period July 1975-June 1977 and of IT, 8.4 billion during 1975-79, based
on the above more realistic growth rates of industrial investment and on the
size of its pipeline (over IL 1.5 billion on September 30, 1974). This would
result in IDBI financing about 27% of total industrial investment. IDBI's
projections appear attainable.
3,27      Resource Requirements.  IDBI's projections of loan operations and
cash flow statements (see Annexes 15 and 16) indicate that during the five
years 1975-1979 IDBI will disburse some IL 7.3 billion (US$1.2 billion equiv-
alent) in new resources. Arrangements have been made or at least begun for
about IT, 3.3 billion of this amount. Well over half of these IL 7.3 billion
is expected to be in foreign exchange, including all of the amount to be
raised from as yet unidentified sources.
3.28      Local Currency.  IDBI estimates that half of its loans will be in
local currency and half in foreign exchange. For the two-year period July
1975 through June 1977, during which the proposed Bank loan will be committed,
IDBI is expected to make commitments of IL 1,420 million in local currency.
These will be covered by loans or other transfers from the Government, local
debentures, retained eaniings and loan collections, with the Government
covering any shortfall.
3.29      Foreign Exchange.  IDBI's projected foreign exchange commitments
over the same two-year period are some US$240 million equivalent. About half
of this amount will be covered from existing lines of credit or new loans
already identified and at various stages of negotiation. The rest will have
to be covered by as yet unidentified sources. The proposed Bank funding would
help to fill part of this gap.
Projected Financial Situation
3.30      Projected Profitability.  Projected income statements are given
in Annex 17. Net earnings are projected to grow from 1974 to 1979 at 13%
a year. IDBI will probably allocate the proposed Bank funds to each of the
three development areas in roughly equal portions, resulting in an average
onr-lending rate of 10 to 11% for the Bank funds (see para. 2.12). The Gov-
ernment, assuming the foreign exchange risk and providing a good portion of
IDBI's capital, maintains IDBI's spread on most of its lending activities
at 1-3/4%. IDBI's weighted average on-lending rate for all funds it employs



comes close to 11%. Administrative expenses are forecast to continue to be
held to the low level of about 0.4% of average total assets.
3.31      Because the forecast assumes that all new resources (other than
retainecd earnings) will be in the form of debt, the share capital becomes
progressively more highly leveraged. The return on non-Government held
share capital is projected to grow from 22% in 1974 to 45% in 1979. While
it is likely that additional equity will have to be obtained, much of this
will no doubt be issued to the Government with a low (perhaps 3%) dividend
rate, so the return to the private shareholders will remain satisfactory.
The pay-out ratio is expected to increase in 1974 and 1975, reaching 73.5%
in the latter year, before beginning again to decline. This is a result
of the November 1974 devaluation which increased the cost in Israeli pounds
of dividends payable in dollars. Nevertheless, the build-up of reserves is
satisfactory.
3.32       Financial Position.  IDBI's projected balance sheets (see Annex 18)
indicate that it expects to continue to operate with a current ratio of less
than one, using the Bank of Israel's short-term accommodation to meet its
short-term requirements. Experience supports the continuation of this ar-
rangement. Its loan portfolio is forecast to grow at an annual rate of 28%,
somewhat faster than total assets (23%). Provisions for losses, which amount-
ed to 0.8% of the loan portfolio at the end of 1973, are expected to amount to
1.3% of the portfolio at the end of 1979. Considering the growth of other
reserves, this position is satisfactory.
3.33      As a direct result of the assumption that all new resources will
be in the form of debt, the debt/equity ratio, as defined in the most recent
Loan Agreement, is projected to exceed the proposed new limit of five to one
in 1976 and to reach ten to one in 1979. If, say, IL 300 million of the new
resources were in the form of equity, this ratio would not exceed five to
one until 1978.
3.35       Interest coverage is forecast to drop from 1 .8 times in 1974 to
1.5 times in 1977 and remain at that level.  Loan collections from its bor-
rowers are forecast to exceed by substantial amounts loan repayments IDBI
must make in each of the years covered by the projections. The cushion is
provided by the large amount of resources expected to be made available as
perpetual deposits which have no repayment obligations (except in certain
highly unlikely circumstances). Debt service coverage is satisfactory.
IV. APPRAISAL OF
THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
A. The Role of R&D in Israel's Development
4.01       R&D is a key element in Israel's strategy of promoting export-
oriented industries based on sophisticated product design and production



- 15 -
techniques. 1/ This strategy requires a high-level research capability
closely integrated with sophisticated marketing and commercial skills at the
enterprise level. It is based on the conviction in Israel that continuing
reliance on foreign investment and licensing to acquire technology and know-
how does not generally provide a sufficient competitive edge, and is intended
to take advantage of one of Israel's major resources: its wealth of technical
talent.
4.02      Exports based on sophisticated technology doubled between 1968 and
1973, reaching US$246 million, or 38% of industrial exports excluding dia-
monds. This is a remarkable effort for a country the size of Israel, accom-
plished in a short period of time. The Government projects that exports of
science-based industrial products will grow at over 30% per annum in the next
five years. This implies that an increasing number and range of industrial
enterprises would have to strengthen their ability toconmercialize technical
innovation.
4.03      Israel has traditionally emphasized basic and applied research in
university and government laboratories, and has paid insufficient attention
to developing the requisite capabilities for actually using and commercializ-
ing the available knowledge. In Israel R&D is by and large not initiated by
enterprises, as is the rule in a mature technological environment, but rather
in research laboratories; the link with prospective users of the technology
and with the market for the product tends therefore to be tenuous. The Gov-
ernment is aware of this and is now trying to rectify the situation through
a reorientation of research programs toward commercial application (see also
paras 2.08 and 2.09). It has already instituted a program of 50:50 matching
grants and is proposing to institute a program of "projects of national im-
portance" in which the grant element will be higher (up to 80%). Such an en-
deavor demands on the part of the Government first, a willingness to impose
market discipline on the scientific and engineering staffs of public and pri-
vate institutions and second, considerable sophistication in the evaluation of
the commercial and technical risks involved in developing new products and
in launching them in international markets. Few Israelis have all the requi-
site skills and experience at the enterprise level in this field, and those
that do are often directly involved in the undertakings the Government wishes
to promote. The Government thus faces a two-phase problem: (a) to launch a
first set of projects of national importance on the basis of the best evalua-
tion possible with present staff; and (b) to build up its own internal capa-
bility to review proposals presented to it by private firms or, in the long
run, by risk-oriented investment firms.
1/   The Organization of R&D activity in Israel is briefly discussed in Annex
20.



- 16 -
B. The Proposed R&D Component
Objectives
4.04      The proposed R&D component is intended to assist the Government,
specifically the Office of the Chief Scientist (OCS), to strengthen its capa-
bility to evaluate proposals for commercially oriented R&D. This will involve
the development in the OCS, not only of the purely technological appraisal
capability typical of a scientific research granting agency, but the develop-
ment of technical, financial and commercial expertise sufficient to allow it
to competently review proposals for R&D on a commercial timetable leading to
commercLal prototypes and to specifications and selling prices dictated by
the market. To this end, agreement was reached during negotiations on speci-
fic steps to be taken to improve the OCS's existing structure (see paras
4.43-4.45).
4.05      OCS's organization and procedures will evolve continuously for some
time as it gains experience of operations, and the Bank will finance a number
of projects which will be used as a vehicle for the development of OCS's
capabilities. These projects include: (a) three subprojects aimed at devel-
oping commercial prototypes, which appear promising on the basis of prelim-
inary evaluation (rural telephone systems, prime movers, and tomographic
scanner); (b) two projects involving applied research at the early stages of
development (solar ponds and jojoba liquid wax); and (c) a multi-disciplinary
regional technological institution (the Negev R&D Authority). The subprojects
are tabulated below and are described in paras 4.13-4.29 of the report.
Foreign
Exchange     Bank Financing
Total Cost       Cost       Amount      _
--------------million US$---------------
I.   Infrastructure
1. Multi-disciplinary R&D
Facility (R&D Authority-
Negev)                         8.2           3.4          1.65       49
II. Pre--Commercial Development
2.   Solar Ponds (Scientific
Research Foundation)          1.7          0.3          0.30       100
3.   Jojoba beans-liquid wax
(R&D Authority-Negev)        1.6           0.6          0.40        66
III. Commercial Prototype Develop-
ment
4.   Rural Telephone System
(Tadiran)                    3.9           1.8          1.00        55
5.   Prime Movers (Ormat)           4.6           1.4          0.95       68
6.   Tomographic Scanner (Elscint)2.3             0.9          0.55       61
Technical Assistance to OCS   -              -           0.15       100
Total              22.3           8.4          5.00       60



- 1 7 -
4.06      The B8's direct and intimate involvement in the review of R&D sub-
projects provides a better opportunity to influence and accelerate the devel-
opment of the OCS's appraisal/supervision capabilities, than if the Bank were
merely to provide technical assistance, particularly through the discipline
that a financial intervention is likely to impose. Furthermore, by participat-
ing in Israeli programs, the Bank will gain valuable experience in dealing
with a range of problems to be faced in the near future by an increasing
number of developing countries, which aspire to develop the capability to in-
troduce new industrial products based on indigenous technology into the world
market.
Selection of R&D Subprojects
4.07      The six subprojects proposed for Bank funding were selected after
appraisal of nine projects of national importance, non-defense oriented, sub-
mitted by the Government. All nine were reviewed for their technological
feasibility and potential spin-offs; potential benefit to Israel's economy;
usefulness of the prospective technology to other developing countries; and
overall capability of the undertaking entity. Those projects involving pri-
vate firms were also reviewed for possibility of market success; inability of
the sponsoring firm to borrow for R&D or self-finance; and the experience,
ability to commercialize technology, and financial strength of the firms.
The ability of the Negev R&D Authority to render R&D services not generally
available to the industrial community was considered in the appraisal of this
subproject. The general approach and considerations applied to the initial
appraisal process followed by the Bank are discussed in paras 4.10 and 4.30.
An essential part of the decision to support the proposed subprojects was the
confidence in OCS's ability, properly strengthened, to keep them under con-
stant review.
Nature of R&D Project Appraisal
4.08      The distinguishing feature of the appraisal of a commercially
oriented R&D project is that it is a continuous process.  The initial
appraisal takes place before the product is even designed. It is based only
on a general notion of likely production method. For this reason, the
initial appraisal answers only the question whether a particular project
should be begun. This initial decision is based on a tentative assessment
of the potential financial and economic benefits of the project, the risk of
failure or partial success, and the R&D cost of the project. This judgment
is based in turn on a "best" estlmate of the technological feasibility of the
proposed product, of the market for this product, its projected price, and of
the practicability of the development and sales timetables. These estimates
are buttressed by a calculation of the estimated rate of return of the proj-
ect, if it is successful and if sales and cost targets are met.# An important
part of the decision to support a project is based on confidence in the over-
all ability of the sponsor to undertake the proposal -- confidence based on
his past record in successfully carrying out R&D projects on a commercial
timetable.



- 18 -
4.09      Once initially appraised, the progress of the project must be
constantly monitored against the targets and timetables originally drawn
up during appraisal. The timetables must be regularly revised and updated,
and the prospects for success, the risks, and the prospective costs and
benefits constantly reviewed and revised. If targets are not being met,
and if revisions of the targets would endanger the commercial success of the
project, the management of the firm must take appropriate steps either to
improve performance or to terminate the project. Since the appraisal is car-
ried out as an ongoing process rather than "once-and-for-all", the undertaking
is never faced with an "all-or-none" risk. The decision at each point is
whether to continue with the next phase of the project or to terminate it and
accept the loss of the investment up to that point.
4.10      The proposed R&D subprojects were appraised as follows.  The tech-
nological and marketing aspects of each proposal were reviewed, with the
assistance of specialized expertise drawn from inside and outside the Bank.
The appraisal mission visited and evaluated the laboratory facilities, inter-
viewed the technical staff and management of the sponsor, and evaluated the
sponsor's commercial strategy and financial status. The financial and eco-
nomic rates of return of each subproject, except for those whose potential
benefits are not amenable to quantification, were estimated in order to
demonstrate that, if successful, each of the subprojects promises a reason-
able rate of return. The rates of return obtained are necessarily based on
rough estimates of sales revenues and costs, including R&D expenditures, for
the products to be developed. They will need to be recalculated periodically
as development progresses. The risk element in the subprojects selected is
discussed in para 4.30.
4.11      In all subprojects financed by the Bank, progress against the pro-
posed timetables, prospects (including technological and commercial develop-
ments related to the ultimate success of the product) as well as all other
aspects of the normal supervision procedure, will be followed regularly by
the Office of the Chief Scientist (see paras. 4.43-4.46) and by the Bank. The
progress made by the Government toward the development of a capability to
appraise risk capital propositions will also be regularly reviewed, and tech-
nical assistance will be provided as necessary. The latter will take the form
of recommendations to the OCS to obtain the requisite expertise at its expense,
regular supervision missions, and desk reviews of reports, etc., to be submit-
ted regularly by the OCS. The Bank will thus be a participant in an institu-
tion building process, gaining new insights from this experience, applicable
in other developing countries. In addition, this scrutiny would lead to an
early decision to terminate the financing of a subproject whose probability
of success, in light of intervening events, might fall below a critical level.
4.12      The success of an organization's research program cannot be judged
by the outcome of a single project or small group of projects. It can only
be assessed on the overall outcome of a large number of projects, i.e. on
whether the fruits of the overall successes, including indirect benefits of
technological and economic nature, outweigh the total costs of the research
and development effort. This implies in effect that the success of the pro-
posed R&D project should be judged retrospectively by the success of the



- 19 -
Government's industrial R&D program as a whole, and not exclusively (and
narrowly) by the success of the R&D subprojects financed by the Bank. Simi-
larly, the success of any particular subproject should be judged in the con-
text of the overall success of the R&D program of the sponsor.
Major Features of R&D Subprojects
Infrastructure
Multi-Purpose Facility for Industrial R&D in the Negev
4.13      The Negev has been designated by the Government as the major region
for extensive industrial development due to its proximity to natural resources
and its present low level of development. A range of industrial enterprises
has already been established in the area while many new ones are appearing.
Industrial output of the Negev industries is projected to reach some US$500
million by 1978 compared with US$140 million in 1973. Provision of R&D facil-
ities is viewed as part of the region's infrastructure.
4.14      The proposed expansion of existing facilities, to be undertaken by
the non-profit R&D Authority of the University of Negev, would provide special-
ized R&D and other technical services not only to large industrial enterprises
but also to firms whose size does not allow them to conduct their own R&D.
The facility will elso perform work for university laboratories on a contract
basis. These services would in large part be an expansion of the Authority's
program of contract research and services to industry. The explicit under-
standing with the Government is that the subproject facilities will be used
only for non-defense purposes. Local industry shows a keen interest in the
Authority's expanded research programs and facilities. In fiscal 1974-75,
about half of the Authorityts IL 9.4 million income will come from research
and technical services. This relatively high proportion of earned income is
a sign of good management and close relations with industry.
4.15      The proposed expansion facility consists of:  (a) the establish-
ment of a Unit Process Laboratory, containing multipurpose intermediate
sized equipment, to scale up processes developed in the laboratory; the
facility would allow an in-depth study of processes and products including
costing and marketability; and (b) a Testing Service Facility to provide
support for R&D and manufacturing, including some quality control. Service
charges to industry for the use of the facility are expected to be sufficient
to cover its operating costs. The prospects for this happening are good (see
para 4.14). Management and staff of the R&D Authority are experienced and
capable. More details on this subproject in Annex 21.
4.16      OCS has agreed to report annually on the Authority's degree of
autonomy, activities, emphasis on contract applied research, budget, staffing,
work program, project selection methods, and internal financial controls.
OCS will also furnish regularly updated assessments of the likely demand by
industry for R&D infrastructure facilities.



- 20 -
Pre-Commercial Development
4.17      Solar Ponds.  The non-convecting pond is an innovative approach to
the problem of collecting and storing solar energy. A layered shallow black-
bottomed pool of salt water is set up so that the salt solution is maintained
denser at the bottom than at the top. The absence of convection allows solar
heat, absorbed by the more concentrated solution at the bottom, to be trapped
there. The heat can be extracted for conversion into electrical energy or
used directly. The project will be undertaken by the Scientific Research
Foundation, and will be directed by Dr. H. Tabor, a pioneer in the field. It
will consist of: (a) study of the technical problems and economic feasibility
of commercial scale operations; (b) building and putting into operation a
small scale prototype and providing a conceptual design for a desalination
plant and for the production of electric power in the range of 10 megawatts.
4.18      The commercialization of this project is inherently speculative
and a number of technological and economic questions remain to be resolved.
Preliminary estimates by the Scientific Research Foundation indicate that
power from solar energy could be produced at about 34 Mils/KW hr. This
rate would be competitive with small power plants, usually diesel, but
could not compete with conventional production of electrical energy in
large installations. If successful, initially therefore it could be used
for small-scale production of electrical energy and for direct use of low
temperature heat in hot areas. With rising fuel costs, the proposed technique
could lead to expanded use of this type of energy. More details in Annex 22.
4.19      Wax Production from Jojoba Beans.  The jojoba (pronounced "ho-ho-ba"),
is a desert plant producing beans which, when pressed, yield a liquid oil with
unique and useful properties resembling those of sperm oil. By hydrogenation,
the oil can be transformed into a wax with additional and unique properties.
4.20      The subproject consists of research intended to convert jojoba
from a wild plant to a commercial crop in the Negev and to develop a family
of chemical compounds of even higher commercial value than those presently
derived from sperm oil and carnauba wax. The research will be carried out
within the R&D Authority and will constitute an individual project budgeted
separately from the core institutional support being provided to the Author-
ity (see paras. 4.13-4.16). Extensive chemical tests of the products, under
the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences in the U.S., have stimulated
favorable interest.
4.21      The primary benefit of this project would be the ultimate establish-
ment of an attractive agrochemical business, producing a wide array of valua-
ble commercial products and using arid land of limited value. Preliminary
estimates of market possibilities and production costs are encouraging. De-
tails in Annex 23.



Commercial Prototype Development
4.22      Rural Telephone System.  This project consists of the development
of an electronic telephone system especially designed to provide a means of
telephone communication to communities of 100 to 400 potential subscribers.
This is a challenging commercial opportunity for a relatively small but sophis-
ticated firm to capture part of a market that has not been a principal target
of dominant suppliers of world telecommunications equipment.
4.23      The system will consist of an integrated package of an exchange,
a multiplexer, and a radio link. The exchange will be compact, relocatable,
modular, all-electronic, pre-packaged and pre-installed. Developed and
developing countries have an increasing need for rural exchanges but the
market now is dominated by a few big suppliers and is difficult to break into.
4.24      The R&D will be done by Tadiran, Israel's largest electronics manu-
facturer and a company with a proven record of success in the telecommunica-
tions field. Tadiran will design, assemble and test the prototype in its
excellent facilities. Market studies will be integrated with design activi-
ties to assure precise knowledge of customer requirements, adaptation of the
equipment to the clients' needs, and efficient sales promotion. When the
development is complete, the company will manufacture the product in its own
plants and would be willing to install plants in other countries. The finan-
cial (after taxes) and economic rates of return, if the project is success-
ful, are estimated at 34% and 33%, respectively. Its association with the
multinational firm of General Telephone and Electronics International will
strengthen its international marketing capability, whereas the Government
subsidy encourages this multinational firm to do part of its R&D in Israel.
For details see Annex 24.
4.25      Prime Movers.  This project consists of the development of a family
of five prime movers (engines) with appropriate prototypes and market studies.
They would be designed so as to be compatible with a variety of energy sources,
such as solar, wood, waste products and geothermal. The items to be developed
may include: (a) 1-5 horsepower village engine which could use wood, agricul-
tural waste or biogas as a supplementary fuel; (b) engine for pumping drinking
water; (c) 100-1000 watt power generator for rural TV educational systems and
for local telecommunications; (d) 5-15 horsepower engine for locally assembled
multipurpose tractor; and (e) conceptual design of a 1-10 megawatt turbogen-
erator for production of electricity from geothermal, solar or ocean thermal
gradients.
4.26      The company, Ormat Turbines, Ltd., is a pioneer and technological
leader in the field of Rankine cycle turbines, using organic working fluids.
Some of its related products, which were developed from prior solar energy
research, have given 8 years of reliable maintenance-free service in remote
areas.
4.27      Major advantages of the proposed engines would be their high relia-
bility, unattended and maintenance free operation, and use of non-conventional
low cost fuels. The market therefore for the family of engines would be in



- 22 -
isolated areas where maintenance of diesel engines is difficult, or where
conventional fuel is expensive or not readily available. A major problem in
the product development will be to identifv and definie this markot procisjtv.
to eliminate product ideas which do not have a market potential, and to de--
sign a product line accordingly. Ormat's experience with and appreciation
of the special requirements of developing countries should facilitate this
market definition. The financial (after taxes) and economic rates of return
of the project, if successful, are estimated at 41% and 43%, respectively.
However, since the underlying technoeconomic and marketing studies at present
lack the requisite sophistication and depth, Ormat will carry out initially
a thorough study of product lines, while limiting engineering to aspects
likely to be required in any case. This will allow time for a more precise
definition of the proposed product lines before detailed engineering studies
are undertaken. Further details on this subproject in Annex 25.
4.28      Tomographic Scanner.  Tomography (from the Greek "tomos", a section,
and -graphy), a new technique for using a computer and X-rays to locate tumors
and other diseases, is thought to be one of the most important recent innova-
tions in the field of radiology. Currently, there are two tomographs on the
market and several more are known to be under development. This project, to
be undertaken by Elscint Ltd., proposes to develop a more versatile and higher
performance scanner than is currently available, by reducing the scanning time,
enlarging the field of view of the scanner, and by reducing the price of the
equipment.
4.29      Elscint, a well-managed, aggressive and financially sound enter-
prise, has an impressive record of product development. The largest part
of the output will be exported, mostly to developed countries. Competition
exists and is likely to increase. At the same time, entry of new firms in
this field attests to the good market prospects of this type of equipment
and adds to the justification for its development. The project will enable
Elscint to build a competent product development team. The financial (after
taxes) and economic returns of the project, if successful, are estimated to
be 30% and 13%, respectively. Details in Annex 26.
The Risk Element
4.30      All R&D projects carry a measure of risk, in that satisfactory tech-
nical solutions may not be found for developing a commercial prototype, or
solutions may be too costly, or there may be changes in the prospective mar-
ket. The risks involved in the subprojects presented here are reasonable and
taking them is an essential part of the Government's long-range strategy for
industrial growth. These risks are as follows. The Negev R&D Authority is an
infrastructure project and carries only the risk that the research and tech-
nical support services provided to local industry might not always lead to
commercial results, or that the Authority might not be able to fully utilize
its facilities and break even. This risk is inherent in the establishment
of any new research undertaking; indeed, similar risks are involved in the
establishment of any new institution. With the two projects involving "pre-
commercial development", the risk is that the researchers may not succeed in
developing a commercially viable technology for jojoba bean agriculture or



-23 -
lor so'ar pc- -: aese are nonxial risks tor pioneer applied researcn proj ecz
of this nacure.  The projects are very promising, but many hurdles remain to be
overcome before commercial success can be achieved.  With the three commercial
prototypes, the risk is of a different nature. The three israeli companies
must hold their own in highly competitive international markets involving
soph'Lsticated technologies. The risks in such efforts are high but necessary.
The calculations in Annexes 24-26 show that rates of return for these sub-
projects are high but sensitive to relatively small changes in operating costs
and sales revenues. This is normal in the launching of new high technology
products and points to the need for constant review of the targeted costs and
benefits. If the subprojects are successful, the potential financial results
and technological spin-offs could be large in relation to the R&D investment.
The decision to accept the risks is part of the ongoing appraisal procedure
referred to earlier (paras 4.08-4.10). OCS will assess the extent and varia-
tion of these risks as development proceeds and, subject to Bank approval,
will withdraw financial support from any subproject whose probability of suc-
cess declines below a critical level. The Government concurs that not more
than one substitution of a new subproject for any of those already approved
by the Bank is coatemplated, provided a convincing case could be made for it
and that the in4 tial appraisal of the substitute subproject would not pose
serious expertise or manpower problems for the Bank.
Cost Estimates and Financing
4.31      Project Cost.  Total project cost is estimated at IL 134 million
(about US$22 million) over a five-year period, of which 38% would be in for-
eign exchange. A breakdown of expenditures for each subproject and details
on the inflators used are presented in Annex 27. Estimated price increases
are based on detailed analysis of price trends during the time of appraisal.
Cost estimates for each R&D subproject are summarized below; they include an
allowance of 54%O for price contingencies. No provision was made for other
uncertainties (e.g., delays, unforeseen technical problems, etc.), since their
assessment in R&D projects would be extremely speculative.
Project Cost /1
Foreign
IL Million            US$ Million          Exchange
SubIrojects                  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Component %
Mlultipurpose R&D
Facility                   29.0   20.7    49.7   4.8    3.4        8.2      41
Solar ponds                   8.6    1.4    10.0   1.4    0.3        1.7       18
Jo1o.a Beans (liqu'd wax)   5.6    3.7        9.3   1.0    0.6       1.6      38
Rural Telephone System       12.7   10.9    23.6   2.1    1.8        3.9       46
Priq)e Movers                19.3    8.2    27.5   3.2    1.4        4.6       30
To0ographic Scanner           8.3    5.3    13.6   1.4    0.9        2.3       39
ToLal                  83.5   50.2   133.7  13.9    8.4    22.3          38
i)   Includes 54% price contingencies.



- 24 -
4.32      Financing.  Bank funding in the amount of US$5 million is proposed,
which would cover about 60% of the estimated foreign exchange component of
the total R&D expenditure of the proposed subprojects. Project financing
would be provided by the following sources.
Project Financing
(IL million)
Grant Element
% of Total
Subprojects              Sponsors Loans Gov't IBRD  Total Amount Project Cost
Multipurpose R&D
Facility                 16.0    14.3   9.5  9.9   49.7   28.6         58
Solar Ponds                 3.9      2.8   1.5  1.8   10.0    5.2        52
Jojoba Beans (liquid wax)  1.8       3.5   1.6  2.4    9.3    7.0        75
Rural Telephone Syst.       4.6      4.6   8.4  6.0   23.6   17.6        75
Prime Movers                3.2    10.6   8.0  5.7   27.5   17.7         64
Tomographic Scanner         4.1      1.3   4.9  3.3   13.6    8.7        64
Total            33.6    37.1  33.9 29.1  133.7   84.8        63
…----------…US$ million------------
5.6     6.1   5.6  4.911 22.3   14.0        63
/1   Including US$150,000 earmarked for "OCS Technical Assistance't, total
Bank funding amounts to US$5 million (see Table in para. 4.05 and para.
4.36).
The Bank funds would cover 22% of the estimated total R&D outlays over the
period required for the completion of the subprojects; sponsors would be
required to contribute from their own resources 25%, which is considered
reasonable and within their financial means, and to borrow from investment
banks another 28%; the Government would supply the balance of 25%. Since the
amount of the grant element (see paras. 2.09 and 4.34) is estimated at IL 85
million (US$14 million), or 63% of the total cost of R&D expenditures for all
proposed subprojects on average, the sponsors would in effect contribute only
37% instead of the 53% initially financed. The Government has agreed to pro-
vide the requisite funds to cover both the foreign exchange requirements of
the subprojects over and above the part to be financed by the Bank, and the
local currency requirements (grants) for all Bank-financed subprojects, as
appropriate. In addition, the Government has undertaken to ensure the avail-
ability of funds for construction and equipment from investment banks.



- 25 -
Disbursement and Procurement
4.33      OCS Disbursement Procedures.  According to current practice, which
is to be continued, the contract signed between OCS and the sponsor indicates
the intention of the Government to finance the project for the estimated pe-
riod required for the completion of the proposed R&D, but disbursements are
approved and effected only for one year at a time (usually projects take 2
to 5 years to be completed). Following the annual assessment of the tech-
nical progress made, the contract is renewed for another year and so on.
There has been no adverse reaction to this policy of disbursement in annual
tranches. In projects of national importance, such as those to be financed
by the Bank, the review committees (see paras. 4.43-4.44) will recommend the
extension of the contract every year, following a comprehensive review of
the subproject (e.g. progress made, new developments in the researched
field, changes in size of prospective markets, etc.).
4.34      The Government (OCS) will fund outlays on R&D in approved projects
of national importance, including those to be financed by the Bank, in the
following way. The Government will bear the entire cost of highly specialized
equipment (a rather small proportion of the total expenditure on equipment).
This type of equipment will be used free of charge by the sponsor until com-
pletion of the project, with the Government always retaining ownership.
For other equipment, upon the recommendation of the OCS, the sponsor will
receive a concessionary medium-term loan from an investment bank at 8% per
annum. The sponsor, however, will be reimbursed by the Government for 80%
of the cost of this equipment over a period of five years. Furthermore, the
Government will assume the entire cost of supplies and services purchased
abroad by the sponsor; salaries and related costs of the additional R&D staff
the sponsor will hire; administrative expenses strictly related to R&D; and
expenses for foreign travel of the sponsor's staff made in connection with the
R&D. Funds for construction, for which Bank funds will not be used, will be
provided from financial institutions at the OCS's recommendatiorn at 8% per
annum. The Government will ensure in the contracts with individual enter-
prises that, in successful cases, part of the profits--1% to 4% of sales for
a period of 10 years, as judged appropriate by OCS 1/--will go to a special
fund to support future research in projects of national importance. The
proposed arrangement appears satisfactory and allows for flexibility in the
light of experience and the financial structure and performance of the com-
panies involved (see also para. 6.03).
4.35      Disbursement of Bank Loan.  On submission of appropriate documenta-
tion, certified by the OCS, the Bank would reimburse the Government for the
foreign exchange cost of: (a) imported equipment and materials; and (b) ser-
vices obtained from outside the country and salaries and travel expenses of
1/   As an order of magnitude, in case of success a charge of 3% on sales would
imply a levy of US$10 million on Ormat, US$2.4 million on Tadiran, and
US$2.7 million on Elscint over a period of ten years of commercial pro-
duction on the basis of sales projections by the companies (in 1974
prices).



- 26 -
foreign experts, as required and up to the limit indicated in the Table in
para. 4.05 for each subproject. An estimated disbursement schedule is given
in Annex 30. This approach is recommended in view of the inherent uncertain-
ties as to the ultimate success of the proposed subprojects and the desire to
finance part of as many eligible subprojects as possible.
4.36      A sum up to US$150,000 may be allocated from the Bank funds (see
Table in para. 4.05), with the Bank's approval, to cover the foreign exchange
costs of consultants, travel and other equipment and services needed to
enable the OCS to: (a) strengthen its institutional appraisal/supervision
capability (see paras. 4.43-4.45) for projects of national importance, in-
cluding those financed by the Bank; (b) undertake studies needed to evaluate
the contribution of projects of national importance and other policies or
programs sponsored or considered by the OCS, to the commercialization of
industrial technology in Israel, including the possible application of such
technology to related problems in other developing countries; and (c) enable
OCS to resolve ad hoc problems expeditiously.
4.37      Procurement.  Bank funds will not be used to finance civil engineer-
ing works, which amount to only US$1.4 million and involve three subprojects
in different locations. R&D equipment is to a considerable extent specialized
and proprietary. The individual items are of relatively small value and
procurement is spread over a period of up to five years; bulking is not fea-
sible. Furthermore, there is adequate representation of foreign suppliers
locally to ensure competition. As at present, OCS would satisfy itself about
the need for the equipment, the actual purchase and use, and its cost. How-
ever, OCS should require the applicant to request quotations for equipment
from at least three suppliers if the value of each item is over US$20,000.
C. Project Implementation
The Project Unit
4.38      The project unit for the R&D component will be the Office of the
Chief Scientist (OCS) in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which has
been in existence for four years. The OCS has the basic responsibility of
implementing the Government's policies for industrial R&D, and operating
responsibility for administering Government industrial laboratories, the
matching fund program, and the new program of R&D projects of "national
importance". The functions of the OCS are described in Annex 28. An Organ-
ization Chart is attached as Annex 29.
4.39      Management.  Professor Y. Yaakov, Chief Scientist since March 1974,
has wide technical and managerial experience, provides competent leadership,
and has an excellent understanding of the problems of industrial technology
in Israel. His deputy, Dr. M. Zirin, also Director of the Industrial Research
Administration, is experienced and capable.



_I27 _
4.40      Staff.  OCS is presently understaffed but it is expanding.  At the
end of the last fiscal year (March 31, 1975), the permanent staff of profes-
sionals had increased from 9 to 13 by the addition of 2 technical experts
(one of whom was appointed as Chief Technologist) and 2 economists. More-
over, as is current practice, OCS will continue to rely on part-time special-
ists who can be readily hired and for whose services suitable budgetary
arrangements exist. Ability to hire specialists on an ad hoc basis increases
the range of expertise OCS can have at its disposal.  OCS can also draw on
experts available at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and in the Re-
search Institutes it supervises. OCS's staff is experienced and well moti-
vated. It is projected that in fiscal 1976, about ten additional profes-
sionals of various specialities will be recruited.
4.41      Accounting System.  OCS's accounting system is rudimentary as it
relies for this type of service on the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and,
for audits of grantee enterprises, on a private firm of public accountants.
However, steps are being taken to improve the situation, and arrangements to
secure normal accountability on Bank-financed activities were agreed upon
during negotiations.
4.42      Audit.  OCS's activities are reviewed annually by the Internal Comp-
troller of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. OCS's overall performance
and financial operations are audited by State Comptrollers. It was agreed
that the Government will furnish to the Bank within one month after publica-
tion the part of the Accountant General's (Ministry of Finance) annual fi-
nancial report submitted to the State Comptroller dealing with OCS operations
as well as any evaluation reports of OCS operations produced by the State
Comptroller, with special reference to Bank-financed subprojects. Further-
more, the firm of public accountants employed by the OCS will also prepare
an annual report for the Bank on OCS's activities, including recommendations
for possible improvements.
Development of OCS's Organization and Appraisal/Supervision Capability
4.43      OCS's appraisal and supervision work needs to be upgraded.  The
Chief Scientist is cognizant of this and is setting up standing review commit-
tees, composed of up to seven experts, of which at least two will be OCS staff
members. One of the latter will be designated to monitor each subproject,
including those financed by the Bank. In the absence of a qualified OCS
staff member to serve as monitor, OCS will appoint a staff member as assistant
monitor and will seek an outsider as monitor, who will train and supervise
the work of the assistant monitor. The members of the review committees
will have technological, financial, marketing and business planning competence,
and are expected to be drawn from universities, scientific institutes, the
Government and the business community. Recruitment of qualified staff is
OCS's major concern and will be reviewed by Bank supervision missions.
4.44      The review committees will scrutinize appraisal and supervision
reports of R&D projects of national importance and will advise the Chief
Scientist on their merit, being directly responsible to him. The establish-
ment of review committees is an important step toward strengthening the



- 28 -
appraisal/supervisory capability of the OCS, and the Bank will follow closely
the progress and quality of their work. Three such review committees, cover-
ing the fields of electronics, mechanical engineering and industrial crops,
have already been established and will supervise four of the six subprojects
to be funded by the Bank. Others will be set up for solar ponds and the R&D
Authority of the Negev, and for other projects of national importance as
necessary. Constitution of an appropriate review committee for a Bank funded
subproject is a condition for disbursement of Bank funds.
4.45      The review committees will have responsibility for up to four proj-
ects at a time. The committee will review the feasibility study prepared by
the sponsor and will agree with him on a development program schedule, which
will serve as a yardstick for monitoring the progress. The sponsor will
produce quarterly reports which will be reviewed by the monitor and by the
Chief Scientist. As the project progresses, the committee, through the
monitor, will be in frequent contact with the sponsor to review the technical
progress made, the currently projected costs, changes in market conditions
and price structures, technological advances in the field, etc. If targets
are not achieved, the committee will recommend to the Chief Scientist either
assistance to resolve the difficulties or termination of the project. The
thoroughness of this review will increase as the OCS gains experience and,
over the next several years, the OCS should evolve a greater capability to
review proposals for the development of commercial prototypes according to
principles of risk capital analysis. The committee is expected to meet at
least quarterly and to review the quarterly reports and the comprehensive
annual report to the Chief Scientist prepared by the monitor. Such quarterly
and annual reports prepared for the Bank funded subprojects, including the
committee's and the Chief Scientist's recommended action, will be submitted
to the Bank. OCS has agreed to employ independent foreign consultants to
review the progress of Bank financed subprojects, if the Bank so requests.
OCS may also, in consultation with the Bank, employ consultants to assist it
in appraising and reviewing other R&D projects of national importance (see
also para. 4.36). Consultants' services are estimated at 25 man-months.
4.46      Two years after the completion of each R&D subproject, OCS will fol-
low up arLd prepare a full report on the accomplishments of the R&D undertaken--
whether the product was actually developed; market success, profitability, and
export earnings of the product; market success in developing countries and
evidence of benefit to them; evidence of benefits to Israel over and above
the commercial success or failure of the particular product. The Bank will
also receive and review these reports on the subprojects it financed. Further-
more, within one year after completion of all Bank financed subprojects, the
OCS will prepare and submit to the Bank a comprehensive report assessing the
overall impact of the R&D component.
4.47      To counterbalance the disproportionate influence of the academic
scientists on Israeli science policy and to help determine priorities for
R&D programs funded by OCS, the latter will establish a Policy Advisory Com-
mittee, which would include representatives of the business, Government and
academic community.



- 29 -
V. APPRAISAL OF
THE VOCATIONAL/TECHNICAL TRAINING COMPONENT
A. Educational System and Development Strategy In Israel
5.01      Israel has a well structured, technically oriented and efficiently
run educational system. Compulsory education begins with kindergarten (age 5
years) and continues through eight years of primary education, or where the
new "reform" system is in operation, to six years of primary education fol-
lowed by three years of lower secondary education. Under the old system,
still operative in two-thirds of the country's schools, secondary education
extends over four years (grades 9 to 12) as compared with the new system of
three years each in lower (grades 7 to 9) and upper secondary education
(grades 10 to 12). The educational system is described in greater detail in
Annex 31; an Organization Chart for vocational/technical training is attached
as Annex 32; enrollments up to secondary level in 1973 are shown in Annex 33.
5.02      During fiscal years 1963 to 1972, total expenditures on education
increased by about 20% per annum (Annex 34). Of the fiscal year 1972 recur-
rent expenditures (Annex 35), about 34% of the total (mainly at the primary
level) is provided directly by the Government; local authorities account for
16% (mainly at the secondary level); and various non-profit institutions and
private organizations supply the remaining 50% (mainly at post-secondary
levels). The distribution of capital expenditures among the Government,
local authorities and non-profit institutions is 12%, 34% and 54%, respec-
tively.
5.03      Technical education is being emphasized at the secondary school
level by the establishment of new multi-lateral secondary schools with indus-
trial arts as a compulsory subject in the lower school and technical options
provided in the upper school. About 65% of boys and 35% of girls are present-
ly taking technical subjects either in the old technical secondary schools or
in the new multi-lateral schools.
5.04      To meet the need for a skilled labor force able to contribute effec-
tively to an expanding industrial sector (see para. 2.07), the Government has
initiated action (a) to raise overall educational standards and (b) improve
and expand training facilities and programs at the craft and technician levels.
As part of this effort, the Government has prepared a program providing for
an increase in the number of vocational training centers and trades taught,
and the gradual replacement of the small and thus uneconomical centers now in
operation by larger centralized institutions offering improved facilities and
programs; all new centers will also be used for short-term up-grading and
retraining courses. The Government's program and priorities for the develop-
ment of vocational/technical training are soundly conceived; however, imple-
mentation continues to be constrained by limited financial resources and will
need to be accelerated in order to meet the projected requirements for train-
ed manpower.



- 30 -
5.05      In order to meet the current and projected demands for all types of
adequately trained manpower (Annex 36) and of middle and high level techni-
cians, particularly in industry and commerce (Annex 37), the proposed compo-
nent would increase the existing training capacity of the project institu-
tions by about 167% and 54% in vocational and technician training, respective-
ly; the output of project institutions would be sufficiently increased to
meet about 35% and 30% of the projected shortage of skilled workers and tech-
nicians for 1985. The explicit understanding with the Government is that the
project facilities will not be used for military purposes.
B. The Proposed Vocational/Technical Training Component
General
5.06      The proposed vocational/technical training component would assist
the Government in improving and expanding its system of vocational/technical
training consistent with the country's socio-economic development strategy.
Specifically, the items proposed herein would enable the Government to: a)
replace existing uneconomical training centers with expanded regional facili-
ties offering a wider range of training opportunities; b) improve the quality
and level of courses at one existing training center and two technician
institutes by replacing obsolete equipment; and c) increase emphasis on the
training of skilled craftsmen and technicians for industry. The proposed
institutions, consisting only of academic and communal facilities and equip-
ment, are listed below, and further detailed in Annex 38; boarding accomoda-
tions and staff housing were not requested, consistent with the Government's
policy of minimizing the additional costs of constructing and maintaining such
facilities. Output from the proposed facilities would meet about 35% and 30%,
respectively, of the shortage of skilled workers and technicians, projected
for 1985.
Student Places        Estimated Annual
Institutions                   Grades    Existing  Added  Total          Output
Three technician/practical
engineering institutes         13-14       1,400     760   2,160         1,630/1
Construction and equipping
of the expansion of one in-
stitute (Beer Sheva) and
equipment only for two
institutes (Haifa and
Jerusalem)
Four vocational training
centers                       ungraded      510      850   1,360         1,825/1
Construction and equipping
of the expansion of three
centers (Haifa, Jerusalem
and Holon) and equipment
only for one center (Tel
Aviv).
/1   Combined output of day and evening classes.



- 31 -
Vocationa.l -:   t   Centers
5.07      Three of the four vocational training centers already exist and
Bank lending would be utilized to provide instructional equipment and 10
additional classrooms, 7 laboratories and 39 workshops. The fourth center
(Kiryat Hamelaka) will be relocated in an industrial building now being con-
verted for training purposes and the project would provide for equipment only.
The four training centers are located in the main growth regions of the coun-
try and would increase the number of training places to 1,360 by 1978, or
about 167% over their present capacity, while making possible the replacement
of three small obsolete and uneconomic centers.
5.08      The basic courses to be given at each center vary in length from
3 to 13 months according to the craft taught and to their designation as
t"youth" or "adult" courses. The former is normally concerned with boys or
girls of 16 to 18 years of age who have completed nine to ten years of full-
time day schooling. Depending upon family circumstances, youth trainees may
be awarded small subsistence and travel allowances and exemption from course
fees; adult trainees normally are 18 to 21 years of age and receive subsist-
ence and travel allowances according to the course followed and personal
circumstances.
5.09      Course offerings in the four vocational centers concentrate on
metal work, mechanics, electricity/electronics, carpentry, needle trades and
drafting. In addition, the centers are used for specialized up-grading and
re-training courses and for seminars of shorter duration. In the above fields,
vocational centers also offer apprenticeship courses (about 10% of total
course offerings) requiring attendance from one to three days per week; how-
ever, most such courses are given in specially designated apprenticeship
training centers.
Technician Training Institutions
5.10      Two of the three proposed institutions (Beer Sheva and Haifa) are
already in operation but are in a period of transition from widely dispersed
temporary facilities to more centralized accommodations. The third institu-
tion (ORT School of Engineering, Jerusalem) expects to operate in buildings
now under construction by September, 1975. In all three cases, continuing
phases of construction are planned. Under the proposed component, accommoda-
tions would be increased by 760 new places or about 54% over existing levels;
the output of technicians and practical engineers on a double shift basis
would increase by about 63% by 1980 from the present annual output of 1,000.
5.11      Courses leading to recognition as a "technician" are of one year's
duration (two years in evening courses) and for senior technicians or practical
engineers are of two years' duration (four years in evening courses). As part
of the certification requirements for trainees, an additional six to twelve
months are devoted to the preparation of a technical research project in their
respective fields of specialization. Consistent with development objectives,
the proposed project institutions will concentrate on training programs in
electrical/electronics fields, mechanical, instrumentation and controls and
automation technology.



- 32 -
Cost of the Vocational/Technical Training Component
5.12      The estimated cost and foreign exchange components of the various
parts of the proposed component are summarized below and set out in Annexes
39 and 40.
Israeli i (millions)         US$ (millions)
Items                 Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    %
Technician/practical
engineering insti-
tutes (3)              16.3    13.0    29.3       2.7     2.2      4.9   47.1
Vocational training
centers (4)            22.5    10.5    33.0       3.8     1.7      5.5   52.9
Base Line Costs
(Subtotal)            38.8    23.5    62.3       6.5     3.9    10.4  100.0
Contingencies:
Physical               3.6      1.8     5.4      0.6     0.3      0.9
Price                 21.0      6.0    27.0      3.5     1.0      4.5
(Subtotal)            24.6     7.8    32.4      4.1      1.3      5.4   51.9
Total Project Cost    63.4    31.3    94.7    10.6        5.2    15.8
5.13      Construction costs (Annex 39) were estimated on the basis of actual
bids on similar recent construction in Israel and adjusted to reflect regional
cost differences. Space standards are based on detailed schedules of accommoda-
tion consistent with curricula requirements. Equipment and furniture costs
were estimated for each category of goods and detailed lists would be compiled
during the design stage and presented for Bank approval prior to procurement.
Use factors for project schools would be economical with all facilities being
used on a double-shift basis.
5.14      Based on actual construction costs of similar facilities obtained
from the Department of Public Works, project costs would include contingency
allowances (Annex 40) for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the
estimated costs of site works, construction and professional services and 5%
for furniture and equipment. Estimated price increases during the implementa-
tion period are based on a detailed analysis of the construction cost index
and price trends at the time of appraisal. From 1975 through 1977, site work
costs are expected to increase annually by 20,15 and 12% for both local and
foreign costs; local construction costs and professional fees would increase
by 30, 25 and 20%, and the foreign exchange costs by 20, 15 and 12%. For
furniture and equipment, local and foreign exchange cost increases are esti-
mated at 12, 10 and 8% respectively. The total contingencies would amount
to about 52% of base line costs or about 34% of total costs including contin-
gencies.



- 33 
5.15     .Tne.2.-i foreignr exchange component is estimated at $5.2 million or
33% of the total costs; the proposed funding of $5.0 million would meet 96%
of the foreign exchange cost with the balance (consisting of $0.2 million for
furniture) being provided by the Government. Foreign exchange costs were
calculated as follows: site works, 10%; construction, 19%; professional serv-
ices, 5%; furniture, 30%; and equipment, 95%.
5.16      At full capacity, the proposed institutions would require about
US$5.7 million a year in operating costs, corresponding to about 2.1% of pro-
jected recurrent expenditures on education in fiscal year 1979 (Annex 41).
In view of the high priority assigned to the expansion and upgrading of
vocational/technical training, the Government can be expected to meet these
expenditures, as well as its share of the capital costs.
C. Implementation and Disbursement
Project Administration
5.17      A Project Unit would be established within the existing structure
of the Ministry of Labor (Annex 32) to implement and coordinate all aspects
of the project. The Director of Planning and Organization in the Ministry's
Department of Vocational Training is expected to assume the responsibilities
of Project Director; the remaining professional and support requirements for
project implementation would be carried out by existing staff now assigned to
similar functions in on-going programs. The appointment of the Project Direc-
tor, Equipment Procurement Coordinator, and Accountant would be a condition
of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
Procurement
5.18      Civil works and equipment -supply contracts, except for residual
equipment, would be awarded in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans; furniture would be locally procured and financed. Up
to 20% of equipment contracts may be won by local bidders, including 10% (or
US$300,000) in residual items. Local manufacturers of equipment would be al-
lowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports or
the existing rate of customs duty, whichever is the lower. Bid comparisons
would be made in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on the application of
domestic preferences in bid evaluation. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. The
Project Unit would be responsible for all aspects of bidding on equipment and
would coordinate with the Department of Public Works with respect to bidding
on civil works. No foreign firms are expected to submit bids on civil works,
given the relatively small size and widespread locations of project items and
the well developed construction industry in Israel.
5.19      Total construction costs of the proposed component would correspond
to less than 1% of the estimated value of public construction completed in
1974. An adequate number of qualified building contractors are available for
the project and an appropriate pre-qualification system is in operation.



- 34 -
Disbursement
5.20      Disbursement (Annex 42) for equipment would be on the basis of 100%
of the CIF cost or ex-factory price up to the amount of US$3.22 million which
is the estimated foreign exchange cost, including all contingencies. About
18% of the estimated total cost of civil works, including professional serv-
ices, would be financed by the proposed funding; these percentages would be
adjusted as necessary to distribute disbursements over the period of imple-
mentation. About 10 man/years of professional architectural services would
be required for design development and construction supervision.
Design and Implementation
5.21      Due to the urgent need for the extension of facilities included in
the proposed project items, qualified consultant architects have been
selected by the Ministry of Labor for preparing preliminary design studies in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank. Field supervision of proj-
ects would be conducted on a periodic basis by the consultant architects and
on a daily basis by the participating institutions under the coordination of
Public Works Department engineers and the Project Unit.
5.22      The constructing and equipping of project institutions is expected
to be completed in about three years after the signing of the Loan Agreement
(Annex 43). A one year period would be allowed for guarantees and closing
of accounts following the completion of equipment installation. The closing
date for disbursement would be June 30, 1979.
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN - OBJECTIVES AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed composite industrial credit project is expected to con-
tribute to the implementation of the Government's industrial development poli-
cies, in part through a development finance type operation and in part through
the funding of R&D and technical training, given the complementary role of
these components. A loan to finance all three components in the amount of
US$35 million will support high priority objectives and is justifiable and
appropriate. The particular contribution of each component to the achieve-
ment of these objectives is discussed briefly below.
6.02      IDBI Component.  The proposed funding of IDBI, to be on-lent on
average at about 10-11% per annum, 1/ will support projects exclusively in the
less-developed regions of the country (Areas "A" and "B") and export-oriented
projects regardless of their location, 2/ in consonance with the Government's
1/   The Government is in the process of implementing its decision of partial
indexation mentioned in para. 2.12 and, when implemented, it would be
applied to IDBI's subloans.
2/   A firm is defined as export-oriented if it exports a minimum of 20%, 30%
and 50% of its output according to its location in zones "A", "B" and "C",
respectively.



- 35 -
development objectives. Furthermore, a major part of these projects would
be in science-based industries which the Government is eager to promote.
Thus, IDBI will continue its developmental role, being the most important
financial instrument for implementing the Government's stated industrial
policies. On these grounds, the proposed funding of US$25 million to IDBI
appears fully justified. Bank funds will cover only a small part of IDBI's
projected foreign exchange resource gap in the next two years (10%). IDBI
would perforce have to continue, and to further intensify, its resource
mobilization effort abroad with the same diligence as in the recent past.
The funds will be used to finance the foreign currency component of fixed
capital costs of private sector projects with demonstrable economic viabil-
ity. Projects financed from the Bank loan will be located within the borders
of Israel as of January 1, 1967, and will not be defense oriented.
6.03      The R&D Component.  The industrial R&D component will enhance the
developmental impact of the overall loan. It will assist Israel in making
more effective use of its substantial body of scientists and technologists
in export-oriented expansion of science-based industries and in the more
intensive use of its limited natural resources. This addition to Government
funds will provide the needed incentives to relatively small private firms to
offset the risk of large losses inherent in attempts to commercialize new
technology and to offset the dearth of risk capital in the country.  On these
grounds, the Government's decision to share up to 80% the R&D expenditures of
the grantees appears justified.  It is very doubtful that these projects
would go ahead without Government support.  At the same time, the grantees
have a considerable stake in the proposal R&D program, in terms of own funds
to be sunk, high opportunity costs of technical staff involved in the project,
loss of prospective profits, past record of innovative projects, and prestige.
It can therefore be reasonably expected that the grantees would do their
utmost to achieve the best results.
6.04      Bank funding will also have institution building effects.  It will
help to further develop institutional mechanisms to link research activity
to production and marketing functions at the enterprise level. The appraisal
and supervision arrangement for OCS and the proposed set of subprojects should
provide opportunities to the Bank to suggest changes and to introduce new
approaches in the OCS's structure and operations, and thereby strengthen the
appraisal/supervision capabilities of the OCS. This being the first R&D
project, the Bank also stands to gain valuable insights in the appraisal and
implementation processes. Furthermore, the product and process innovations
to be developed under the funded subprojects can have important side benefits
for other developing economies in the form inter alia of design and engineering
services that are implicit in some of these subprojects (solar ponds, jojoba
beans, rural telephones).
6.05      Based on rough and tentative cost and benefit estimates, the finan-
cial and economic rates of return for three of the proposed subprojects, if
they are successful, were calculated; they are very satisfactorv. Similar
calculations for the multi-purpose facility of the Negev, the solar ponds and
the jojoba beans subprojects were not undertaken, as they would not have been



- 36 -
meaningful. The tentative character of the cost and benefits estimates is
underscored, since it should be borne in mind that the very purpose of the
prototypes the sponsors would develop is to obtain the information needed to
assess more accurately the manufacturing and financial viability of the sub-
projects.
6.06      The Vocational/Technical Training Component.  All proposed compo-
nents are fully consistent with the Government's overall strategy and priori-
ties for promoting greater efficiency and qualitative improvements in the area
of vocational/technical training, increasing the types and levels of training
opportunities and meeting the demand for a properly trained and sufficiently
flexible labor force. These objective are soundly conceived. The project
institutions would respectively meet about 35% and 30% of the projected
shortage of skilled workers and technicians for 1985. The total amount of
estimated expenditures would be directed specifically toward meeting the
existing and projected manpower constraints, particularly in the industrial
sector. 'The vocational/technical training component would also help reduce
economic and social disparities by providing increased training opportunities
for early leavers from the formal education system as well as for adult workers
and the sizeable number of immigrants requiring retraining to enable them to
be productively employed in a changing labor market.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
A. IDBI Component
7.01      IDBI continues to be a suitable, deserving and creditworthy borrower
of Bank funds. It is expected to continue to play an important role in financ-
ing private industry in Israel. Although it might contribute only marginally
to local currency resource mobilization due to constraining Government policy,
it has been successful in raising resources from abroad. It is expected to
continue to do so, with Government encouragement, and a Bank contribution will
provide effective support in these endeavors. Bank lending of US$25 million
is appropriate and recommended. The funds would be disbursed to finance:
(a) 100% of c.i.f. cost of imported equipment; (b) 50% of the cost of imported
equipment purchased in Israel; and (c) 20% of the cost of equipment produced
in Israel from imported components.
7.02      As noted in paragraph 6.01, the funds going to IDBI will be part of
a larger loan to the Government, which will include R&D and technical train-
ing components. They will be on-lent by the Government to IDBI for 15 years,
including about 2 years of grace, under an agreement between the Government
and IDBI the signing of which will be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan. There will be a separate Project Agreement between the Bank and
IDBI covering the normal provisions and covenants for DFC loans.



- 37/ -
7.03      IDBI will repay the Government, and the latter will repay the
Bank, according to identical amortization schedules which will be flexible
and will conform substantially to the aggregate repayment schedule of loans
IDBI makes to its borrowers with the proceeds of the Bank funds. IDBI's sub-
loans will have a maximum maturity of thirteen years, including an appropri-
ate period of grace. An initial tentative amortization schedule was agreed
upon during negotiations.
7.04      IDBI's continuing good record of operations permits the raising of
its debt/equity ratio, as defined in the previous Loan Agreement, from 3:1 to
5:1, and of the secured (by floating charges) debt to equity ratio from 2:1
to 5:1. Similarly, the free limit should be raised from US$750,000 to US$1
million with an aggregate free limit of one-half of the amount relent to IDBI
(as before); this should result in the Bank reviewing between six and ten
projects, an appropriate number.
B. R&D Component
7.05      The proposed R&D project deserves the Bank's support in view of its
significant contribution to the country's industrial development and institu-
tion building. To this end, Bank funding of US$5 million equivalent is pro-
posed. This is a reasonable amount, given that the R&D component is the first
of its kind to be undertaken by the Bank and in view of the element of risk
involved; yet, it is sufficient to give the Bank a significant stake in this
component. Bank funding will cover 60% of the foreign expenditures on import-
ed equipment, materials and services. Bank funds will not be disbursed until
an agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been entered into between OCS and
the sponsors.
7.06      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that:
(a)  it will place at the disposal of the OCS the necessary funds
to cover both the foreign exchange requirements over and above
the part to be financed by the Bank and the local funds (grants),
promptly as needed (para 4.32);
(b)  it will ensure the availability of the necessary funds at
investment banks to be drawn upon by the prospective
sponsors of Bank-financed R&D subprojects for construction
outlays and purchase of equipment (para 4.32);
(c)  OCS will establish review committees to meet at least quarterly
to assess the progress of each project assigned to them; they
shall not have responsibility for more th.3n four projects at a
time; they will submit their reports to the OCS and the Bank.
No disbursements would be made for a Bank-funded subproject
until a review committee for it has been established and
approved by the Bank (paras 4.43-4.45);



- 38 -
(d) OCS will establish a Policy Advisory Committee (para 4.47);
(e) before making any major change in the agreed research program
in each subproject, OCS would seek the Bank's concurrence.
In case of failure and consequent termination of subprojects,
the undisbursed balance would remain available for possible
reallocation;
(f) OCS will enter into contracts with sponsors whose research is
supported by Bank funds providing that technologies developed
directly or indirectly from such research will be licensed to
developing countries under reasonable conditions. The sponsors
will also agree that Bank support for R&D will not be represented
as approval of technologies or products resulting from such R&D
and will not be mentioned in product advertising or other pro-
motional literature. Furthermore, in successful cases, firms
will agree to contribute 1% to 4% of sales revenue for a period
of ten years to a special fund to support research in projects
of national importance (para 4.34).
7.07      The portion of the Bank loan for the R&D component would be repaid
by the Government over 15 years, including five years of grace, given the
long gestation period for R&D projects. The repayment schedule will be fixed
and form part of the composite single repayment schedule for the entire loan.
C. Vocational/Technical Training Component
7.08      The proposed vocational/technical training component will help al-
leviate increasing manpower constraints both quantitatively and qualitatively.
The project is suitable as a basis for Bank funding of US$5.0 million, to be
repaid by the Government over 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years.
The proposed funding, which would finance 96% of the estimated foreign ex-
change costs, would be equivalent to about 32% of the estimated total cost of
the project. It will finance 100% of foreign expenditures or of ex-factory
local expenditures for equipment, and 18% of total expenditures (representing
the estimated foreign exchange component) for civil works, including profes-
sional services.
7.09      Establishment of a Project Unit and appointment  of a Project
Director, Equipment Procurement Coordinator and Accountant will be conditions
of effectiveness (para 5.17).
7.10      The repayment schedule for the vocational/technical training com-
ponent will be fixed and part of the composite single repayment schedule
for the entire loan.
*         *          *



- 39 -
7.11      With the foregoing arrangements, this industrial development proj-
ect is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35 million to be repaid over 15 years,
including about two years of grace for IDBI and five years for the R&D and
vocational/technical training components.






iat NY!X
lvge 1
ISRAEL:  Summary of Investment and Export Incentives to Industrv
1.        The Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments 1/ distinguishes
four categories of projects, as follows:
a.   Approved Enterprise, in which are included new or expansion
(of at least 50% increase in fixed investment or production)
projects undertaking to export a minimum of 20%, 30% or 50%
of their production, depending on whether they are located
in a "A" zone (greatest development priority), "B" zone (less
development priority), or "C" zone (other areas already
developed). In particular branches of industry, export re-
quirements may be even higher. On the other hand, in zone
"A" investors may be exempted from the export requirements.
These projects are entitled to cash grants, development
loans, tax concessions, full exemption from duties on imported
machinery and equipment and other indirect taxes on locally
produced machinery, equipment and building materials, and
deferment of fees (i.e., stamp fees, registration fees,
capital fees, etc.).
b.   Recognized Enterprise, referring to companies which manufacture
products used as inputs to exporting industries, replace imports,
meet defense needs, or introduce new technologies. These firms
are eligible for tax concessions, development loans and deferment
of fees.
c.   Approved Investment, in which are included foreign currency
equity investments in or long-term loans to enterprises that
do not enjoy the approved status. Under this category, the
investor is entitled to income tax and estate duty concessions,
deferment of fees, and the right to repatriate his capital.
d.   Approved Property, referring to foreign currency investments
(by foreign residents) in immovable property in Israel. The
investors are eligible for tax concessions and deferment of
fees as in the case of Approved Enterprise (excluding exemption
from indirect taxes and charges).
2.        Grants 2/:  Approved enterprises may received cash grants as follows:
I/   The Law is administered by the Investment Center.
2/   The right to investment grants is limited to projects to be approved
until July 1, 1975, and implemented before June 30, 1977.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Machinery and        Buildings and Site
Equipment              Development
Zone A                                30%                        20%
Zone B                                20%                        15%
Zone C                                15%                        10%
To be eligible to receive the grant, which only exceptionally may exceed the
paid-up share capital, the enterprise must meet the following conditions:
a.   Equity.  The equity must not be less than:  30% of the fixed
assets in Zone "A", 40% in zone "B", and 50% in zone "C". In
addition, the Investment Center may require that the investment
in equity cover a certain proportion of the working capital
needs of the enterprise.
b.   Export Quotas.  In the case of new enterprises, the owners
must undertake to fill the following export quotas: 20% in
zone "A", 30% in zone "B", and 50% in zone "C". Major expan-
sions (involving a 50 percent increase in production or more)
are regarded as a new enterprise for the purpose of export
requirements.
c.   Conversion of Grant into Loan.  In zones "B" and "C" investors
may convert the grant, in whole or in part, into a loan 50%
greater in value than the grant on the same terms and conditions
as the loans extended by IDBI to approved enterprises in that
zone.
3.        Special Grant.  To promote the purchase of locally manufactured
equipment, approved and recognized enterprises are offered a special grant
amounting to 15 percent of the value of such equipment.
4.        Development Loans.  Approved enterprises are also entitled to
development loans repayable over a long term and at low interest rates.
The amount of the loan can reach 45% of the fixed assets in zone "A", 40% in
zone "B" and 33% in zone "C", while the interest rates charged are 8%, 10%,
and 12%, respectively. However, the sum of the investment grant and loans
cannot exceed 70% of the fixed assets in zone "A", 60% in zone "B", and 50%
in zone "C". Development loans to recognized enterprises are extended on
similar terms as to approved enterprises, except that the sum of the invest-
ment grant and loans cannot exceed 60% of the fixed assets in zone "A", 50%
in zone "B", and 45% in zone "C".



ANNEX 1
Page 3
5.        Tax Incentives.  Approved enterprises 1/ are exempt from income tax
and pay only a reduced cormpany profit tax (at 33%).  These exemptions apply
for the first five years that an enterprise has profits within the first ten
years after the beginning of operations. Dividends paid out of profits during
this period are also exempt from any further income taxes. During the period
of benefits, profits from an approved investment are taxed at a maximum rate
of 25%. Income from a foreign currencv investment in an approved investment
by a non-resident is tax free. The law also provides for accelerated depre-
ciation. For the first five years of their use in an approved enterprise,
machinery, equipment and buildings may be depreciated at a rate twice that
normally permitted (and in cases of unusual wear and tear at a rate two and
one-half times the normal). Furthermore, for the first five years (and possibly
for another five years) from their establishment, approved enterprises are
exempt from two-thirds of the property tax on buildings; they may be exempt
for five years (in whole or in part) from local property taxes; and they pay
only five-sixths of the property tax on equipment and business inventory for
ten years. Approved enterprises are exempt from customs duties, purchase
tax and are partly exempt from all other indirect taxes on equipment and
building materials. Finally, the payment of stamp tax on the issue of shares
and fees normally associated with registration of a new company may also be
deferred for five years.
6.        Science-based Industries.  Science-based ventures, in addition to
all other concessions granted by the Law for Encouragement of Capital Invest-
ment and the Law for the Encouragement of Industry, are entitled to Government
assistance amounting up to 50% of their R & D expenses and a grant for the
training of graduate employees. 2/ They can locate in special science-based
industrial parks linked with institutions of higher technical education on a
lease or ownership basis. Construction in such parks is granted the benefits
of approved enterprises in zone "A", regardless of their actual location.
The period of repayment for development loans varies between 14 and 20 years.
Loans are extended for 50% of the cost of buildings.
1/   The tax concessions granted to recognized enterprises are the same as
those extended to approved enterprises. However, recognized enterprises
are not exempted from indirect charges and duties on imported machinery,
equipment and building materials. The Investment Center though may
extend such exemptions at its discretion.
2/   In general, the Government encourages and participates in the financing
of industrial research projects, extending grants up to 50% of research
projects, following their approval. R & D expenditures for the develop-
ment of new products are tax deductible. Capital expenditure on R & D
is tax deductible over three years. Imported scientific equipment is
exempt from customs duties. For R&D projects of "national importance"
see text paras 4.03, 4.34. Similarly, the Government provides finan-
cial assistance in the training of workers in new or expanding enter-
prises located in zones "A" and "B".



ANNEX 1
Page 4
7.        Working Capital Loans.  In addition to the incentives in the form
of tax benefits, concessional loans and grants mentioned above, the Government
provides important working capital financing for exports and for projects in
the "A" and "B" priority development areas. These are referred to as "directed
credits." Export working capital loans are granted at 6% and the development
area working capital loans at 13%.
8.        Working capital financing for the development areas is provided to
approved projects exporting at least 40% of their output as follows: (a) 30%
of inventory requirements if the investor is located in zone "A"; and 20% of
inventory requirements if the investor is located in zone "B".
9.        Assistance to Exporters.  To enhance the competitiveness of Israeli
exports in the world markets, the Government grants refunds of indirect taxes
and charges as follows:
% of Value Added          Refund of Indirect Taxes
(in foreign currency)          (IS per US$ FOB)
0 - 25
26 - 35                        1.08
36 - 45                        1.14
46 - 55                        1.20
56 - 65                        1.26
66 +                           1.30
Moreover, exporting firms receive 100% refund of customs duties, purchase tax
and other fees on raw materials or intermediary products, except for the 15%
defense levy. Firms exporting at least 25% of total sales are partly exempted
from property tax on equipment and inventory. The exemption relates to the
percentage of sales exported and ranges from 15% to 80%. The Government par-
ticipates up to 50% of the fob value of exports in transshipment costs incur-
red and extends travel tax exemption to manufacturing firms exporting at least
US$100,000 a year (US$250,000 for general export firms). The Government also
covers commercial risks of exports up to 85% and political risk losses up to
95%. Premia are partially refunded, the extent of refund increasing in pro-
portion of the exports to total sales. New exporters may benefit from an
lb 6,000 grant for the promotion of exports. Loans are available from the
Export Promotion Financing Fund and may go up to 75% of the export expenses.
They are extended at 6% for up to 2 years. Other governmental assistance for
exports includes special subsidies to the textile industry and budgetary sup-
port to equAlization funds for wool and synthetic textiles, plywood and leather.
10.       Finally, approved export projects are also entitled to:
a.   financing of 100% of the imported components of export products;
b.   financing of 100% of raw materials purchased in Israel;
c.   financing of 100% of short-term export credit granted by the
exporter.



Page ,
11.       According to the Law for the Encouragement of Industry (1969),
industrial enterprises (except those with an approved or recognized status)
may pay 15% income tax (instead of 30%) if they elect to reinvest their pro-
fits. Also under this Law, an enterprise is entitled to accelerated deprecia-
tion on locally produced machinery and equipment over four years (40% on the
first year and 20% in subsequent years) and on imported machinery and equip-
ment over six years (25% for the first and second years and 12.5% thereafter).
Approved/recognized enterprises have the option to choose the form of accele-
rated depreciation for which they may apply.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ISRAEL: Interest Rate Management and Its Implications
1.        The prevailing interest rate structure does not reflect actual mar-
ket conditions. With the country's financial resources centrally controlled,
the Government plays a major role in the distribution of funds which, in turn,
gives it a powerful influence over the direction of private investment. In-
dustrial enterprises perforce have become dependent on concessionary funding
(to the tune of 58% of their investment costs), channelled through financial
institutions under Government directives. As a result, interest rates perform
neither an intra-industry nor an inter-industry allocative function. This
does not imply that project selection has suffered and that costs and bene-
fits to the economy of the directed investments have been ignored. Industrial
projects are approved after careful evaluation by the Investment Center for
their conformity with the national Industrial Plan. Such an approval is a
precondition for the enterprise to receive development loans and the other
incentives the Center administers. Furthermore, industrial projects are
appraised for their financial and economic viability, the latter assessed
by calculating the cost to the economy of the foreign exchange earned or
saved and comparing it with the effective exchange rate. Thus, the subsidy
provided by the low interest rate is not indiscriminate, in that the loans
are granted only for investment in industries the Government desires to pro-
mote. On, the other hand, the indexing of principal and interest on savings
and Government bonds appears to have contributed significantly to the re-
source mobilization effort of the Government.
2.        Low interest rates, particularly for loans to less developed re-
gions at 8% and 10%, are part of the Government's incentives package to in-
crease the attractiveness and thus bring forth the large volume of industrial
investment necessary to achieve its developmental objectives (see para 2.10).
In addition, low interest rates create a bias in favor of capital-intensive
techniques, which embody modern technology, help alleviate the chronic prob-
lem of labor shortage, increase productivity and enhance the competitiveness
of projects. Finally, the incentives, including the low interest rate, off-
set in part the relatively high taxes Israeli firms have to pay.
3.        The prevailing 12% lending rate under present rates of inflation
(40% in 1974) certainly results in a negative real interest rate. Also, it
is out of line with returns on savings (4% with principal and interest linked
to the cost of living index) and time deposits which yield 14-15% (unlinked).
But current unprecedented inflation rates, a worldwide phenomenon, make it
hard to determine future trends of real long-term interest rates. The annual
average price increase in Israel from 1955 to 1972 was 6%, while from 1965 to
1970 only 4%. It was only in 1973 and 1974 that prices in Israel rose sharply
- due in part to world inflation and in part to Israel's emergency situation.
Given the historical price behavior and the fact that the Government has
taken stern measures to curb inflation (see para. 2.04), it is reasonable
to expect that the recent price increases will not be a long-term feature
of the Israeli economy and that in the long run a lending rate of 12% will
lead to a positive real interest rate. Furthermore, the recent Government



ANNEX 2
Page 2
decision that, in loans to Area "C" (12% lending rate), cost of living in-
creases in excess of 20% will be added to the principal, safeguards against
excessive subsidization and forces borrowers to pay a more realistic price
for the funds they use. Also, in the long haul, a 12% on-lending rate should
cover the exchange risk on foreign borrowings (borne by the Government. 1/
4.        Subsidization of lending rates could conceivably be avoided by
indexing industrial loans, 2/ a system which the Israelis had applied in the
past. However, their experience was not satisfactory and the system was
dismantled in 1963 due to serious administrative and economic disruptions. 3/
A more overriding reason was the Government's concern that indexing of indus-
trial loans, by ushering in an uncertainty as to the actual future cost of
capital, would adversely affect industrial investment. Similarly, the Gov-
ernment is unwilling to pass on to the borrower the foreign exchange risk
on grounds that this may also have a dampening effect on industrial invest-
ment.
1/   In return for assuming the foreign exchange risk, the Government allows
a bank a spread of only 1-3/4%, the excess being paid to the Government.
2/   It is noteworthy that a recent Bank paper concluded that "the review
leads to a similar agnosticism on the effects of indexing on the volume
of saving, efficiency of investment allocation and the operation of
financial institutions." Index-Linking of Financial Contracts: A
Survey of the State-of-the-Arts, Bank Staff Working Paper No. 192,
November 1974.
3/   From the mid-1950's until 1963, most loans extended by the financial
institutions were linked to the U.S. dollar or the consumer price index.
After the 1962 devaluation, the linking of new loans to the dollar was
discontinued, while for a large part of the existing loans the dollar
linkage was converted into a cost of living index link. Concerning loans
to industry (and agriculture), in December 1963 borrowers were given the
option between linking the loans to the consumer price index and paying
an annual premium of 4% over and above the normal interest of some 8%
per annum, thus bringing the effective interest rate to 12%. The major-
ity of borrowers chose unlinked loans, expecting that the index would
rise in excess of the premiums. (IDBI effectively discontinued linking
loans since 1964). In 1967, the lending rate was reduced from 12% to
9% (6.5% and 8% for Areas "A" and "B", respectively) to stimulate indus-
trial investment. Loans to the housing and construction sectors also
have ceased to be linked to the cost of living index.



Pae3
5.        In light of Israel's singular circumstances as discussed in paras
2.12-2.14 and Annex 2, paras 1-4, and for the purpose of the proposed indus-
trial development project, the interest rate management by the Government
appears to be appropriate. The recent changes in the interest rate structure
and partial indexing (paras 2.12, 2.14) indicate that the Government keeps
the interest rate question under review.



ANNEX 3
INIJSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Shareholders as of October 31. 129
% of
Amount            Total
Ordinary "A" (Voting) Shares                                 (I  '000)
Government
The State of Israel                                       3,925    3,925    26.00
Israeli Private Investors
Hevra Lehashkaot Shel  Israel Discount Bank Ltd.            250
Otzar Letaasiya B.M.                                      1,050
Investment Fund of Hevrat Haovdim Ltd.                    1,560
Hevra Lerishumim Shel Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M.           1,800
Israel Discount Bank Limited                              1,405
Israel American Industrial Development Bank Ltd.          1,060
Workers Bank Trust Co., Ltd.                              1,000
Clal Israel Investment Co., Ltd.                            250
Hevra Lehashkaot Shel Export Bank Limited                   250
Israel Industrial Bank Limited                              250
The Israel Central Trade & Investment Co., Ltd.             250
The Weizman Institute of Science                            250
Manufacturers Association of Israel                         250
Hevra Lerishumim Shel Israel Discount Bank Ltd.             130
Other Shareholders                                           20    9,775    64.73
Foreign Investors
Israel Investors Corporation                                500
Edith & Isaac Wolfson Charitable Trust                      250
Artina Trading Trust (reg) Vaduz                            150
P.E.C. Israel Economic Corporation                          250
The Eli Wishnick Foundation                                 250    1,400      9.27
15,100   100.00
Shares Other than Ordinary "A"l Shares
Groups of Shareholders
Private
Government     Domestic      Foreign      Mixed       Total
---     -______________---(IL  OO)-----------_
Preferred Ordinary            -           1,551          -         8,449       10,000
Ordinary B                 134,900         -             -          -         134,900
Preference A                50,500         -             -          -          50,500
Preference B                   611         -              892      1,350        2,853
Preference C                  -             360        14,366     15,874       30,600
Preference CC                 -                7       15,437     14,556       30,000
Preference CC1                -             -           7,752     44,291       52,o43
Preference D                 3,707          188        41,392      3,756       49,o43
Total        189,718         2,106       79,839      88,276     359,939
Percentage of Total           52.71       0.58           22.18     24.53        100.00
j  Entities owned jointly by domestic and foreign shareholders.
Source: Industri.ii Levelopment Bank of' isrne. Ltd.
November 197h



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Board of Directors and Committees as of October 31, 1974
(A) Members of the Board of Directors
Name                                   Affiliation
Chairman
1. Dr. ZVI DINSTEIN 2                    Government Advisor on Petroleum and Energy
Vice-Chairmen
2.  M.B. GITTER                          Member, Board of Directors of Israel
Discount Bank Limited
3.  ERNEST ISRAEL M. JAPHET              Managing Director, Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M.
4. MOSHE OLENIK                          Joint Managing Director- Bank Hapoalim B.M.
5. MORDECHAI ZAGAGI                      Director of Companies
Other Members Representing the State of Israel          -     12
Other Members Representing Private Israeli Investors  -       28
Members Representing Foreign Investors                  -      5
Total membership  = 50
Theoretical Membership
(A holder or holders of 250 Ordinary "A" shares is entitled
to appoint a Director).
Entitled to             Actual
Appoint            Appointment
State of Israel                       15                    14
Private Israeli Investors             39                    31
Foreign Investors                      5                     5
Total         59                    50
j Represents the State of Israel
/ Represents private Israeli investors
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
March 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(B)  Powers and Duties, Chairmen, and Members of Committees
Executive Committee            Vice-Chairmen             Loan Committee
-Committee                _
All powers of the Board,       Major administration      Reviews and decides on
except to elect the            and personnel matters    loan applications up
Chairman and Vice-Chair-       and a sounding board      to cumulative total of
Powers and     men of the Board and to         for policy matters        IL1,000,000 for individ-
Duties       appoint the General            likely to prove con-       ual projects.
Manager(s).  Reviews and       troversial.
decides on loan applica-
tions beyond the authority
of the Loan Committee
The Board Chairman or, in      The Board Chairman or,   Both General Managers
Chairman       his absence, the Executive    in his absence, the
Vice-Chairman.                 Executive Vice-Chairman
18 Board Members or their      The Board Chairman, the  1b Board members or their
Members        alternates.                     Vice Chairmen and the    alternates.
General Managers.
Frequency      Twice a month.                  Once a month, or as       Once a week.
of meetings                                    necessary.
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
March 1975



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LTD.
ORGANIZATION AND STAFF CHART
As of March 1, 1975
| EX(ECU/TIVE COMMITTEE                                                                           Z. |m-iIA1.SASC  SCT A
fill                                           D.                                                 Sfd
X  < _            _          -       i    JOIT GENERAL  ANAGER  |                        | OINT G NERLMMANAGERE
GEN RA  MAAE                                                  MOBILIZATION OF                                                                 CINTRNA
&, GENERAL COUNSEL    _FUNDS RESOURCES                                                                                                CONTROLLER
rM. Rollnberg    __                                            ID~ H.miW.olrf
ASSISTANT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~DEATEN                                                                             ee
MASSSATAS.MNAGER                                                ECNETRAL                                      ASST. MA.NAGER                     LASST. VMANAGER
INVESTMENT CO   MANAGER   _     (LOANSI             |   SECRETARY                     _                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(ACCOUNTANCY)             (IFNANCE)                             
141B   B. T-vick                    F. 8ronholc     1   1       A. Elias                                         s. Fl-min                                g E. Nn            ffs
11ofIsIi1nul sIaf I                              World Eeok-96 1
f   MGATON    1            EAS&       1 |        TEXT] LES a                  TC                     LEI A                  ACCOUNTANCY  1           <EET ll COLLECTION                                                     FOLLOVV-U 
LOAS DET                                              CA|  DIV                                                                                        Y       pT       2f} | L lm ..  |    S. F--moi.h                         G, A,WyT
I                            r ~~~~~~~~RESEARCS                 
STATISTIC                           SERTRA                                                           Stf
16(21   l                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prof-si-nls   89
|                                                                                                              ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Olh-r  67
T-tl         159
7(7)                                                  Fi:gur: indi.... -uber of -tff -em-,r
pro...slo-a -tfC                                 Word Bank 9764



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
IDBI's Subsidiaries
1.        IDBI and the Government each own 50% of the share capital of the
Investment Company for Industrial Development in Israel Ltd. (IC). IC in
turn owns all the share capital of four companies. One of those, the Indus-
trial Finance Corporation Ltd. (IFC), owns 100% of the share capital of yet
another company. These subsidiaries are described in what follows:
Investment Company for Industrial Development in Israel Limited
2.        The IC was established in 1963 to take over most of the equity
investment activity of IDBI. This move was to enable IDBI to remain exempt
from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's "investment company"
classification and thus avoid substantial restrictions on its efforts to
raise funds in the U.S. capital market. Initially 75% of IC's share capital
was held by IDBI with the Government holding the remaining 25%. In its first
years IC limited its activities to rescue operations of IDBI's clients in
trouble.
3.        Following a 1972 agreement, IC's share capital was increased from
IL 20 million to IL 30 million and the Government became an equal owner withi
IDBI. In return, the Government-owned IFC (see paragraphs 5-9 below) became
a wholly-owned subsidiary of IC. Under this new arrangement IFC took over the
equity investment role of IC and IC became only a dormant holding company.
Deco Investment Company Limited
Hevra Clalit le-Neyarot Erech B.M.
Pituach Veneemanuth B.M.
4.        These three companies, wholly-owned by IC, were established at the
Government's request to help maintain stable markets in various types of
bonds and stocks through trading activities. Only Deco is active now, though
it no longer is concerned with maintaining a stable market. It invests its
own capital (IL 6 million) in securities in order to make a profit. The other
two companies have not been dissolved as IDBI feels there may be a use for
them in the future.  In the meantime their equity capital (IL 20,000 for
Clalit and IL 4.5 million for Pituach) has been lent back to IC.
Industrial Finance Corporation Limited
5.        As noted above, the IFC, wholly-owned by IC, is now the entity in
the IDBI group which is active in equity investments. It also makes loans,
including loans for working capital. In general it confines its activities
to companies experiencing financial or management problems.



A hNN E X 6
Page 2
6.        Since its inception in 1968, IFC has approved 152 projects involving
equity investments of IL 17.9 million and loans of IL 56.2 million. On June
30, 1974, its outstanding equity portfolio totalled IL 5.3 million and its
outstanding loan portfolio, IL 20.4 million (excluding its investment in its
subsidiary -- see below -- and net of provisions for losses). Of the 64 com-
panies involved, 43 were located in the central area of Israel, roughly cor-
responding to Area C. Thirty companies had received less than IL 100,000 from
IFC.
7.        IFC's involvement with its clients includes managerial as well as
financial assistance. It will, for example, assist a client to find and hire
suitable people to strengthen management. It keeps a close watch on all its
clients and has had to wind up only three companies since it began operations
(all fully covered by loss provisions).
8.        IFC pays no dividends, reinvesting its profits in its business.  Be-
sides its share capital of IL 16.0 million, it has retained earnings of IL
3.4 million, a loan without term of IL 43.6 million from the Government and
long-term loans from IDBI (Il 10.2 million), IC (IL 1.3 million), the Govern-
ment (IL 2.5 million) and the Negev University (IL 1.0 million).
9.        IFC's project pipeline will fully commit its available resources.
Because its activities consist basically of rescue operations, it cannot
forecast its resource needs with any great accuracy. However, it estimates
that it will need some IL 20-30 million of new resources to cover its opera-
tions over the next two years (1975-1976). It is exploring with IDBI and the
Government how these funds might be made available (one thought is an increase
in IC's share capital, with IC lending the funds down to IFC).
Plant and Machinery for Industry Limited
10.       This company (PMI) was established in 1969 as a wholly-owned subsi-
diary of IFC to acquire equipment for rental at subsidized rates to enterprises
operating for the defense authorities. This reflected the Government's desire
to channel more defense related jobs into the private sector. On June 30,
1974, IFC had invested IL 20,000 in PMI's share capital and had lent PMI IL
31.4 million from its own resources. Under a contract between IFC and the
Government, entered into before IFC became an IC subsidiary, these funds were
provided by the Government and are on lent to PMI at no profit to IFC. Future
funding will not come from the Government but through IDBI as well as IFC; IL
20 million loan has been agreed to, of which IL 10.2 million has already been
made available to PMI.
11.       PMI operates at no profit, with the Government covering any losses.
If an enterprise assisted by PMI is no longer needed and wound up, the Govern-
ment will take over the rental contract. The Government determines what enter-
prises are to be established and assisted by PMI, providing the funds needed.



ANNEX 7
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Computer System
"Early Warning" System
1.        The "early warning" system has been in operation since late 1973.
It is based on the three most recent audited financial statements and computes
six financial ratios which are weighted to give a risk index. These ratios
and their weights are:
Ratio                                          Weight
Equity capital and reserves/total assets                    25
Profit trend for the last three years                       25
Current ratio                                               20
Inventory/production value                                  10
Receivables/sales                                           10
Net working capital/production value                        10
100
The last three ratios are computed as differences from the average for the
industry involved as different standards may apply to different industries.
2.        Some 850 of IDBI's clients are covered by this system.  IDBI's ex-
perience indicates that the system is able to identify about half of the prob-
lem projects, while rarely falsely labeling a sound project as having problems.
The make-up of the risk index, especially the weights assigned the ratios, is
under review in an attempt to improve its predictive powers. Despite its im-
perfections, this system is extremely helpful in allowing the small staff to
follow-up on a very large number of clients.
Information System
3.        IDBI has completed the preparatory work for a comprehensive informa-
tion system which will enable it to obtain information on all aspects of its
own operations, to follow up project implementation, and to review the per-
formance of its clients. IDBI is also developing a system which would enable
it to computerize its appraisal work and make possible forecast based on
different values of parameters, including sensitivity analysis. A research
and statistics unit has been established and a qualified statistician has
been hired to head the unit.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Loan Operations
1.        A summary of IDBI's loan operations is shown in Table 1 and the
sectoral distribution of outstanding loans is shown in Table 2. IDBI's loan
portfolio is quite diversified with textile works accounting for the largest
concentration (18%) followed by chemicals and oil products (11%) and metal
products (8%). About 5% of IDBI's outstanding loans have been made to the
construction sector (construction firms and construction in industrial estates
for small-scale industry and for science-based industry, etc.). The analysis
of loans approved (Table 3) also indicates that IDBI has not concentrated its
efforts on any particular industrial sector; in no year did approvals to any
one of the seven branches delineated in Table 3 exceed 28% of total approvals.
2.        The average size of IDBI's loans has been increasing over the years,
reflecting a shift towards larger-scale plants and higher capital intensity
due to the adoption of increasingly more sophisticated techniques. During
1973 the average size of loans approved was IL 1.15 million compared to
IL 480,000 during the period 1958-1968. However, the smaller borrower has
not been neglected; over 60% of the number of loans approved in 1973 were
for amounts of IL 500,000 or less (80% for 1958-1968).
3.        The repayment period of IDBI's loans has been getting shorter in
recent years. Whereas during 1958-68 maturities of 6-8 years accounted for
22% and those of 9-13 years for 53% of the amount of loans approved, during
1969-74 the percentages were 48% and 30%, respectively. This trend reflects
two factors. In recent years IDBI has been borrowing on shorter terms, and
has reduced its lending terms to keep the two in line. Also, IDBI has accept-
ed the suggestion of the Government that the repayment period of its loans
should reflect the accelerated depreciation allowed approved projects under
the incentive law. Loans carrying 15-20 year terms (including five years of
grace) are made only to industrial estates specializing in science-based in-
dustries. The recent trend to shorter maturities is likely to be reversed
again since IDBI's pipeline contains a number of major projects of long ges-
tation period which will require longer loan maturities.
4.        IDBI classifies its loans by purpose into four categories:  new
projects, expansions, completions and miscellaneous. During 1973 the distri-
bution of the number of approved loans between these categories was 20%, 47%,
22% and 11% respectively. The first two categories are self-explanatory. In
recent years more expansion projects have come forward than new ones, reflect-
ing investors' efforts to consolidate and/or enlarge existing plants and to
replace equipment. The third category, completions, reflects IDBI's practice
of intentionally not attempting to take inflation totally into account when
estimating the cost of projects. Given the recent high level of inflation
in Israel and the world, IDBI feels that it is too difficult to do this with



ANNEX 8
Page 2
any precision. Instead, IDBI covers cost over-runs with a second loan. These
completion loans, therefore, represent loans to both new and expansion proj-
ects. Included in the miscellaneous category are loans for such projects as
a standby generator for the Eilat City ice plant, ecological equipment for
cement mills, and other operations which cannot be classified in one of the
other three categories.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Summary of Loan Operations 1968 - June 30, 1974
(IL Millions)
Jan.-June
1968            1969            1970             1971            1972             1973            1974
No.  Amount   No.  Amount    No.  Amount    No.  Amount    No.   Amount    No.  Amount    No.  AmQunt
Applications approved            279    164h8    258    278.3   309    200.6   386*   457,5*   406*   385.6*   392*   450.6*   166*   286.9*
Contracts signed for loans       313    175.3   311    257.3   243    197.7   379    267.8    419    366.1    344   141.9    172    269.4
Amount          Amount          Amount           Amount          Amount           Amount          Amount
Disbursements                            128.3           206.4           244.5            331.2           431.0            401.3           194.3
Undisbursed at the end of
the period                             175.3            230.1           244.6            405.6           429.3            458.7           617.2
Repayments (excluding
linkage increments)                     65.5             87.2            98.4            10104           135.0            166.7           100.2
Outstanding at the end of the
year (excluding linkage
increments)                           648.o            767.6           913.7          1,11435         1,1439.5         1,674.1         1,768.2
*/Not including deposits with Israel Agricultural Bank Ltd. and Yaad Agricultural
Bank Ltd., earmarked for loanq to various agricultural Settlements, as follows:
1971  -  IL 17,3 million
1972  -  IL 15.4
1973  -  IL  6,9
1974  -  IL  7.7
Source:  Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.                                                                                                  D z
November 1974                                                                                                                                         - X



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Summary of Loans Outstanding by Industrial Sector
(IL '000)
December 31,             June 30,
1972            1973            1974
Lime and stone quarries                   62,799          97,572         107,537
Food products                             96,907         112,916         119,538
Textiles works                           287,953         357,248         357,966
Garments manufacturing                    13,456          15,481          15,517
Wood products and furniture               26,103          29,066          29,361
Paper and paper products                  21,095          19,314          28,027
Printing and publishing                   15,653          14,735          15,438
Leather and leather products               5,229           7,250           7,802
Rubber and Plastics                       84,775          99,088          96,391
Chemicals and oil products               196,789         213,468         221,650
Non-metallic mineral products             24,163          20,131          28,746
Basic metal industries                    51,080          56,233          55,614
Metal products                           141,910         156,678         165,768
Machinery                                 11,981          11,429          10,107
Electric and Electronic equipment         49,005          65,775          74,858
Transportation vehicles manufacturing      4,715           4,247           3,991
Glass, Ceramics pottery and Bricks        24,983          27,870          28,976
Public Utilities - Electric Company      126,169         146,378         140,925
Other Utilities                           60,051          67,756          76,317
Aircraft industries                       56,176          54,697          53,935
Industrial constructions                  67,117          96,206         108,835
Various other loans                       93,971         108,435         114,094
Cut and raw diamonds                         166              152            142
Deposits with local banks for
granting of loans                       70,976          91,546          97,915
Debt of Government to the Bank
for linkage increments on loans          8,290            -
1,601,512       1,873,671      1,959,450
Provision for doubtful debts              10,800          15,200          15,587
Balance of loans as per
per Balance Sheet                 1,590,712       1,858,471       1,943,863
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
November 1974



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
AiaLysis of L.ApDved
LE P-iliion)
Jan.-June           Curmlative
15/58 -1968            1969               1970               1971                1972              1973               1974           1958-June 30, 1974
No.  Amoun         No.  Amount        No.  Amount        No.  Amount        No.  Amount        No.  Amount        No.   Amount       No.5  Amount
A.  industrial Branch
Paper and printing                                  116     51.0       13      10.7       10        5.7      24       11.6      19        6.4      25      16.4       11       15.5      217      116.7
Non-metallic minerals                               188    127.7       13        9.7      19        9.5      28       80.5      32       22.4      40       71.6       8       25.4       328     346 8
Food and tobacco                                    386    134.2       36      26.1       36      19.1       61       28.8      70       53.8      52      39.1       23       27.5      663      327.9
ChemicaJs and rubber                                243    145.5       28      83.1       30       32.3      41       88.1      62       39.4      49      47.6       26       75.6      480      506.6
Metals                                              457    170.2       60      66.7       88      51.9       79      109.6      96      107.6      90      79.2       41       33.6      912      618.8
Textiles and leather                               430    300.7        49      33.0       51      53.3       47       71.3      68       75.7      60      92.3       22       37.8      727      664.1
Miscellaneous                                       490    179.3       59      49.0       75       28.8     1o6       67.6      59       80.3      76     109.4       35       71.5       896    j85.3
TOTAL                 2,310  1,10i8,6    -          78.3     3b       203       366        77        0        3       357  392 Z         T36          -       22       166_2
B. Geographical Location
Galilee                                             248    126.5       36       16.2      35       19.6      49       26.2      57       39,2      46      36.5       20       13.6       491     277.9
Valleys                                             239     90.0       22       14.3      28       12.1      23       48.2       24      37.7      25       37.1       7       22.8      368      262.2
Jerusalem                                           158     51,8       19      30.1       23       14.9      39       72.3      33       20.0      33      38.6       16       31.7       321     259.4
North Negev                                         191     93.2       16      23.8       12       17.1      18       14.0      31       21.3      30      53.3        9       16.5      308      239.4
South Negev                                         208    171.5       26      83.2       24       32.7      26       44,6       48      45.1      41       77.3      22                  394     502.2
Development Area      1,041      3.       11       16.       12        96.s     T-77 633                              19        4.                133.0     1,2 1,11
Sharon                                              278     69.4       32       24.5      23       15.4      43       22.5       48      27.3      46       33.3      30       36.5       501     228.9
Haifa                                               251    190.4       20       26.1      32       15.8      44       61.1       39      86.8      37       38.8      19       55.6       440     473.7
Shomron                                             165     74.7       20       17.2      22        8.7      24       33.4      22       22.1      20       30.7      11       12.8      284      199.6
Tel-Aviv Yaflo                                      312    113.5       38      17.8       46       11.5      55       27.3      53       24.2      47       35.6      14       18.6      564      24u.5
The South                                          260    127.6        29      25.1       64       52.8      65      107.9      ,1       61.8      67      69.2       18       30.4      552      474.4
Out of Development Area    1,266        7        T39      110.7      T 7         7      2-1     292.2         m    222.3       I      2 207.6            193.9    2,341
TOTAL                 2,310  110 8.6      258      278.3     309      200.6      386     457.5      406      385.6    392      450.6      166     286.9    4223        166.2
C. Size
Up to 50,000                                        532     15.7       21       o.8       23        0.9      40        1.4       29       o.8      26        0.8       5        0.2      674       20.6
50,001  -    100,000                           404      31.3       24       1.9       52       4.2       41        3.2      48        3.6      49       3.9       12       0.8       631       49.3
100,001  -    250,000                           565      96.8       71      13.6       75      12.3       90       15.4     105       17.7      83       14.0      33        5.7    1,023      175.4
250,001  -    500,000                            357    133.0       66      23.8       70       25.5      91       33.2      84       30.5      86      32.4       30       10.7      783      268.7
500,001  -  1,000,000                            220    163.1       28      19.8       45      33.5       56       42.1      58       40.9      52      37.2       29       20.1      486      354.9
1,000,001  -  3,000,000                              )        )        )         )       37      60.5       40       71.3      60      1oo.6      63     103.8       31       58.3
3,000,001  -  5,000,000                              )         )       )          )       2        7.4       8       29.4      11       41.4      14      50.2       10       40.1
5,000,001  - 10,000,000                          232)   668.7)       48)    218.4)        2       17.1      16      120.6        6      40.5       9       66.1      12       93.8     626)  2,277.3)
10,000,001  - 15,000,000                              )         )       )          )       2       20.6       -          -        1      14I.1      8       98.8       3       41.0         )          )
15,000,001 and above                                  )           )                )       1       18.6       4      140.9        4      95.5       2       43.4       1       16.2         )          )
TOTAL                                   n_7               g     7     23        36    ¶75                        6       2     450.6                          7      3,66922
D. Repayment Term (year)
1 - 5                                               207     65.1       44       21.9     113       38.8     103       72.7       97      49.9    115        46.7       40      21.0       716      315.6
6 - 8                                             1,093    244.5      119       60.7     132       89.5     219      189,5      260     195.5    240       263.1      106     197.4    2,167   1,239.0
9 - 13                                              896    589.5       88      119.4      63       69.9       59     180.0       42      106.0     31       85.0 1    18       56.8    1,198   1,206.5
14 --20                                              114    209.5        7       76.3        1       2.4        5      15.2        7       34.2      6       55. J    2         11.7       142      405,1
TOTAL                 2,310  1108.6                278.       309     200.6      3         777                         9 2    m i    __                9      2      3,16.2
1/  One loan, for It 27 million, was granted for 25 years for an industrial estate project.
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel
November, 1974



ANNEX 9
ISRAEL: Sources of Finance for Industrial Fixed Investment   /
(IL million - Current Prices)
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1969-73         %
Gross Fixed Investment            671     822   1,059   1,358   1,535        5,445       100
Sources of Finance
IDBI                              207     2h5      331     h31      401      1,615       30
Other Financial
Institutions                     28      28       80     255      241       632        11
Pension Funds                      63      92       86      135     149        525        10
Subtotal Development Loans    298       365      497     821      791     2,772        51
Grants                             33       56      80       89     126        384         7
Suppliers' Credit   /             100     120      100      100     100        520        10
Others (mainly self-finance
and direct foreign
investment)                     240     281      382     348      518     1,769        32
671     822   1,059   1,358   1,535       5,4h5       100
J Including mining
j Estimate
KEMENA/IC & DFC Division
February 1975



ANNEX 10
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Resources Position as of September 30, 1974
(IL Million)
Amount          Percent of Total
Share capital                               375.0                   16
Reserves and surplus                         128.9                   5
Perpetual deposit/i                          467.0                  10
Capital notes/2                               71.4                   3
Long-term  debt:  local currency             323.0                  14
foreign currency          995.0                  42
Total resources                      2,360.3                 100
Loans outstanding          2,009.2
Equity investments in
subsidiaries                 15.1
Other equity investments       4.5        2,028.8                   86
Available for disbursement             331.5                  14
Undisbursed commitments                347.8                  15
Available for commitments              (16.3                  (1)
/1   Includes IL 98 million to be received from the Israel Treasury by
March 31, 1975.
/2   Includes the equivalent of US$16 million expected to be received by
December 31, 1975 out of US$50 million to be sold in the U.S. This issue
was registered in July 1974; by March 31, 1975 about US$7 million had been
sold.
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
December 1974



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Loan Portfolio Analysis as of June 30, 1974
(IL Millions)
Percent    Amounts Guar-
Amounts Outstanding      of Total    anteed by Gov.  Percent
Principal   Interest   Total   Portfolio   or others         Guaranteed
Total Portfolio (before provision)       1,907.4       52.1  1,959.5     100.0         815.2             41.6
Amount in Arrears        Percent of Total
Loans Affected by Arrears                                                                                           Principal   Interest   Total  Portfolio
Loans in court                         47.2        9.6     56.8       2.9          44.8             78.9          47.2       9.6       56.8        2.9
Other loans in default
Up to 3 months                      15.6        1.1     16.7       0.9           6.7             40.1           0.4       1.1         1.5       0.1
3 - 6 months                       12.4         0.3     12.7       o.6            0.1             0.8           0.9       0.3         1.2       0.1
6 - 12 months                      79.2         4.0     83.2       4.2           75.6            90.9           2.3       4.0         6.3       0.3
over 12 months                      6.9         0.9      708       0.4            4.8            61.5           1.9       0.9         2.8       O.1
Sub-Total        11401        6.3    120.4        6.1           87.2            72.4          5.5        6.3       11.8        o.6
Total loans affected by arrears   161.3        15.9    177.2        9.0         132.0             74.5         52.7      15.9        68.6       3.5
z
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
January 1975



ANNEX 11
Appendix
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Note on Arrears
1.        Of the loans affected by arrears (IL 177.2 million), almost one-
third (IL 56.8 million) are being liquidated by court action. There are 50
senarate companies involved, of which 35 have already been liquidated but are
awaiting final court action. Of the remaining loans in default (IL 120.4
million) one loan of IL 64.8 to Arad Chemical Industries Ltd. accounts for
over half of the amount. This is a Government-sponsored project to produce
phosphoric acid using hydrochloric acid produced from Dead Sea water. The
process adopted for the production of hydrochloric acid is a new one and has
experienced technical difficulties; the company is deciding whether to press
forward and solve these difficulties or invest additional funds to convert
to a different, tested process. None of IDBI's funds are at risk in this
project.
2.        The second largest loan affected by arrears totals IL 7.5 million
and is to a textile plant. There are several textile plants in default,
accounting for IL 26.1 million of the total, and all suffer to a greater or
lesser extent from the same worldwide problems: increases in raw material
prices combined with falling sales prices.



ANNEX 12
INDUSTRIAL DiVEIOPMER  BANK OF ISPLAEL I1141TED
Income Statements
(IL million)
Jan-Sept.
1970      1971      1972       1973        197b
INCOME                                      ------------(auditedT ----               (unauditedl)
Interest from loans and deposits          88.0      110.5     137.2      166.4        141.8
Interest-from security investments         0.6        1.3       1.1       2.0           1.3
Dividends                                  1.2        1.7       1.6        1.5          0.2
Commission and other income                2.8        4.0       6.1        5.0          b.5
Recoveries in respect of insurance
of exchange differences and linkage
incremenrnF on interest on Bank's
liabilities                              0.7        3.3       6.8       8.8           7.9
93.3     120.6      152.6     183.7         155.7
SXPENSKS
Interest expense                          35.7       55.9      82.6      102.9        68.2
Administrative and general expenses        3.9        4.5       5.3        7.4         6.6
Contribution to Immigrants
Absorption Fund                           -          -        0.8       0.8          -
Depreciation                               0.3        0.1       0.1        0.2         0.2
Amortization of debentures and
bond issue expenses                      0.5         -          .         -          -
Provision for doubtful debts               1.2        1.4       1.5       4-9          1.5
11.6      61.9      90.3      116.2        96.5
Operating earnings                        51.7       58.9      62.5      67-5         59.2
Capital gains (loss)                       1.0        0.6       1.3        L.3         3.2
Participation of the Israel Treasury
in linkage increments on dividends       3.3        6.3       8.6        8.9         6.1
56.o      65.8      72.4       80.7        68.5
Provision for taxes                       29.5       3         3805       [4.3        39.1
Net earnings                     26.5      30.8       33.9      36.4         29.l
APPROPRIATION OF NET EARNINGS
Dividends (net)                            18.7      20.2      22.6       22.1L       1C.2
Provision for dimunution
in value of investments                 (1-4)       1.7       0.9        3.1        (2.0)
Reserve for future capital redemption      1 .h       1.3       1.4        1.4
General reserve                            3.0        3-5       4.0        6.0o
Special reserve                            3.6        4.0       5.0        6.4         -
Unappropriated profit                      0.1        0.1        -         0,1        21.2
Debenture issue expense written off        1.1         -        _           -          -
Net earnings                     26.5      30.8       33.9      36.4         29.L
-----as percentage of average total assets--7-
Income                                     8.5        8.7       8.8        9.0         9.2
Interest e",onsP                            3.2       4.0       4.e        °.0         5.2
Gross spread                4        -               t7    4 -T         4-°            7
Administrative and general expenses        0.4        0.3       0.3        0.4         O.),
Other expenses                             0.2        0.1       0.1        0.          0.1
Operating earnings                            .7      273   43T                  3.3
Other income                               0.4        °.5       D.6        o.6         0.5
Gross earnings                             '5.1 4.9   ±8       *T2         T7          fl-
Provision for taxes                        2.7       2.*5       2.2        2.1         2.3
Net earnings                      2.1       2.3        2.0       1.8          1.7
-----…---------- Percentages ---------…--________
Net earnings/total share
capital (year end)                       7.0        8.2       9.0        9.7        10.5
Net earnings/adjusted share
capital (year end) 2]                   10.8       13.1      14.8       16.1        n.e.
Net earnings/net worth (year end)          5.9        6.7       7.3        7.6         7.8
Gross dividends/total share
capital (year end)                       6.6        7.1       8.0        8.0        n.a.
Payout ratio(net dividend/net earnings)  70.6        65.6      66.7       61.5        n.a.
1/ On annual basis
2/ 3accludes Government-owned Ordinary "B" and Preference "'All share and dividends thereon.
Source:  Indiistrial Development --r.k of Is-ael,, iA
January 1975



ANNEX 13
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Balance Sheets
(IL million)
December 31,                 Sept. 30
1970      1971      1972      1973        197
------------(audited)…---------         (unaudited)
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                         57.3      10.1      38.9       15.0        16.8
Receivables                               12.3      22.3      23.3       30.0        b5.0
Current assets                     69.6       32 X      62.2      45.0         61.8
Loans outstanding  j                   1,oo9.6   1,249.7   1,601.5   1,873.7         n.a.
Less:  provision for losses               (9.0)     lo.h)    (10.8)        15.2)     n.a.
Sub-total                       1,ooo.6   1,239.3   1,590.7   1,858.5       2,009.2
Equity investments in subsidiaries        14.8      14.8      15.1       15.1        15.1
Other equity investments                  15.4      16.2      12.0        7.8        n.a.
Less:  provision for losses               (3.1)     (4_.7)    (34h)      L           n.a.
Sub-total                           27.1      26.3      23.7      19.4         19.5
Receivable in connection with
sale of equity investment                 -         -         -          -
State of Israel bonds                     17.4      21.0      24.5       34.7        37.2
Long-term deposits with
Israel Treasury                         70.1     152.7     112.2      97.4         80.8
Receivable from Government on account
of exchange differences and linkage
increments on liabilities               12.1     101.4      90.6      118.0       137.4
Net fixed assets                           2/1                                        2/
Total                            1,196.9   1,573.1   1,903.9   2,173.0      2,349.3
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                        94.8      89.6     120.0      184.7       192.5
Special deposits for granting loans        77.0    102.7      121.8      132.1       133.2
Deferred taxes on income                    4.4       4.4       4.4         -         -
Long-term debt:
Secured by floating change              318.8    469.4    490.8        534.4       570.1
Unsecured                               252.3     320.9    545.1       560.0       580.6
Sub-total                         571.1      790.3   1,5.9   1,O94h4        1,150.7
5% Perpetual Deposit                         -      128.8     155.3      281.1       369.0
Share capital                             378.1     377.2     376.1      375.0       375.0
Reserves:
Share premiums                            7.5       7.5       7.5        7.5         7.5
Capital linkage funds                    31.9      31. 9     32.1       33.8         35.7
Gapital redemption reserve fund           3.0       4.0       5.1        6.2          6.2
Reserve for future capital redemption    1.4        1 .4      1.4        1.4         1.b
General reserve                          21.5      25.0      29.0       35.0         35.0
Special reserve                           5.6       9.6      14.6       21.0        21.0
Unappropriated profits                    o.6       0.7       0.7        0.8         22.1
Sub-total                           71.5      80.1      90.4      105.6        128.9
Total                            1,196.9   1,573.1   1,903.9   2,173.0       2,349.3
Contingent Liabilities
Long-term guarantees                       14.6      17.7     101.2       76.2         81.7
Documentary credits                         3.9      13.4        5.2      15.0         32.9
18.5      31.1     106.4      91.2        11L.6
1/ Includes accrued interest.
2/ Written down to nominal figure of IL 1.
Source:  Lndustrial Development 3anK of Israel, Ltd.
January 1975



ANNEX 1 4
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Analysis of Spread
(in percent)
6 months 1/
Income                         1970     1971      1972     1973      1974
Loan portfolio             8.7      8.9       8.9      9.0       9.2
Equity portolio 2/         6.1       7.5      8.1     15.2       5.5
Other assets               9.2      9.7       9.6      9.8      11.9
Average return
on assets                8.7      9.0       9.0      9.3       9.2
Expense
Equity Funds               7.9      8.2       8.5       8.6      9.0
Perpetual deposits          -       5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0
Long-term debt             5.9      6.2       6.7       7,0      7.1
Other liabilities          3.5      4.6       6.1      5.0       h.5
Average cost of
equity and liabilities  6.6       6.8       7.1      7.0       7.0
Spread                          2.1       2.2      1.9       2.3      2.2
1/ on annual basis
2/ including capital gains (losses)
Source: EMENA/IC .% DFC
December 1974



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Projections of Loan Operations - 1974-79
(IL million)
Years ending December 31,       1973       197h       1975      1976      1977      1978       1979
(actual)
Approvals                      457.5        800     1,250      1,540     1,750     2,070     2,383
Commitments                    401.9        520     1,160      1,440     1,640     1,910      2,270
Disbursements                  401.3        420        890     1,200     1,500     1,850      2,270
Note: It is expected that loans will be half in local
currency and half in foreign exchange.
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
January 1975



ANNEX 16
INDUSTRIAL DEVLOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Projected Cash Flow Statements - 1974-1979
(IL million)
Years Ending December 31,        1974        1975         1976        1977         1978        1979
SOURCES
Profit before taxes                       90.2       104.3        119.6       140.1        164.2       193.0
Non-cash changes                           4.5          9.3        13.3         16.2        19.2        21.1
Draw down of existing loans:
Domestic currencyl/                   121.1         6.2          1.0         0.7          0.7         0.7
Foreign currency                      139.8        77.2         15.6           -           -            -
Draw down of new idenijified loans:
Domestic currencyl'                    30.0       346.0        370.3       393.3        343.4       375.0
Foreign currency                       27.4       289.0        291.3       243.0        188.0          -
Draw down of new unidentified loans:
Foreign currency                         -          85.0       410.0       750.0      1,190.0     1,615.0
Collection of loans                      223.0       277.7        357.3       472.2        640.5       890.0
Increase in other liabilities             25.9          -            -           -           1.9         3.0
Decrease in other assets                    -          32.6          -            _ -                   -
Total                        661.9     1.227.3     1.578.4      2.015.      2,547.9      3,097.8
USES
Disbursement of loans                    420.0        890.0     1,200.0     1,500.0      1,85o.0     2,270.0
Repayment of loans:
Domestic         2/                    16.1        18.3         18.0        17.7         17.5        20.0
Foreign currency3/                    147.7       208.5        234.0       346.6        496.2       594.0
Payment of taxes                          42.4         50.8        60.1        72.5         86.0       104.5
Payment of dividends                      34.0         39.3        39.2         39.1        38.9         38.8
Increase in other assets                   1.7           -         20.4        37.6         59.3        70.5
Decrease in other liabilities               -          20.4         6.7          2.0          -            -
Total                        661.9     1,227.3     1,578.4      2,o5        2,547-9      3.097-8
-7Includes 5% perpetual deposits and specisl deposits.
2/Includes special deposits and share capital redemption; net of linking increments.
3/I'ncludes share capital redemption; net of exchange differences.
S.ource: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
January 1975



ANNEX 17
IN]DUSTRIAL DEVELUPM1N' BANK OF ISRAEL, LIMIITED
Projected statements ot Jncome - 197LI-1 979
(L Million)
Years ending December 31               1978      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979
IN                                                                         I                   8J
te terest from loans                           17L.2      217.6      287.5     376.2      883.1      606.8
Interest from security investments              13.9        9.5        7.2       6.7        6.6        8.3
Dividends                                        1.2        1.2        1.2       1.2        1.2        1.?
Other income                                    31.7       576         10        6,2 82.0             38.7
221.0     23LI6.9               l30.3     533.2      63.
EXPENSES
Interest expense                               111X.9     158.6     198.7      257.1      331.3    8,20.8
Administrative and general1
expenses                                      11.        13.7      15.3       16.9       18.c0
Depreciation                                      0.3       0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3        0.5
Provision for doubtful debts                     81.2       9.0       13.0       15.9      18.9       20.6
130.7                27.        290.2   ,     J ; 2.0
Profit before taxes                    90.2     1lt.3     119.6      140.1     168.2      193.0
Provision for taxes                               2.l      50.8       60.1       72.5      86.0      1 01'.
Net earnings                           !7.8       53.,       59.5      67.6       78.2      88.
APPROPRIATION OF NET EARNINGS
Dividends 7net)                                 31..0      39.3       39.2      39.1       38.9       38.8
91eserves                                       13.8       18.2       20.3      28.5       3           9
Net earnings                           87.8       53.5      59.5       67.6       78*5      88.9
- - - as percentage of average total assets - - - -
Income                                           9.0        9.-        9.b       9.-        y--        9-5
Interest expense                                 L.7        5.3        r.5       5.7        5.9        6.1
Gross sprend                                       T         7         7          7          7         7
Administrative and general
expenses                                       0.5        O.)        0.8       0.8        0.3        0.3
Other expenses                                   0.2        0.3        0.8       0.3        0O4 0.3
Profit before taxes                               7         7          373 3                7          7
Provision for taxes                               1,7       1.7        1.7        1.6       1.3        1.2
Net earnings                            1.9        1.8       1.6        1.5        1.,       1.3
-                    Percentages - - - - - - - - - - -
Net earnings/total share capital
(year end)                                   19.8       1L.3      16.0       18.3       21.3      28t.2
Net earnings/adjusted share
capital (year-end) 1/                        22.2       25.3      28.7       33.3       39.8      It5.3
Net eernings/net worth (year end)                 9.7      10.6       11.8       12.3      13.3       11,.0
Payout ratio (net dividends/net earnirgs)        71.1      73.5       65.9       57.8      89.7       83.8
1/  Excludes Government-owned Ordinary 'B" and Preference "A." shares and dividends thereon.
Source:  Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
January 1975



ANNEX 18
INDTSTRIAL DETELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Projected Balance Sheets - 1974-1979
(IL million)
December 31,
1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                         15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0        15.0       15.0       15.0
Receivables                               30.0       23.5       35.1       50.9        65.9       82.2       94.2
Current Assets                       450.       38.5       50.1       65.9        80.9       97.2      109.2
Lonns outstanding-/                    1,873.7    2,127.8    2,762.1    3,633.8    4,698.6    5,955.1    7,390.1
Less:  provision for losses              (15.2)     (19.4)     (28.4)      (414.)     (57.3)     (76.2)     (96.8)
Subtotal                          1,858.5    2,108.4   2,733.7    3,592.4    4,641.'   5,878.9    7,293.3
Eauity investments in subsidiaries        15.1       15.1       15.1       15..       15.1        15.1       15.1
Other equity investments
(net of provisions)                      4.3        4.3        4.3        4.3         4.3        4.3        4. ,
State of Israel bonds                     34.7       45.6       53.6       62.6        72.6       84.6       99.6
Long-term deposits with
Israel Trensury                         97.4       90.5       27.6        9.7          -          -          -
Receivable from Government on
account of exchange differences
and linkage increments on
liabilities                            118.0      452.1      355.2       271.5      199.6      138.8       89.7
Net fixed assets                          _           2/         V          I/          V          2/         Z/
Total                             2,173.0    2,754.5    3,239.6    4,021.5    5,013.8    6,218.9    7,611.2
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                      184.7      187.4      179.9      190.3'      204.6      224.1      240.5
Special deposits fo: granting loans      132.1      190.6      181.'      171.1       160.8      152.2      144.1
Long-term debt:
Domestic currency                     186.7      199.4      365.0       567.4      815.'   1,111.7    1,470.0
Thxisting and identified foreign
currency                            907.7    1,309.0    1,)77.5    1,423.6    1,374.6    1,242.1       965.5
Unidentified foraign currency            -          -        85.0       445.0    1,075.0    2,035.0    3,290.0
Subtotal                          1,094.4    1,508.4   1,827.5   2,436.o    3,264.9    4,3B8.B    5,725.5
5% perpetual deposit                     281.2      375.0      545-o      700.3       833.6      867.0      867.0
Share capital                            375.0      374.0      373.0      371.0       369.0      367.0      365.0
Reserves                                 105.7      119.1      132.9       152.8      180.9      219.8      269.1
Total                               47 2,75h.5    3,239.6    4,021.5    5,013.8    6,218.9   7,511.2
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio                3.0        3.3        4.3         5.7        7.1        8.6        10.0
1/ Includes accrued interest
2/ Written down to nominal figure of IL 1
Source: Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd.
January 1975



INNEX 19
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
Projected Disbursement Schedule
(in million Dollars)
Total for      Total for    OG.lulative
Quarter          Year           Total
1975  July - September              0.3
October - December            o.6             0.9            0.9
1976  January - March               0.9
April - June                  1.2
July - September              1.6
October - December            1.9             5.6            6.5
1977  Janunry - March               2.2
April - June                  2.5
July - September              2.5
October - December            2.5             9.7           16.2
1976  January - March               2.2
April - June                 19
July - September             16
October - December            102             6.9           2jol
1979  January - March               0.9
April - June                  0.7
July - September              0.3             1.9           25.0
AEMNA/IC & DFC Division
March 1975



ANNEX 20
ISRAEL:  Organization of Research and Development Activity
The formulation of national policies in R&D, the initiation of new
R&D programs, and the coordination of all research activity is entrusted to
the National Research and Development Authority, which is responsible to the
Prime Minister. The Authority's Board is composed of the Chief Scientists
of the ministries, representatives of the universities and members of the
National Academy of Science. The Authority finances research programs and
sets up study groups (a) to propose long-range research programs for the
major sectors of the economy; and (b) to review international and local
developments in science and technology, assessing inter alia their prac-
tical implications for Israel's economic development. The Authority also
serves as the Secretariat of the Ministerial Committee on Science and Tech-
nology, which sets priorities, takes final decisions and ensures inter-
ministerial coordination in the implementation of national policies. At
the ministerial level, research programs are implemented by the Office of
the Chief Scientist, which has been established in key Ministries, includ-
ing the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The appended Organization Chart
gives the structure of Israel's R&D activity.



ORGANIZATION CHART OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN ISRAEL
GENERAL POLICY
AND BUDGETING
___                                                                                                MIN,                               MIN, L   0   i  v   *;   __  7      E R,^.MI I        D
EUATION &S   '                                                                            A  ...o
CULTURE                                                            pl                                EEP.TLTE                                              LNCT0
STALL ACAODI-          _      COUNCIL FUORUIGTER EDUCATION           NATOA R__EARCY                                                                     ANO                                                                   CORINAT
SCIENCES AND - "                  -.*f-EN- NEELPNT AUTO__TIY
4*                                                                                                                                           CR,C_ _ -tN _ u HIE SCIENITISTS ANTC TOLlS RADEAUT              MINISERI  PLANNING
HE8Hilill ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~H |L. WEITAN                                                        ANDIO  THI UNVE-TYA.S _ 
UNIVi RSITY                                                                                                   -               -STITUT  19W3LINSTITUTE| EARTELAVIVOFTHEUNIVERSllY                          ANDC CARDINATIA*
4*~~~~~~~4
5YRC:CT nBom     PGN                                          N-STY                                                                                        f. 
~_ _ _ _ I IOVISORY  FUNCTIONS                         BENUIOT                                                                                                                     I                  _UN
AND DEVELOPMENT
WET REUPUNSIXILITY
A.O-SOB EANCTIONS
3..,WR1975



ANNEX 21
Page 1
Multi-purpose Facility for Industrial R & D in the Negev
Background and Objectives
1.        The Negev covers 60% of Israel's land area and contains 12% of
Israel's population. Thus, it is the main territorial reserve capable of
natural growth. It contains most of the mineral resources of Israel: potash,
magnesium, aluminum, copper, bromine, clay and phosphates. Because of its
proximity to these basic materials, the Negev has been designated as the major
region for extensive industrial development. A number of large chemical com-
panies have already been established in the area, including Bromine Compounds
Ltd., Makhteshim Beersheva Chemical Works Ltd., and the Dead Sea Works, and
are expanding rapidly. Many medium sized plants producing glass, refractories
and ceramics are now in operation, while new small industries are appearing.
In order to develop novel and improved products and processes, these indus-
tries need research, development and testing facilities.
2.        The basic functions of the proposed expanded facilities would be:
(a) to provide additional specialized R&D and other technical services to
large industries already equipped with laboratories of their own; and (b) to
furnish R&D and testing services to industries too small to provide for their
own laboratories and which are not presently served. The facility will also
continue to perform work for university laboratories on a contract basis. A
related objective would be to move the Authority's on-going and future re-
search programs further toward commercial application.
Organization and Program
3.        The R&D Authority was established in 1973 following the incorpora-
tion of the former Negev Institute for Arid Zone Research into the Ben-Gurion
University of the Negev. The primary aims and responsibilities of the
Authority are: (a) to initiate applied research and development activities,
both of general importance to industry and of particular significance for the
industry located in the Negev; (b) to seek and administer research grants
from government and private sources both in Israel and overseas; (c) to en-
courage industry to make use of the scientific experience and facilities
available within the University; and (d) to help in the development of new
industries.
4.        The Authority administers applied research organized in Divisions
of Chemical Technology, Desert Engineering, Desert Ecology, Natural Products,
and Glass, Ceramics and Silicates (see appended Organization Chart). Among
the principal areas of investigation are water desalination and reclamation,
including membrane processes; revegetation for animal production in the Negev;
exploitation of natural resources of the Negev; plant physiology and bio-
chemistry; applications of radioisotopes in engineering. Local industry
shows a keen interest in the program. Currently, about half of the Authority's
IL 10.3 million income comes from research and technical services provided
mainly to industry. The fiscal 1975 budget is appended. It is understood



ANNEX 21
Page 2
that direct Government support for the Authority will be phased out in five
years, thus making the Authority self-supporting and dependent on industry
for revenues. This is a very ambitious goal, one which if it is achieved
will set the Authority apart from all but a very few analogous institutions
in the world. The Authority is a non-profit organization.
Proposed New Facilities
5.        The R&D Authority and its predecessor (going back to 1958) have had
reasonably good laboratory facilities for R&D, both fundamental and applied,
on bench scale. In order for the R&D Authority to provide better and more
diversified service to the industry in the Negev, it urgently needs (a) a
modern and well-equipped Unit Process Laboratory; and (b) a modern Testing
Service Facility. The Unit Process Laboratory, containing multipurpose inter-
mediate sized equipment, would make it possible to scale up processes devel-
oped in the laboratory to a pilot plant size. The facility would allow study
in depth of the processes and products, including costing and marketability,
thereby greatly facilitating commercialization. The Testing Service Facility
would be valuable to industry, providing independent support for R&D and
manufacturing, including quality control. It would include the following
units: Metallography--advanced microscopy, physical properties of materials,
heat treating; Mechanical Testing of Materials--fabricating and processing,
non-destructive testing; Special Purpose Section--corrosion and surface pro-
tection, polymers, ceramics, composite materials, and machine shop. The Test-
ing Service Facility will also construct, erect, maintain and repair equipment
and will also attend to technical problems, such as corrosion, safety, control
and automation. Service charges to industry for the use of the facility are
expected to increase and to cover its operating costs. Total cost of the
subproject is estimated at US$8.2 million, of which US$3.4 million in foreign
exchange (see Annex 27).
Management and Staff
6.        The management of the R&D Authority is experienced and capable.
Dr. Schechter, the Authority's Associate Director, provides strong leadership.
The Authority has a staff of 210, of which 80 are scientists and engineers.
The Authority's staff is competent and technically qualified. A list of the
Authority's key scientific personnel is appended. In addition to its own
staff, the Authority draws on consultants from other Israeli research insti-
tutes, university faculty members, and local industrial-technical people,
thereby augmenting its range of expertise.



ANNEX 21
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY        Appendix 1
ORGANIZATION CHART
Ben-Gurion Univ.
Bd. of Governors
Executive
Committee
Senate & University
Institutions
R&D Authority
Bd of Directors
Research     Publications &    Grants &      Administrativi
R&D Institute             Services      Information        Contracts    Services
Executive
Committee
Division of
Chem. Technology
l Division of       |
Natural Products
Division of
& Desert Ecology             x Subprojec
Division of Ind.
Electronics & Data
Processing
Application &
Commercialization
Source: Research & Development Authority
January 1975



ANNEX 21
Appendix 2
KEY SCI3NTIFIC PERSONNEL OF RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
as of January 31, 1975
Director of Research & Development Authority                  Prof. Z. Pelah
Associate Director of Research & Development Authority               J. Schechter
(At present Acting Director)
Administrative Director                                              0. Lapid
Head, Grants & Contracts                                             E. Rubin
Head, Publications & Information                                     Y. Glassman
Head, Administrative Services                                        E. Nutkovitch
Director Research & Development Institute                            J. Schechter
Head, Industrial Chemistry                                    Prof. Ch. Forgacs
Head, Engineering                                             Prof. K. Preiss
Head, Natural Products                                        Dr. D. Sitton
Head, Plant Introduction & Desert Ecology                            M. Forti
Head, Ceramics & Glass                                        Prof. E. Azmon
Head, Indust. Electronics & Information
Processing                                                  Prof. A. Cohen
Head, Application & Commercialization                                A. Tal
Source: Research & Development Authority
January 1975



*   ANNEX 21
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY         Appendix 3
Budget for 1 April 1974 - 31 March 1975
Planned          Planned          Estimated Actual
Expenses         Income                Income
IL.              IL.                   IL.
Research Divisions
1 -  Engineering  -                725,500
Regular Budget                             234,500              284,500
Grants & Contracts                         441,500              630,000
2 -  Industrial Chemistry        3,510,800
Regular Budget                           2,247,000            2,247,000
Grants & Contracts                       1,263,800            1,675,000
3 - Natural Products             2,210,000
Regular Budget                           1,400,000            1,400,000
Grants & Contracts                         810,000            1,140,000
4 -  Plant Introduction &          939,350
Desert Ecology
Regular Budget                              248,000             248,000
Grants & Contracts                         691,350              950,000
5 -  Ceramics & Glass                -
Grants & Contracts                                              250,000
6 -  Investments                   320,520
Regular Budget                              320,500             320,500
250,000
Total Budget
Regular Budget                           4,500,000            4,500,000
Grants & Contracts                       3,206,655            4,895,000
Total              *7,706,655        7,706,655            9,395,000
*Note: Actual expenses will be approximately equal to actual income.
Source: Research & Development Authority
January 1975



RESEARCH AND DEVl[J0PMENT AUTHORITY
Analysis of Expenses
(Year ended March 31, 1975)
Salaries  Travel    Supplies   Equipment    Miscellaneous   Total
IL.       IL.        IL.         IL.            IL.           IL.
1 - Research Divisions
A - Rcgular Budget
Engineering                              314,038    4,769      66,753      84,342         27,767         497,659
Industrial Chemistry                     276,246    3,878      11,636       4,186         10,652        306,592
Life Sciences                             69,608    7 423      73,428       9,947         27,255        137,G61
Desert Ecology & Plant Introduction        36,195      978      3,880      14,520         53,619         109,192
Total   -       696,087   i7jo48    155,697    112,979          119,293      1,101,104
B - Grants & Contracts
Engineering                              610,271   87,486      54,399      31,234        122,011        905,401
industrial Chemistry                     436,109   17,301      89,013      32,333        49,871         624,627
Life Sciences                            738,346   12,794    121,713       28,959         92,356      1,044,163
Desert Ecology & Plant Introduction      327,346    7,456      21,010       4,737         16,151         376,700
Total   -     2,162,072  125,037    286,135       97,263        280,389      2,950,896
Total for Research Divisions    -      2,858,159  142,085    441,832    210,242          399,S82      4,052,000
2 -  Services & Overheads
Library                                   49,692       37G    203,660        -            13,510         267,238
Workshops                                154,931    8,379       25,458       -             1,871        190,639
Animal facilities                         59,019    1,981      19,499       2,640          1,453         84,592
Publications                             100,659    1,634        -           -             1,769        104,062
Transport                                 35,823   51,027         -                          260          87,115
Photography & stencils                       -         -       17,028        -             2,170         19,198
Analytical laboratory                          62      -        4,058         234          2,793           7,147
Total          400,191   63,397    269,703        2,874        23,826         759,991
Total Expenses                         3,258,350  205,482    711,535    213,116          423,508      4,811,991
*Figures taken from official financial audit of Ben-Gurion University to 31 March 1974
Source: Research & Development Authority
January 1975



ANNEX 22
Page 1
Solar Ponds
Background and Objectives
1.        Work on solar ponds in Israel was initiated in 1958 and continued
until 1966. At that time it was concluded that the cost of production of
energy from such ponds would be too high to compete with conventional fuels.
Currently, however, with improved techniques and with rising fuel costs,
expanded use of solar energy seems feasible.
Technical Aspects
2.        The non-convecting solar pond collector is a black-bottomed pond in
which convection is suppressed by a density gradient: the salt solution is
maintained denser at the bottom than at the top. The absence of convection
allows solar heat, absorbed by the more concentrated solution at the bottom,
to be trapped there. The heat can be extracted for conversion into elec-
trical energy or used directly. The experimental tests show that a tempera-
ture close to the boiling point of water can be obtained at the bottom of the
pond and that 20-30% of incident solar radiation is retained at low but use-
ful temperatures. The subproject is concerned with scaling up the system to
commercial prototype size and to evaluate the viability of commercialization.
Organization
3.        The proposed R&D will be done by the Scientific Research Foundation,
a non-profit public institution, under the supervision of Dr. Harry Tabor, a
highly respected pioneer in the field of solar energy. He will be assisted
by some of the very competent specialists associated with him in the earlier
program. The work will be done in cooperation with the National Physical
Laboratories (one of the national laboratories under the general supervision
of the OCS) and in the facilities of that laboratory at the Hebrew University.
The National Physical Laboratory is owned by the Government and employs a
well-qualified and competent staff of 33, including eight technicians. An
Organization Chart is appended.
Program
4.        The project will consist of:  (a) a study of the technical problems
and economic feasibility; (b) building and putting into operation a small-
scale prototype and providing conceptual design for a desalination plant and
for the production of electric power in the range of 10 megawatts. The proj-
ect is expected to take three years to complete and costs are estimated at
US$1.7 million, of which US$0.3 million is foreign exchange (Annex 27).
5.        Research on solar energy is being carried out in a number of insti-
tutes around the world, including the Lawrence Livermore Laboratories at the
University of California. The proposed salt solution pond is believed to be
simpler and has a greater energy storage capacity than other techniques,



ANNEX 22
Page 2
provided it can be demonstrated that the solar pond is stable (i.e. that the
more concentrated salt solutions remain at the bottom), and that it is low in
maintenance cost and efficient over a long period of time when undertaken on
a sufficiently larger-scale.
Benefits
6.        The Scientific Research Foundation estimated that solar energy
could be produced at a cost of 34 Mils/KW hr. This would be competitive with
small local power plants, usually diesel, but could not compete with conven-
tional production of electrical energy in large installations. There, the
higher operating temperatures make for more efficient operation and an energy
cost of less than 10 Mils/KW hr. Therefore, solar energy will find its greatr
est use for small-scale production of electrical energy, and for the direct
use of the low temperature heat in areas which have an arid and hot climate.
Preliminary estimates suggest that solar ponds could produce 440 kwhs per
square meter per year of thermal energy (e.g. hot water for desalination),
or 44 kwhr per square meter per year of electrical energy.
7.        Israel's economy would benefit by the creation of a non-polluting
energy source that would not rely on imported fuels. Depending on the suc-
cess of the technology, there is also prospect of selling design and engineer-
ing services to other energy-hungry economies, particularly developing coun-
tries.
Vulnerability
8.        The development work to be undertaken in this project is essentially
to verify and check the results on a commercial prototype scale and to assess
the commercial potential of the technology: specifically, whether or not the
conditions of stability and lower operating costs can be met. It is also
important that the institution acquire the necessary capabilities relating
to commercial design and engineering in the early stage of prototype devel-
opment to ensure its direction toward commercial application. The Bank has
been assured during negotiations that the Scientific Research Foundation will
take steps to this end as appropriate.



ANNEX 22
Appendix 1
THE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH FOUNDATION  -  JERUSALEM
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
(12)
_   _       _       ~~~~~EXTERNAL AUDIT]
CHIEF SCIENTIST           EXECUTIVE BOARD                  IMANAGINiGDRCO
SCIE* NTIS                                                                     DIRECTOR|
(5)
LEGAL
ADVISOR
WORKSHOP
PROJECT LEADERS
FINANCES
ADMIN
I   ~~I    I    -I
ELECTRIC     ELECTRO-       ENERGY        ELECTRO-
VEHICLES     CHEMISTRY                    OPTICS
ELECTRONICS
Source: The Scientific Research Foundation, Jerusalem                    World Bank-9595
EMENA/IC & DFC Division
February 1975



ANNEX 22
Appendix 2
THE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH FOUNDATION
Balance Sheets j
30.9.74    30.9.73                              30.9.74    30.9.73
Fixed Assets                               Funds
Building        337,2h1    337,241         Reserve              600,000
Vehic:les        56,445      15,000         Current projects
(after allowing
for debts to NPLI) 303,946
Equipment                                  Excess income over
(nominal)            1           1          expenditure         27,137
393,686    352,242                              931 ,083    1,002,989
Investments                                Severance Pay Fund       88,490       43,000
Bank guaranteed
loans       1,050,000  1,182,900       Other Commitments
Securities       11,300    159,577         includes bank
overdraft, short-
Saving loan      62,906      29,336           term loans        788,505       739,029
1.,124,2o6  1,371,813
Advances
and loans       290,186      60,963
1,808,078  1,785,018                            1,808,078    1,785,018
j Condensed from the audited Hebrew balance sheet. Years ending September 30.
EMENA/IC & DFC Division
February 1975



THE SCIENTTIC F&3SEARCH FOUNnDrTION
BUDGET: April 1, 1975 - March 31, 1976        2/
I;T
1. General costs                                  498,000
2. Electric Vehicle
(a)  vehicle development                 1,719,000
(b)  battery development                    69,500
3. Electro-optics and electronics
(includes devices for the blind,
the handicapped and instrumentation
used in other projects)                    405,500
4. Energy and energy conservation
(this item is in part dependent
upon grants promised but not
yet confirmed. It includes
I6200,000 "seed money" for solar
ponds)                                     600,000
5.  Workshop                                      287,000
Total                  3,579,000
j This budget shows general or "headquarters" costs - which includes some
scientific staff, and costs for specific projects: the latter do not
include administrative, workshop or overhead costs.
/ Sources of revenue are research grants and own resources.
EMENA/IC & DFC Division
February 1975



ANNEX 23
Page 1
Liquid Wax Production from Jojoba Beans
Background and Objectives
1.        Jojoba (Simmondsia), a desert plant, produces beans which contain
about 50%, by weight, of a practically colorless, odorless oil or liquid wax
with unusual and useful properties. The oil resembles sperm whale oil in
chemical composition and physical behavior. It possesses a high thermal
stability so that the oil and its sulfurized derivatives have promise as
special lubricants in high temperature, high pressure cutting oils. The
liquid can be hydrogenated to a hard colorless solid, resembling carnauba wax
in behavior. Completely hydrogenated wax has an unusually high melting point
of about 75°C. Partial hydrogenation yields a softer wax or salve which also
has unusual stability during long term storage, with the possibility of use
as a cosmetic base. Extraction of the oil is relatively simple and can be
carried out with standard equipment and techniques.
Technical Program
2.        Preliminary experiments at the University of California, Riverside,
and the Research and Development Authority in Beer Sheva indicate that the
plants can be cultivated and the yield greatly improved. Adapting a wild
species to cultivation is a protracted and relatively expensive process. Re-
search on jojoba cultivation in Israel began in 1961. Preliminary work indi-
cated that high yielding strains requiring little or no irrigation can be
developed. Such cultivated immature plants (three-year olds) have yielded
800 grams; five or six year old plants have yielded 3 Kgs. Objectives of the
proposed research are to develop: (a) a commercial crop with well-defined
productivity and wax quality; (b) efficient methods of cultivation for maxi-
mum yield; (c) an inexpensive harvesting system; (d) supply of raw material
(liquid wax) in quantities sufficient for industrial evaluation and product
development; (e) a pilot plant to determine the best methods of liquid wax
extraction, hydrogenation, polymerization, and utilization of potentially
valuable by-products; and (f) new uses and markets for jojoba oil and wax.
The first three objectives would run concurrently; the other three would be
initiated toward the end of the program. The major uncertainty is whether
the bush can be produced as a cultivated agricultural crop.
Organization
3.        The personnel of the R&D Authority of the Ben-Gurion University of
the Negev assigned to this project are experienced and well qualified. The
project director, Meir Forti, is a competent agricultural engineer, familiar
with the jojoba problem. The Authority's facilities available for the work
are adequate. In order to ensure successful commercialization of the develop-
ment work it is necessary to arrange for the cooperation of an agricultural
organization to grow the crop and for an industrial chemical company to pro-
cess and market the products. Planning for these activities will be started



Page 2;
immediately to ensure that practical considerations are related to the devel-
opment activities.
Financial Aspects
4.        The financial appraisal of the project cannot be done precisely
until the technical problems are resolved. Based on a composite of known
figures and desk estimates it was possible, however, to construct a rough
estimate of the situation. The R&D will cost US$1.6 million of which US$0.6
million is foreign exchange (See Annex 27). If a technology is successfully
developed, establishing a plantation containing 1,000 plants per acre will
cost about US$1,000. Maintaining, harvesting etc. is estimated to be US$400-
$600 per annum. After seven years, the mature bushes would produce 5,000
pounds of beans per year, which converts into 2,300 kilos of oil per acre.
The oil can be converted at low cost into a series of products competing with
sperm oil, beeswax, and carnauba wax. On the world market beeswax sells for
US$2.05 per lb. and carnauba US$2.36-US$2.73. Imports by the major indus-
trialized countries alone amount currently to over 15,000 tons a year. In
addition, it is anticipated that new and more sophisticated markets will be
developed for these products, commanding higher selling prices. On the basis
of tentative estimates, wax can be produced at approximately US$0.60-0.70 per
lb., which is encouraging. The R&D Authority will undertake annual in depth
studies for waxes competing with carnauba, including the possible development
of new competing technologies.
Benefits
5.        The primary benefit of this project would be the establishment of
an attractive agrochemical business, producing a wide array of valuable com-
mercial materials, using arid land of limited value. It is anticipated that
most of the product would be exported thereby bringing in hard currency to
Israel. The agricultural procedures perfected here could later be adopted by
other developing countries with similar climatic conditions. The prognosis
of success for this project is very good, subject of course to the uncertain-
ties that affect all long-range research projects.
Vulnerability
6.        The project is based on the assumption that the jojoba bush can be
converted into a commercial crop in Israel. The Negev researchers are con-
fident it can be done. This optimistic view is shared by researchers in the
U.S. Yet, it has to be demonstrated. Also, agricultural and industrial
organizations must be brought into the project at an early date to ensure
commercial focus.



ANNEX 24
Page 1
Rural Telephone System
Background and Objectives
1.        The subproject is intended to provide a rural telephone system to
serve communities of 100 to 400 potential subscribers.  The system will be
an all-electronic telephone exchange integrated with a radio link to connect
with the parent exchange, pre-packaged and pre-installed in a building so that
it can be put into operation shortly after delivery. The marketing of such
a system poses many difficulties. The system will have to compete not only
with other electronic exchanges now in various stages of design and production,
but also with proven crossbar and other systems now in widespread use. Tadiran
feels it can market this product because of its association with General Tele-
phone and Electronics International Ind. (GTEI), and believes there is a de-
mand for a small size, fully electronic, pre-packaged and pre-installed tele-
phone system.
Market Outlook
2.        Akbout 4.5 million lines of switching equipment are estimated to have
been installed in the rural areas throughout the world as of the end of 1973,
accounting for 2% of the world total telephone lines. Of this market, 92% is
controlled, in the sense that procurement of switching systems for economy,
standardization, nationalism and other reasons (e.g. many private telephone
operating companies are owned by or have close ties with telephone equipment
manufacturing companies) are mostly tied historically to fixed suppliers.
This leaves only 8% of the market, or 335,000 lines to new entrants. The
rural telephone market is projected to increase at about 14% per annum over
the next 1CI to 15 years. This would imply that during the 1980's, some 1.4
million lines would be installed in the uncontrolled market that falls in
the range of sizes which Tadiran proposes to market. Tadiran projects (see
Appendix 2) sales of 230,000 lines in the 1980's, representing 17% of the
untied rural telephone market, which is attainable. Tadiran is confident
that the novelty of its pre-packaged "rural communication center" and competi-
tive price will enable it to penetrate this market. Competition from other
rural systems incorporating fully electronic exchanges already exists and is
certain to increase in the future, and Tadiran must get a quick and strong
start if it is to succeed. Success in penetrating the market would depend on
providing a cheaper and/or technologically superior system, on overcoming the
marketing hurdle, and on doing both before competition becomes overpowering.
Proposed Development
3.        The first phase of development will be the detailed and comprehen-
sive characterization of the system, of the major sub-systems, and of the
interfaces. The Tadiran design is feasible. The main effort will be carried
out by three teams, working in parallel on the three major sub-systems: the
exchange, the multiplexer, and the radio link. All three efforts will essen-
t4_1 v be extensions of related development work in Tadiran which is now in
various phases of completion.



4.
4.        This program extends over a 42-month period and consists of the
following phases: (a) system definition; (b) engineering models development;
(c) prototype run; (d) system integration tryout; (e) procurement and produc-
tion set up.
5.        The estimated total budget required for this R&D subproject is
US$3.9 million, with foreign exchange costs amounting to US$1.8 million (see
Annex 27). Based on Tadiran's anticipated share of the market, the financial
and economic rates of return of the project, if it is successful, are 34% and
33%, respectively (Appendix 1). Tadiran's financial statements (1972-79) are
appended.
Company Capability to Carry Out Project
6.        Tadiran Israel Electronics Industries Ltd., is Israel's largest
electronics and telecommunications manufacturer, although it barely exceeded
workshop size when it was founded in 1961. Its sales have soared from IL 2
million in 1961 to IL 350 million during 1973. Tadiran presently employs
about 300 engineers and other professionals, 1,300 technicians and other
skilled workers, 2,500 production workers, and 500 clerical and service
employees. Fifty percent of Tadiran's voting shares is owned now by GTEI,
a world leader in the field of telecommunications electronics. Tadiran's
major product lines include: telecommunication equipment, electric and
electronic consumer products, power sources and electronics components. It
exports 22% of its output. Tadiran's on-going R&D activity is one of the
company's major assets; it allocates about 4% of its sales to R&D, maintain-
ing an R&D force totalling 250 people.
7.        If successful, this subproject would be financially rewarding, earn
foreign exchange, and provide employment opportunities for scientists and
engineers. In addition, there would be a spin-off in technological and mar-
keting experience in developing and producing goods for a competitive world
market.
Areas of Uncertainty
8.        The subproject faces the considerable uncertainties in a competi-
tive world. Tadiran's chances of success could be materially altered if there
are significant delays in reaching the target dates for manufacture and sales,
or if costs are not kept within its current targets and close to or lower
than its competitors. Tadiran will also have to overcome advantages held by
current telecommunication switching suppliers. Currently, major manufacturers
are successfully marketing a number of modern electromechanical systems, such
as the crossbar, which cater to the needs of rural areas and provide adequate
service with low maintenance costs; and all have advanced developments in
electronic switching which are aimed, at present, principally at the urban
networks and at the business PABX but which are readily adaptable to the
rural exchange market. Historically, the international market has been con-
trolled by a few big international firms and there has been no entry by new



ANNEX 24
Page 3
firms in the last several decades. Also, while GTEI, who will assist Tadiran,
is a big firm in its own right, its share of international switching market
has been relatively small in the last decade or so. Although the subproject
is technically feasible, there are still difficulties in adapting a highly
complex prototype into commercial use (because of possible incompatibilities
among subcomponents of the system) and in integrating it into each of the
different national telecommunications systems and signalling conditions.
9.        Tadiran is confident of resolving technical problems with GTEI's
assistance. It is also aware of the fact that its market research must be
completed at an early stage, so that the areas most suitable for the in-
stallation of a rural telephone system as well as the specific requirements
of each individual area can be ascertained in due time.



TADITRALdJ ELECTRONICS TIL4JUSTRIES LTD
Financial and Economic Calculations
(IL Thousand
R & D Expenditures         Investment Costs!-/       Operating Costs                Benefits
Year     infancial   Economic     Financial   Economic      Financial   Economic       Financial   Economic
1         600oo       4200
2        3460        8550
3        1070        3070
4         330         950          101470       8860          4270                       5800       4800
5                                   3060        1530         11730        3580          16ooo      13180
6                                   5040        2520         24500        9680          32900      26980
7                                   4380        2190         35400       19850          47500      4j620
8                                   3570        2300         40800       28500          54800      44950
9                                   1520         760         47700       32850          59900      49150
10                                    880         440         50000       35210          62800       51540
11                                    880         440         52000       36830          65700       53940
12-20                                                           52000      38125          65700       53940
21                                                            52000       38125          80000      63790
/ Gross working capital included.
a/Include R&D expenditures after the 4th year.
Sensitivity Tests
Rates of                                               Rates of
I.  Financial Rates of Return                  Return       II.  Economic Rates of Return             Return
After taxes                                  34%             As projected                            37
Excluding grant for R & D                 22%             R & D expenditure increased by 100%  20%
Including grant for R & D (65%)          34%              Investment costs increased by 25%    31%
R & D expenditure increased by 100%  26%               Operating costs increased by 15%       27%
Operating costs increased by 15%      17%              Sales revenue increased by 25%         45%
Operating costs decreased by 15%      46%              Sales revenue decreased by 25%         10%
Sales revenue increased by 15%        49%              Investment costs increased by 50%    29%           . M
Sales revenue decreased by 15%        17%              Operating costs increased by 25%       23%
Investment costs increased by 25%    30%
Investment costs increased by 50%    26%
EMENA/IC&DFC Division
January 1975



TADIRAN ISRAEL ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIES LTD
Pro4ected Market Share
(Thousand Lines)
1973    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1980-89
Rural Telephone            L
Installed  /         355-  890   1,015   1,160   1,320   1,505   1,715   1,955   2,230   2,540   2,900              17,230
Uncontrolled Rural
Telephone Market  /   -        71      81       93     106      120      137     156      178      203     232       1,377
Tadiran's Projected
Sales                  -       13      20       21      23       24       26      26       26       26      26         231
Tadiran's Share in
the Untied Market      -       18%     25%      22%     22%      20%      19%     17%      15%      13%     11%         17%
j Represents 2% of the world market
/ Estimated annual rate of growth: 14%
j Estimated at 8%
3 D
EMENA/IC&DFC Division
January 1975



ANNEX 24
Appendix 3
TADIRAN ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Summary Balance Sheets
(IL million)
1972      1973      1974      1975       1976      1977
-----actua ----------         -------estimated--------
ASSETS
Current Assets            209       319       510        599       677       767
Investments                9         23        31        66        105       147
Fixed Assets (after
depreciation)           72         83       105       182        247       287
TOTAL ASSETS       290        425       646       847      1,029     1,201
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities       130       232       415       477        582       672
Long-term Debt           100        122       134       214        231       237
Shareholders Equity 2/    60         71        97       156        216       292
290       425       646       847      1,029     1,201
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Current Assets/
Current Liabilities    1.6        1.4       1.2       1.3        1.2       1.1
Long-term Debt/Equity    1.7        1.7       1.4       1.4        1.1       0.8
j Includes Government investment grant
EMENA/IC&DFC Division
January 1975



ANNEX 24
Appendix 4
TADIRAN ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIES MIUITED
Summary Profit and Loss Statements
(IL million)
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976      1977
-------actual ---------        -------estimated--------
Sales                     264        349       510        900     1,100      1,280
Cost of Sales             207        273       385        688       830        955
Gross Profit           57        76        125        212       270        325
Expenses                   41         52        75        114       165        189
Net Income before
Taxes                    16         24        50         98       105        136
Taxes                       4          8        22         43        47         61
Net Income           12        16         28        55         58         75
OPERATING RATIOS
Income Before Tax/
Equity                   27%        34%       52%        63%       49%       47%
Net Income/Equity          20%        23%       29%        35%       27%       26%
Net Income/Sales %         4.5        4.6       5-5        6.1       5.3       5-9
Net Income/Share Capital  34%         46%       78%       149%      153%      192%
EMENA/IC&DFC Division
January 1975



ANNEX 25
Page 1
Prime Movers (Engines) for On-Site Power Generation
Background and Objectives
1.        The Ormat Company developed eight years ago a non-conventional
engine using oil or gas as fuel, suitable for driving an electric generator.
The engine is essentially a turbo expander based on a closed, Rankine cycle
using an organic compound as working fluid. The objective of the proposed
subproject is to develop a similar engine which will use locally available
low temperature heat or locally available non-fossil fuels. The intention
is to provide a relatively low operating cost power unit in situations where
the volume of demand does not warrant conventionally powered electric install-
ations. The expected outcome is a family of engines designed and adapted to
the following applications:
(1) Village engine (1-5HP) capable of using wood and
agriculture waste (e.g. rice hulls, straw, biogas).
(2) Engine for pumping drinking water for people and
animals in arid regions, using solar energy (1-5HP).
(3)  Engine (5-15HP) for a multipurpose tractor which can use
non-fossil fuels.
(4) Power generator (100W - 1KW) for rural TV educational
systems and telecommunications.
(5) Conceptual design of a large sized turbogenerator (1-10MW)
for electricity production from geothermal energy, solar
pond heat or ocean thermal gradients.
Technical Aspects
2.        The Ormat Energy Converter (O.E.C.) was originally designed to use
solar energy for power generators, but because of the availability of more
convenient fossil fuels, it was discontinued. More recently, the engine has
been used as a power source for microwave links of relay stations, using con-
ventional fuels. This new market was developed mainly because of the high
reliability and unattended, maintenance-free operation of the engine. In
cooperation with communication companies, Ormat successfully modified the
solar-powered, water-cooled original prototype to a gas - and later oil -
fired unit with an air-cooled, natural draft, condenser. Since 1966, over
400 units have been in successful operation all over the world. The first
unit is still operating today with no maintenance and has already run for over
70,000 hours. This experience corroborates the feasibility and success of
the O.E.C. as a high reliability and maintenance-free power source.



ANNEX 25
Page 2
3.        The proposed engine, which can use non-conventional low cost fuels
as supplementary or exclusive heat sources, is expected to replace the small
diesel engine in various village applications and to be adapted for possible
use in tractors and other motorized agricultural farm equipment. The study
also includes the development of engines fueled from solar energy sources,
which would be capable of driving electric generators in small installations.
Ormat has already a head start over potential competitors in the technology
of Rankine cycle engines. With the increasing cost of conventional fossil
type fuels, there is an increased worldwide awareness of the need to develop
engines using low temperature differentials.
Proposed R&D
4.        The program schedule of the proposed subproject will extend over a
period of four years during which the R&D teams will develop commercial scale
prototypes of components for the Rankine cycle engines as outlined below: (a)
boiler which can run on any fuel; (b) small low cost turboalternators; (c)
small size power units; (d) output power control systems of wood and solar
boilers; (e) condensers; (f) compact power units; (g) heat supply systems for
solar energy converters; (h) 1 MW turboalternators. The estimated cost of
the subproject is US$4.6 million, of which US$1.4 million is in foreign
exchange.
Market Outlook
5.        The market of the family of engines to be developed would be in
isolated areas where the maintenance of diesel engines is difficult, or where
conventional fuel is expensive or not readily available. The Ormat Company
has already been involved in many projects in developing countries and has
the necessary experience and appreciation of their special needs and require-
ments. Therefore, Ormat's competitive position should be strong. Because of
the low cost of fuel, unattended and maintenance-free operation and long life,
Ormat estimates that the proposed engine of the small size envisaged would
result in estimated savings of up to two-thirds of operating costs compared
with diesel generator systems of comparable size. Assuming a product mix of
20,000 units at full capacity, the financial (after taxes) and economic rates
of return of the subproject, if successful, are 41% and 43% respectively.
(Appendix 1).
The Company
6.        Ormat Turbines Ltd., was formed in 1964 for the purpose of manu-
facturing small sized turbogenerators. Specializing in electrical power
producing systems, it has developed, and is now manufacturing, the Ormat
Energy Converter (O.E.C.) which produces low power electricity using the
Rankine cycle engine in a continuous, unattended, maintenance-free operation.
This aggressive and successful company has grown from 63 employees in 1970 to
130 in 1974, with a forecast of 375 by 1976. The company's annual investment
in R&D reached 5% of sales in 1973. Financial statements are shown in Ap-
pendices 2 and 3.



ANNEX 25
Page 3
Benefits
7.        The subproject, if successful, would lead to the introduction of a
low-cost and maintenance-free family of prime movers with wide and useful
applications in developing countries. For Israel it would generate employment
opportunities during the R&D stage and later manufacture, considerable foreign
exchange earnings, and would strengthen the R&D capabilities in the country.
Vulnerability
8.        A major problem in the product development will be to identify and
define the potential market, to eliminate unprofitable ideas and to design a
product line accordingly. To this end marketing studies would be an integral
part of product development. This will require a close and detailed analysis
of the needs of rural communities in developing countries as well as of the
likely demand for Rankine cycle engines from rural development programs,
agricultural cooperatives, etc. The supposed advantages of Rankine cycle
engines over diesel generators for village applications may not survive the
test of practice. For example, the absence of maintenance problems may be
overshadowed by the higher initial cost of the engine compared to the diesel.
Non-conventional fuels may be available during only part of the year, or
continue to be diverted to traditional alternative uses. Complementary
energy technologies, such as solar, ocean, geothermal and biogas, may not
develop as fast as it now seems likely. There may be difficulties in achiev-
ing market acceptance for new energy sources for tractors, television sets
and pumps.
9.        Furthermore, this is a long-range business venture by a small,
successful firm which contains some of the weaknesses commonly found in such
companies. Technoeconomic and marketing studies were not strong. The com-
mercial viability of the proposed family of engines would therefore have to
be under constant review. Also, Ormat would have to work with others who
have expertise in the design, fabrication and sales of the items to be power-
ed by the turbines, such as tractors, pumps and television sets. Ormat al-
ready has a line of conventional generators. However, a relatively small
company with good technological strength can put into commercial application
innovative ideas only if it is encouraged and supported during its earlier
stages. Ormat's affiliation with the Turbomeca group, which is the world
leader in the field of small to medium gas turbines, is extremely valuable
and should help Ormat capture a sufficiently large share of the prospective
market for the proposed new engines.



ORMAT TURBINES LTD
Financial and Economic Calculations
(IL Thousand)
R & D Expenditures         Investment Costs1/         Operating Costsv/              Benefits
Year    Financial , Economic       Financial j Economic      Financial   Economic       Financial   Economic
1        2730         5995
2        2230         5185
3        1866         4339
4        1148         2815
5                                   5270         4550
6                                  13370        12290
7                                   6000         5600          42060      33710          48000       40000
8                                                              71280      52880          84000       70000
9                                                             121930      72480         156000      130000
1.0-20                                                          194450     129270         240000      200000
21                                                                                        12000       10000
l/Gross working capital included.
/ Includes R&D expenditures after the 4th year.
Sensitivity Tests
Rates of                                                  Rates of
I.  Financial Rates of Return                  Return        II.  Economic Rates of Return                Return
Before taxes                                 58%              As projected                              41%
After taxes                                  43%              R & D expenditure increased by 100%    32%
Excluding grant for R & D                 32%              Investment costs increased by 50%         39%
Including grant for R & D (65%)           43%              Operating costs increased by 25%          31%
R & D expenditure increased by 100%   35%                Sales revenue increased by 15%           48%
Operating costs increased by 15%        26%              Sales revenue decreased by 25%            22%
Sales revenue increased by 15%          55%
Sales revenue decreased by 15%          21%
Operating costs increased by 25%        11%
Investment costs increased by 50%       39%                                                                 X 
Sales revenues decreased by 25%         -1%                                                                11!
EENAAC & DFC Division
January 1975



ANNEX 2c
Appendix 2
ORMAT TURBINES LIMITED
Summary Balance Sheets
(IL '000)
1973      1974      1975       1976      1977       1978
'=-actual---… ------------estimated-------------
ASSETS
Current Assets               6,752    16,840    24,000    50,000    55,000    65,300
Investments                    31h        703         -
Fixed Assets
(after depreciation)       3,545     4,355     6,250      7,500     7,750      8,000
Long-term Loan                 366        216       100         -          -         -
Total Assets       10,977    22,114   30,350    57,500    62,750    73,000
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities          5,604    15,775    20,000    42,000    42,250    48,ooo
Long-term Debt               2,371     2,216      2,500     2,000      1,500     1,000
Various Provisions             484        534     2,000     2,500      3,500     5,000
Government Investment
Grant                        402       666        850     1,000      1,000     1,000
Shareholders Equity          2,116     2,923      5,000    10,000    14,500    18,000
Total Liabilities       10,977    22,114    30,350    57,500    62,750    73,000
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Current Assets/
Current Liabilities          1.2       1.1        1.2       1.2        1.3       1.4
Long-term Debt/Equity          0.9       o.6        0.4       0.2        0.1       0.1
EMENA/IC & DFC
March 1975



"?QI2 EI 2 ~
Appenri x
ORYAT  TIBP'S LITITED
Summary Profit and Loss Statements
(IL  '000)
1973      197h       1975       1976      1977       1978
----actual----       ------------estimated-------------
Sales                           8,201     9,793    36,000    80,000   100,000   125,000
Cost of Goods Sold              5,710     5,676    22,630    44,h00    58,000    74,250
Gross Profit                 2,491     4,117    13,370    35,600    42,000    50,750
Administrative, Financial
and Selling Expenses          2,019     2,800      6,370    21,600    27,000    33,750
Development Expenses              380        510     2,500      5,000     5,000      5,000
Net Profit                      92       807      4,500     9,000    10,000    12,000
Operating Ratios
Net Profit/Equity                 3.6%      22.4%     76.9%      81.8%     64.5%      63.1%
Net Profit/Sales                  1.1%       8.2%     12.5%      11.2%      10.0%      9.6%
EMENA/IC & DFC
March 1975



ANNEX 26
Page 1
Transverse Section Tomographic Scanner
Background and Objectives
1.        Transverse section scanning is a new radiological method, introduced
recently by the British company EMI, whereby changes of density within the
brain may be detected and located in three dimensions, thus enabling location
of tumors with great accuracy. It uses computers and X-rays to detect density
changes. The EMI scanner sells for US$350,000 per system and is thought to
be one of the most important innovations in the field of X-rays. Elscint
proposes to develop a more versatile and higher performance scanner than is
currently available.
Technical Aspects
2.        The EMI instrument currently on the market scans only the brain in
several minutes and analyzes the results in an additional number of minutes.
During the scanning, the patient has to be immobilized. For this reason, the
method has proved to be excellent with organs like the brain that can effec-
tively be immobilized for several minutes but not applicable for organs like
the lungs or heart, where immobilization becomes impractical. EMI is now
testing a machine which extends the application of the scanner to moving
organs of the body and expects to market a body scanner in the near future
at an estimated price of US$550,000. A tomograph called ACTA from Georgetown
University Hospital is also on the market and another is expected from Stanford
University. In addition to Elscint, Siemens, Pfizer, General Electric, Artronix
and Ohio Nuclear are showing an interest in the field.
3.        The purpose of the project is to enable Elscint to compete in the
expanding world market for body scanners with a state-of-the-art product of
its own design. Elscint proposes to reduce the scanning time to several sec-
onds, to lower the price of the equipment, and to increase the flexibility of
the instrument by incorporating a number of novel features. These goals are
ambitious but worthwhile. Elscint believes that novel technological features
in the design, the sensor elements, the data processing and the image recon-
struction techniques will enable their tomograph to reduce its scanning time
to about ten seconds. Ongoing efforts will be directed to take advantage of
new technology in the development of detectors. The project is technically
feasible. The technological and human resources to successfully develop the
product are available at Elscint. The higher speed, the novel technological
features, and the much lower price should enable the Elscint body scanner to
effectively compete with rival scanners.
Proposed Research
4.        The objective of the project is to develop a more versatile and
advanced system which will produce computerized tomographic slice images and
which will sell at an estimated price of US$250,000, thus giving the opportu-
nity to Elscint to participate in a large, sophisticated and developing market.



ANNEX 26
Page 2
This program extends over a period of two years and the total budget required
amounts to US$2.3 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$0.9 million
(Annex 27).
Market Outlook
5.        Elscint estimates that some 5,000 hospitals over the world having
more than 200 beds each will equip themselves with a transverse section scan-
ning instrument by 1986. Elscint expects to capture 7 to 8% of the world mar-
ket and lto sell over 350 units over the 10-year period 1977-86. Assuming that
Elscint's share of the potential market is 6% or 300 units and a selling price
of US$250,000 per unit, both conservative estimates, the financial (after taxes)
and economic rates of return of the project would be 30% and 13%, respectively
(Appendix 1). Should Elscint be able to establish a lead in the field and to
develop a highly successful machine, its share of the market and profitability
would be further enhanced.
6.        The local market for the tomographic scanner will be very limited
and the bulk of the output will be exported, mostly to advanced countries.
There is also the possibility of foreign licensing. No revenue from this
potential source has been imputed in calculating financial and economic re-
turns. Competition from existing and new competitors is very likely to be
severe. On the other hand, new entry attests to the need for this type of
equipment and offers good grounds for supporting its development. The con-
tinuing commercial viability of the subproject will have to be checked by
conducting annual in-depth market studies and by close follow-up of techno-
logical developments in the field. These studies, to be prepared by Elscint,
will be reviewed by OCS and the Bank.
The Company
7.        Elscint Ltd., a high-technology company, was established in 1969 and
is engaged primarily in the development, manufacture, marketing and servicing
of nuclear medical equipment, nuclear scientific instruments and systems, and
diverse low and high voltage power supplies for adjusting electrical power to
specified frequency, voltage and current. Three subsidiaries market and ser-
vice the company's equipment sold in Europe. General Electric markets and
services the nuclear medical equipment sold in the U.S. and Canada. In 27
other countries, the company operates through local independent agents.
Elscint's R&D department employs 160 out of the company's 700 employees, in-
cluding 80 scientists and engineers. Close to 13% of sales goes into R&D
and engineering. The company's manufacturing plant is located in Haifa,
Israel. Most components are imported from several suppliers and the company
is not dependent upon any single source of supply. Metal parts are mostly
fabricated by the company. Assembly and test operations are performed by
assembly personnel and technicians supported by supervisors and engineers.
Elscint is a well-managed, aggressive and financially sound enterprise (fi-
nancial statements are appended), has an impressive record on product develop-
ment, and it should be capable of handling effectively the proposed R&D ac-
tivity.



ANNEX 26
Page 3
Benefits
8.        The proposed subproject leads to the creation of a high-technology
export product, thus contributing to Israel's foreign exchange earnings. Also,
as with all projects of this nature, it should prove valuable in strengthening
the R&D capability of the country and its capability for launching new products
on international markets, and should generate employment opportunities for
scientists and highly-skilled workers.
Vulnerability
9.        International competition exists and is expanding.  Patent rights
problems may also arise, and would have to be resolved.



ELSCINT LTD
Financial and Economic Calculations
(IL Thousand)
B. & D Expenditures        investment Costs-         Operating CostsE/              Benefits
Year    Financial I Economic      Financial   Economic      Financial   Economic       Financial   Economic
1        2300         6130
2        1370        3630
3                                  10000        9800         11300       10230          14400      12000
4                                                            11300       10230         14400       12000
5                                  15000      14740          11300       10230          14400      12000
6                                                            27840       25140          36000      30000
7                                  23400       22560         27840       251h0          36000      30000
8-16                                                          68770       61540          86400       72000
17                                                            68770       61540          93600       78000
-/Gross working capital included.
2/Include R&D expenditures after 2nd. year.
Sensitivity Tests
Rates of                                                    Rates of
I.  Financial Rates of Return                  Return           II.  Economic Rates of Return              Return
Before taxes                                37%                  As projected                            13%
After taxes                                  30%                  R & D expenditure increased by 100% t9%
Excluding grant for R & D                 23%                  R & D expenditure decreased by 50%    16%
Including grant for R &* D (65%)         30%                  Investment costs increased by 15%    11%
R & D expenditure increased by 100%  26%                   Operating costs increased by 15%    -11%
R & D expenditure decreased by 50%   34%                   Operating costs decreased by 15%       26%
Investment costs increased by 25%    25%                   Sales revenue increased by 15%         28%
Investment costs decreased by 25%    38%                   Sales revenue decreased by 15%        -20%
Operating costs increased by 15%       2%                  Investment costs decreased by 15%    15%
Operating costs decreased by 15%      49%                                                                  X 
Sales revenue increased by 15%        51%                                                                  U x
Sales revenue decreased by 15%        -20%
EMENA/IC&.DFC Division
January 1975



ANNE! '-   1.1
Appendix
ELSCINT LINITED
Summary Consolidated Balance Sheets  j
(IL 000)
1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
---------actual---------      --estimated---
ASSErS
Current Assets             12,645    24,237    44,882    63,370    72,120
Investment and
Deferred charges             500     1,118     2,441      4,620    7,780
Fixed Assets (after
depreciation)             1,814      3,425     6,310     7,550     9,590
Total Assets        114,959    28,780    53,633    75,5140    89,1490
LIABI LIT IES
Current Liabilities         lo,826    11,709    31,892    46,940    50,330
Long-Term Debt  2/          1,,471       823     2,368     3,600     5,050
Equity                      2,662    16,248    19,373    25,000    34,110
(Share & Paid-in
Capital)             (12,456)  (12,996)  (12,996)  (12,996)  (12,996)
Total Liabilities   14,959    28,780    53,633    75,540    89,490
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Current Assets/Current
Liabilities                 1.2        2.1       1.4       1.4       1.4
Long-term Debt/Equity         o.6        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
./ Year ending March 31
j Includes various provisions
I/ Includes Government investment grant
EMENA/IC&DFC Division
January 1975



ANNEX 26
Appendix 3
ELSCINT LIMITED
Summary Consolidated Profit and Loss Statements /
(IL '000)
1972      1973       1974       1975      1976
--actual--------                --estimated---
Sales
Exports                       7,212    15,045    26,164    38,540    55,820
local                         4,504     7,919      5,675    17,385    26,120
Commissions                     194       215        125
Total                  11,910    23,179    31,964    55,925    81,940
Cost of Sales
Cost of goods sold            3,665     9,185    14,392    25,953    38,980
Engineering and R&D           2,797     3,777      4,132     6,387      7,400
Total                   6,462    12,962    18,524    32,340    46,380
Gross Profit            -T7zw       10,217    13,440    23,585    35,560
Expenses
Selling                       2,268     4,139      6,383      8,622    13,200
Administrative                  618       994      1,813      2,400     3,600
Total                   2,886      5,133      8,196    11,022    16,800
Financial Expenses              735       669      1,216      2,651     4,350
Net Income (before
Taxes)                1,841      4,461     4,028      9,912    14,410
Taxes                           632     1,479        646      3,170     5,300
Net Income              1,208      2,982     3,382      6,742      9,110
-             .              .. =...._.
Operating Ratios
Income before Tax/Equity        69%       28%        21%        40%       42%
Net Income/Equity               45%       18%        18%        27%       27%
Net Income/Sales                10%       13%        11%        12%        11%
Net Income/Share Capital        49%       19%        18%        27%       26%
&/ Year ending March 31
EMENA/IC&DFC Division
January 1975



RESEARCJ{ AND DgfElPMEN,T COMPONEBT
Projections oZ R&D Expenditures-
(millions)
Tc tal                             % Foreign
Project                                                                                                               Foreign      Total                  Exchange
Duration                                       Materials/                                 2'       Total Localg                    T Exchange  Cost of  IBRD  Financed
Subproject                  Years      Constructior,    Equipment          Services           Salaries          0ther-2                   3     Epcndanne     Cost of     IBD         Fnc bT D
YE  $            IL                IL ~~~~~1F$    z                                       $ ot
1. Infrastructure
. Malti-disciplinary WRi
Facility                    5        5-1        -     1.5      1.9     7.1     10      12.8       0.2      2,5     0.3      29.0       4.8      3.4          8.2        1.65           49
II.  Pre-Commercial Development
2. Solar Ponds                     3         -        -     2.3      0.1     2.4       0.1      2.4       -       1.5     0.1       8.6       1.4      0.3          1.7        0.30         100
3,  Jojoba Beans (Wax)            5        1.1        -     0.4      o.4     o.6       D.1      3.4      0.1      O.6     0.1       6.1       1.0     o06           1.6        0.4o          66
TII.  Coomercial Prototype
DeveloprLent
4. Rural Telephone SystB           4         -        -     0.6      0.7     1.9       0.7    iO.1       0.3      0.1      D.1    12.7        2,1      1.8          3.9        1.00           55
5. Prime Movers                   4        1,0       0.2    4.2      1,0      -         -      1.6        -       2.5     0.2      19.3       3.2      1.4          4.6        0.95          68
6. Tomographic Scanner             2         _        -     0.2      0.2      1.5      o.6      4.7      0.1      1.9      -       8.3        1.4      0.9          2.3        o.ss           61
Technical Assistance to OMt                  -        -      -        -        -                  -                                                                            0.15         ioo
Total                          7.2      0.2    9.2       4.3    13.5      2.5      45.o      0.7      9.1     0.8      83,5      13.9      8.          22.3        5.o           60
YThe following inflators wee used:
--For iniported equipment aA materials:   1915: 13%; 1976: 11%; 1977: 9%; 1978:  8%; -979: 7%.
--For construction expensa:                1975: 25%; 1976:  20%; 1977: 15%; 1978: 10%; :979: 8%.
--For locally produced equipment
and materials:                     1975:  25%; 1976: 20%; 1977: 15%; 1978: 10%;  1979:  7%.
--For local salaries;                      1975:  20%; 1976: 15%; 1977: 10%; 1978: 8%; 1979: 7%.
--Vor foreign salaries and associated
costs:                             1975: 10%; 1976: 10%;  1977: 10%; 1978: 10%;  1979: 10%.
-   dsdmiastration expenses, Arketing expenses, etc.
- Local expenditures were o.erted into US $ at the rate of IL 6   US$1.
ENAt/0&fRJ Division
April 1975



ANNEX 28
Functions of the Office of the Chief Scientist (OCS)
1.        The basic responsibilities of the OCS are to (a) implement the
Government's policies for industrial R&D; (b) advise the Minister on matters
related to industrial R&D and ecology; (c) bring together the research commu-
nity with entrepreneurs in a concerted effort to direct industrial research
to the most promising applied fields; and (d) generate employment opportuni-
ties for :Lmmigrant scientists. The operating responsibilities of the OCS are
to (a) administer the matching fund program through the Research and Develop-
ment Fund Administration; 1/ (b) appraise and supervise national laborato-
ries, grouped under the Industrial Research Administration; (c) administer
the science-based industrial parks; and (d) to administer the new program of
R&D in projects of "national importance.
2.        The institutes under OCS's supervision are shown in Annex 29.  The
Chief Scientist discharges his supervisory function by chairing the Board of
the Industrial Research Administration under which the institutes are grouped
(see Appendix 1). The major problems the institutes face are: weak organiza-
tion, sub--standard performance, and excessive emphasis on basic research.
The appraisal and supervision of R&D projects under the matching funds pro-
gram (para. 2.08) is the responsibility of the Research Committee under the
Chairmanship of the Chief Scientist. The members of the committee (see Ap-
pendix 2) are selected from among experts in the various divisions of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. As the committee now stands, the appraisal
inputs (technical and economic) are rather low. The Chief Scientist proposes
to bring about changes to improve its functioning, in light of past experience
as well as of that to be gained from the administration of the projects of
national importance. On the whole, OCS is confronted with an array of pro-
blems in the discharge of his functions, such as improving the performance
of the institutes, strengthening the procedures for project appraisal and
supervision work,, recruiting qualified staff, and reorienting industrial re-
search. The Chief Scientist has a thorough grasp of the issues and is work-
ing out plans to resolve them.
1/  Industrial research partly funded by the Government is now being pursued
in fields such as control systems and tooling for mechanized agriculture,
textiles, and the diamond-cutting industry; medical instrumentation and
diagnostic equipment; educational aids, including teaching machines; and
mineral process design facilities including chemical testing laborato-
ries and pilot plants. Other areas of advanced technological specializa-
tion include mini-computers and peripherals; enzymes, pharmaceuticals,
and other industrial materials (such as rubber and wax) from desert
plants. Fish culture in subtropical waters, edible protein from algae
cultures, solar ponds as an energy source, frozen and dehydrated pro-
ducts, desalination and waste recycling systems, biomedical diagnostic
systems, rural communications and small-scale fuel-energy systems, are
other areas now being explored intensively.



LNYNEX 28
Appendix 1
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(As of October 31, 1974)
1.   Prof. Y. Yaakov, Chief Scientist (Chairman)
2.   Dr. Ben Tovin, Director, Industry
3.   Mr. A. Goldberg, Technician
4.   Mr. A. Gafni, Ministry of Finance, Budgets
5.   Dr. E. Tal, Director, Council for R&D, Prime Minister Office
6.   Prof. Ne'eman, President, Tel Aviv University
7.   Mr. M. Amit, Director, Koor Industries
8.   Mr. S. Kalir, Director, Argaman Textile Industry
9.   Prof. S. Shtrickman, Professor, Weizman Institute
10.   Dr. M. Zirin, Managing Director, OCS
Source: Office of Chief Scientist



AKNEX 28
Appendix 2
OFFICE OF CHIEF SCIENTIST
RESEARCH COMMITTEE
(As of October 31, 1974)
1.   Prof. Y. Yaakov, Chairman
2.   Dr. M. Zirin, Alternate Chairman
3.   Mr. Z. Elon, OCS
4.   Mr. R. Pridor, OCS
5.   Dr. Elshtein, Food, Chemicals Division
6.   Mr. Gur-Arye, Textile and Leather Division
7.   Mr. Arazi, "Light Industry" Division
8.   Mr. Asheri, Electronic and Machines Division
9.   Mr. Reis, Patent Office
10.   Mr. Esnei, Council for R&D (Prime Minister Office)
11.   Dr. Kela, Ministry of Communication
12.   Mr. M. Ostern, Administrator of the Fund
Source: Office of Chief Scientist



OFFICE OF CHIEF SCIENTIST                                                                            ANNEX 29
ORGANIZATION CHART
as of October 31, 1974
The Minister
Board of Directors/                                                                                                         Research
Industrial Research                                  Chief Scientist                                                        Committee
Administration
Office of the Chief Scientist    l
l                l                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
rIndustrial                        Rea run
Research  Adm.                                                                                                   AdministraRioc
esea r ubber Research A_
Cs u eramiconSilcateInstiutio
Fermentation Unit             Here  Unvrst
Israel F  Institute                        e
-S  f ie ntf CResrchietstMin   oCmec Associtro                                                                    l
SOURCE: Office of Chief Scientist, Ministry of Commerce and Industry                                                    WYorldl Bank-9430



ANNEX 30
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Schedule of Estimated Quarterly Disbursements
(US$ Thousand)
Cumulative
Cumulative           Percent
Year             Quarter          Disbursement          Disbursed
1975                3                   250                 5.0
4                  600                12.0
1976                1                 1 ,000               20.0
2                1,420                28.4
3                1,880                37.6
4                2,330                46.6
1977                1                 2,730                54.6
2                3,080                61.6
3                3,L10                68.2
4                 3,670               73.4
1978                1                 3,870                77.4
2                4,050                81.0
3                4,210                84.2
4                4,360                87.2
1979                1                 4,500                90.0
2                4,640                92.8
3                4,770                95.4
4                4,890                97.8
1980                1                 4,950                99.0
2                5,000               100.0
EMENA/IC & DFC Division
January 1975



ANNEX 3"
Page 1
ISRAEL: Education and Training System
The School System
1.        Responsibility for the school system is shared between the Ministry
of Education and Culture and a number of municipal and rural district author-
ities. The latter are responsible for the construction and maintenance of the
schools and for recurrent costs other than teachers' salaries. The Ministry
of Education is responsible for the curriculum, inspection, examinations and
selection and appointment of teaching staff. The system comprises pre-kinder-
garten (ages 3 to 4 years), kindergarten (age 5 years), and primary through
secondary schools (grades 1 to 12).
2.        Prior to the adoption of structural reforms in 1968, primary educa-
tion covered grades 1 to 8, and secondary education grades 9 to 12; the re-
form reduced the length of primary education to 6 years, and introduced junior
and senior secondary schools each of 3 years duration. The transition has
been slowed down due to lack of suitable accommodations and was not more than
30% complete at the end of 1974. Attendance is comp(lsory from the age of 5
(kindergarten) to 15 and will be extended to include 16 year olds when the
reform is complete. Tuition is free at the kindergarten and primary levels.
3.        An unusual feature of the Israeli education system is the high pro-
portion of secondary school pupils (65% boys, 35% girls) following technical
courses either in technical secondary schools or in the technical streams of
the new comprehensive secondary schools. A common core of subjects enables
the pupils of both the general and technical secondary schools to sit for the
"Bagrut" examination giving admission to university-level institutions.
Vocational Education and Training
4.        The Department for Vocational Training within the Ministry of Labor
is generally responsible for craft training given to both youths and adults.
Training programs for youth (ages 14 to 16) includes, inter alia, one year
full-time pre-apprenticeship courses, apprenticeship programs (3 to 4 years)
with 1 to 3 days per week in school and industrial school programs providing
both general and technical education and training of 3 to 4 years duration.
Adult craft training courses are organized on either a full-time or part-time
basis. The former normally extend over a period of 3 to 13 months, sufficient
to establish a high level of operative skill in a particular field. Short-term
refresher and up-grading courses are also arranged for workers from industry.
Technician Education and Training
5.        The responsibility for technical training rests mainly with the
Ministry of Labor (adult programs) and to a lesser degree with the Ministry
of Education (youth programs); in both cases, coordination of programs is
effected through the National Institute for Technological Training and Coor-
dination Councils established in each of the training institutions. Two



ANNEX 31
Page 2
methods of training, sometimes combined in the same institution, are current-
ly in operation. A number of technical secondary schools have extended pro-
grams (grades 13 and 14) for qualified students. Students successfully com-
pleting the grade 13 programs are qualified as technicians, those completing
grade 14 level programs are qualified as "practical engineers" (senior tech-
nicians). Alternatively, the student may attend adult courses following com-
pletion of military service. In this case, it is usual for separate one and
two-year full-time courses to be arranged for qualification as 'technician"
and "practical engineer", respectively. As in the case of the extended tech-
nical secondary school, the qualifications may also be obtained by attendance
at part-time courses of two (technician) and four years (practical engineer)
duration. Completion of the several courses requires the preparation of a
technical research project undertaken either in industry or in the school over
a six to twelve month period.
University Education and Training
6.        Authority for this level of education is vested in a Council for
Higher Education created by an Act of Parliament in 1958, with the Minister of
Education and Culture as ex-officio chairman. Seven universities have so far
been established under the 1958 Act. Each institution is given full respon-
sibility within the Act for their academic and administrative affairs up to
the limit: of an approved budget. With respect to the budget, the government
contributes about 40% of the capital development expenditures and 60% is
provided by private sources: the total recurrent budget is provided by the
Jewish Agency. Tuition fees account for 8% to 10% of the recurrent budget.



ISRAEL
Ministry of Labour-Structure of the Vocational Training Department, 1974
Director-General
I
Head of Department
Representative of the                                                  Deputy Head
Ministry of Finance                                                    of Department
PedagogY                                   Youth Training                                Examinations                ;m   E            & Planninzga
Inspection                                                                                                            Project             Budget
Unit
Curriculum                                                                                                                                 Supply
Course
Development
National Institute of
Technical Training
| Regional                                      Regiona I;r  egI                                                                            Rgo0al  Reioa
Superintendent                                Superintenclent                              Superintendent                                 Superintendent
Beer Sheva                                    Haifa                                        Jerusaiem         ll                           Tcl A.vv
[   Directors of                                  Directors of      l                           Directors of                                  Directors of
Centers                                       Centers           l                      [   Centers            l                           Centers
Source: Ministry of Labor -Department of Vocational Training
January 1975                                                                                                                                  World Bank-9528



AMNEX 33
ISRAEL
Population by Age Group and Enrollment by Educational Level, 1973
90 _
80 -
Grades 1-8:   98.3%
/    Ungraded:         1.7%
ZO            ~~100%              /                           100.0%
70-
Population
60J-          70B
E
- _ 50                            NMGae912636
0
0'
40
Ageirnaryer
Source: Ministry of Education
January 1975                                                                                         WVorld Bank-9527



ISRAEL
NATIONAL EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, FY 1963-72
(It_ million)
FY 1963      FY  1967        FY  1969       FY  1971       FY  1972
_jyLe of Expenditure         Amount  %    Amount   %       Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
Recurrent Expenditure
Kindergarden Education    19.4    6       48.3    7       59.9    7      73.1    6      98.1    6
Primary Education         114.9   38    271.0   37       282.4   33    372.9   32    498.0   33
Secondary Education        77.2   25    188.2   26       238.5   28    304.6   26    404.1   26
Higher Education           41.3   14    131.2   18       172.4   20    274.8   24    368.9   24
Other                      53.0   17      85.5   12      101.9   12    131.7   12    163.0   11
Sub-Total              305.8  100    72h.2  100       855.1  100  1,157.1  100  1,532.1  100
Total recurrent
expenditure             305.8   81    72h.2   81       855.1   83  1,157.1   81  1,532.1   80
Capital expenditure          70.3   19    166.1   19       176.5   17    272.6   19    381.6   20
Total expenditure           376.1  100    890.3  100   1,031.6  100  1,h29.7  100  1,913.7  100
Source:  Central Bureau of Statistics, ItStatistical Abstract of Israel, 1974".
January 1975



ANNEX 35
ISRAEL: National Expenditure on Education, by Agency and
Type of Exenditure
(IL million)
FY 1972
Type of' expenditure      Other       Non-      Local        Govern-      Total
profit    autho-       ment
institu-   rities
tions
NATIONAL EXPENDITURE             93.7        873.3     375.4        571.3        1,913.7
ON EDUCATIOIN -
GRAND TOTAL
Current expenditure - total      93.7        665.4    247.5         525.5        1,532.1
Percent by agency - total           6%          44%        16%         34%           1o00%
Administrative expenses in the
public sector                   -           -           9.8        42.1           51.9
Kindergartens                      8.0        29.2      37.6         23.3           98.1
Elementary schcols                            50.3       86.1       361.6          498.0
Secondary schools                 -           84.9      80.8         31.1          196.8
Vocational and agricultural      21.7        128.9       26.5        30.2          207.3
schools
Universities and other institu-   -          339.5       0.7         28.7          368.9
tions of higher education
Adult education, religious       64.0         32.6        6.0         8.4           78.4
institutions and others
Capital formation in fixed        ..         207.9    127.9          45.8          381.6
assets - totaL
Percent by agency - total         ..            54%        34%         12%           100%
Building and construction work    ..         157.5    118.1          39.2          314.8
Machinery and equipment            ..         50.)4       9.8         6.6           66.8
Interest and linkage adjustment               30.1      45.0
on loans for educational
serviccs
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics "Statistical Abstract of Israel 19741'
January 1975



ISRAEL: Projection of Employment by Sectors 1970-1985 (in thouisands)
1975
Projected
Economic Sector                1970              Employ-             Annual       1985
Employ-       %      ment          %    Growth    Projected      %
ment                (Govt.              Rate       Employ-
Projection         1970-1975 ment
1.  Agriculture, Forestry and
Fishing                            99.0      10.1       94.0.       8.0  (-)1.0         85      (  5.6)
2. Industry (mining and manu-
facturing)                       263.3       26.9      340.0      28.9      5.3        631      ( 41.3)
3.  Construction                       82.5        8.4      90.0        7.7     1.8         95      (  6.2)
4.  Transport and Communications       72.0        7A4      86.1        7.3     3.6         98      ( 6.4)
5.  Public Utilities                   20.0       2.0       21.0        1.8     1.1         24      (  1.5)
6. Commerce, Restaurants and
Hotels + Banking & Finan-
cing                              149.0      15.2      183.0      15.6      4.1        215      ( 14.2)
7.  Education                          76.0       7.8       98.0        8.3     5.0        102      ( 6.8)
8.  Health                             40.4       4.1       53.0        4.5     5.6         54      (  3.5)
9.  Other Public & Community
Services                           97.0       9.9      119.0      10.1      4.1        115      ( 7.5)
10.  Private Services                   80.0       8.2       92.0        7.8     2.8        107      (  7.0)
TOTAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT        979.2      100.0      1,176     100.0      3.7      1,526      (100.0)
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics
January 1975



ANNEX 37
Israel: Estimated Requirements of Middle and High Level Technicians (1970-1985)
1970             1970               1985                 Average X
Stock of         Stock Survi-        Stock      Net      Annual
Technicians /1   ving to 1985 12   Required   Demand   Demand
1.  Agriculture               600                  400          1,000        600        i0
2.  Tndustry                8,700                5,200         26,000    20,800      1,400
3. Construction             5,300                3,200          6,000      2,800       190
4. Transportation           4,700                2,800          7,000      4,200       280
5. Public Utilites          1,000                  600          1,000        400        30
6.  Commerce and Banking   10,500                6,300         16,000     9,700        650
7.  Education              33,900               20,200         37,000    16,800      1,120
8.  Health                  9,800                5,800         13,000     7,200        480
9. Other Public and        14,700                8,800         20,000    11,200        750
Comrunity Services
10. Private Services        3,900                2,300          5,000     2,700        180
TOTAL               93,100               55,600        132,000    76,400      5,120
/1 Population and Employment Projections 1970-1975
/2  Assuming an attrition rate of 3.5% p.a.
Sourcer Central Bureau of Statistics
January 1975



ANNEX 38
Israel: Estimated Output of Project Institutions (1980)
Institutions                       Training Places                  Output (double shift)
Existing    Added    Total      Existing    Added    Total
Vocational Training
Centers
Tel Arza (Jerusalem)             165         210      375         220        235       445
Kiryat Sprinzak (Haifa)          180         220      400         270        330       600
Kiryat Elamelaka !1(Tel Aviv)    nil         210      210         nil        315       315
Holon (Tel Aviv Region)          165         210      375         220        235
Sub-Total              510        850    1,36          710       1,115    1,825
Technical Institutes
Beer Sheva                       300 ./    280        580         225        215       440
Technician (Haifa)             1,100         nil    l,100         775        nil       775
ORT (Jerusalem) i/               nil         480      480         nil        415       415
Sub-Total            1,400       760     2,160      1,000        630    1,630
j Existing accommodations being reconstructed for use under project.
/ Accommodations nearing completion: part equipment to be supplied under project.
3/ Not including about 250 places in rented temporary facilities.
Source: Ministry of Labor "Projects for Development", Part B.
January 1975



ANNEX 39
ISRAEL
Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
Israeli £                    US $                %  of
Iocal   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Totql   Total
-(------------------( millions  ----------------
Construction            27.5     6.5       34.°       4.6      1.1       5.7    54.8
Acpdemic &
Commiunl ]
Facilities
Site Development         3.7     0.4        4.1       0.6     0.1        0.7     6.7
Cons. Architects'        4.4     0.?        4.6       0.7      o.oL"     0.7     6.7
Services
Sub-Totpl             35.6     7.1      42.7        5.9     1.2        7.1    66.2
Furniture                2.4     1.0        3.h       0.4      0.2       o.6     5.8
Equipment                0.8    15.4       16.2       0.2      2.5       2.7    26.0
Totnl Project         38.8    23.5      62.3        6.5     3-9       10.4   100.0
Cost excluding
Contingenc:ies
Contingencies           24.5     7.8       32.3       4.1     1.3        5.4    51.9
Totpl Project Cost      63.3    31.3       94.6      10.6     5.2       15.8
I/ About US$40,000.
EMENTA/Education and Manpower Development Division
danuar,n 1975



ISRAEL - VOCATIONAL/TECHNICAL TBLINING COMPIT311UT
Contingency Allowances (US$ thousands - rounded)
Site        Professional
Construction      Development       Services        Furniture         Equipment              total
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local Foreign   Totai
Percentage of Local/
Foreign                      81%    19%      92%    1L%       95%       5%     70°      30%       5%      95%
Baseline Cost               4591.o   1076.9  620.4   69.0    724.6    38.2  396.8    170.0   134.5  2555.0  6467.3  3909.1 10376.
Unforeseen physical
increase    in %             10%    10%      10%     10%      10%       10%     5%       5%       5%       5%        9.6%    6.5%    8.
in US$         459.1.   107,7   62.0    6.9       72.5      3.8   19.8       8.5      6.7   127.8   620.1   254.7   874.8
Sub-total                   5050.1   1184.   682.1   75.9    797.1    42.0  i16.6    178.5   L41.2  2682.8  7087.4  4163.0 11251.2
Price Increase in %           f6%    37.5%   31%t    31        39%       24y      20y%    20%    20y%      20%       48.8%   .25.2%   40.1
in US$     2828.1    444.0  211.6   23.5    310.9    10.0   83.3          35.7    26.8   537.2  3460.7  1050.4  4511.
Total Contingencies         3287.2    551.   273.6   30.4    383.4    13.8  103.1         44.2    33.5   665.0  408o.8  1305.]  5385.
Total Project Cost          7878.2   1628.   894.0   99.4   1108.0    52.0  499.9    214.2   168.0  3220.0 10548.1  5214.2 15762.
EMEMA/Education and Manpower Development Division
January 1975



ANI4EX 41
D;RAE L
Estimated Recurrent Expenditure for the Project Institutions
(Israeli Pounds)
FY  1979
Student         Cost per       Recurrent
Institute                           Places           Student        Expenditure
Place i/
(Rounded)
Vocational Training Centers               1,360           7,700          lO,472,000
Technical Institutes                      2,160       |  ll,OOO          23,760,0o0
Total                                3,520                          34,232,000
j   Includes subsidies and family and travel allowances.
2   Weighted average of day and evening programs for practical engineers and techniciz
2/  About 2.1% of estimated recurrent expenditure on education.
Source: M.nistry of Labor "Projects for Development", Part B.
January 1975



ANNEX 42
ISRAEL
Vocationn1/TechnicRl Training Component
Estimpted Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Semester      Accumul]ted    As % of       Undisbursed   As % of
FY 1976         Disbursement  Disbursements   loan          Balanced       loan
tst Semester            -             _            _
2nd Semester          .100            .100        2.0%          4.900          98.0%
FY 1977
1st Semester          .355            .455        9.1%         4.545          90.9%
2nd Semester          .535            .990       19.8%         4.010          80.2%
FY 1978
1st Semester         1.500           2.h9C      49.8%          2.510          50.2%
2nd Semester         2.100           4.59o      91.8%            .41o          8.2%
FY 1979
1st Semester          .310           4.900      98.0%            .100          2.0%
2nd Semester          .100           5.000     100.0%             -             -
Closing Date of June 30, 1979.
EMENA/Education and Manpower Development Division
January 1975



ANNEx 41
ISRAEL: VOUTIONAL/TCYCRSCAL TRAINING CSOWL?SHSf
lot YEAR W                         Rod YEaR1                                   3rd YEAR if                                    ii4i YEAR A7
1 2314   5617  a9 1 1011 2            13i 4    15116i 7    LB 9    202Z122  23  2425  2627  2a29  30 31 32331 4 5  36  37  3 -39   40D42                 43 4445 4647  48
1. 2ELSIGN & CONST.RUCTION
1. P-oPa-  Sc-lo Kits(suti_
2. Ot-itip.l App-1va
3. T-chniosi Specs & Wtiokiog
Drawings
4. Qusutity Suft-
5. Proq.ahify C--t-scc
6. Dod Pcrtid4o
7. F-I-oaion & A-ads
9. Goacates P-iod &
Fi-ac   Accuts--_ 
b)  Daolk/ICB Pro...dursa
1. P-sP-ctia  Draft Did Ott-
2. Bank Do-inwApp--lt 
3. Ad-tniis & Not~ificaion to
4. Sari RisvioAppr-la of Cont-tis 
II. RDUIPDIDRT PRSCDDEaiRT
1.  P-ap-rttc Draft Bid A-o-saon
and P-IoDi-scy Equip-et Lists
3.  ft.psr-U.. PiunD Bid Dot,-ota
nodEquipan-  List  Socl.dicSg
D.ok BraDos
4.  Ad-sttse & fttii-i-atoo   tn Rsdsa-
5.  BDd P-riod
6.  E-iuation 6 A-ads                                                                                                                  ...
7.  Bank Re-SewApp-1vat
B.  fabri-stiost, D.li-sfi.. and Dust.D-
9.  G-at.sts  Psni.d & FinaDiso Aicon-
LID. ELi_ doCTWiOWR  Ti DR EXPIRITED BY RYPEhidIR12N         A6.                                                                               A                                     A
TSROOS   Yttsoiu   Scnos)1.1.                                             Db).                        .3.& Prtop...              (13.7)                           C   1D-io  Of
Sis-ap)                                        -f Cosnscin                                                     Cssrtto 
1.1 Fnt  dat. of Loon SiRitt.
D. PcequoDifin-tio   Crit-cia &Procd-r  for Cnnt-at-r.
2. Notis =  & id-nti -n-snt
3. SmpDr Oors of Ctont-t
4. in-era Conditi.na of Did
butte    EMEN~A/EdctatDon  aM Plapos   D-ripopnt Diwleine
JOstuoO   ,975



IBRD -11483
3EO  FEBRUARY 1975
ISRAE,                                                2 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT    LEBANON.)
VOCATIONAL/TECHNICAL INSTITUItIONS                                  S Y R I A
AA    TECHNICAt/PRACTICAL ENGINEERING                        Se0        (
MB    VOCATIONAL CENTERS                               -
DEVELOPMENTZOlN'ES                fel                      (
Z /ONE A"                         HAI FAI_2k>
ZEEZONE "B'                     A=
[>7  OThER ZONES                                  Q                  \
0 0  CITIES AND TOWNS
RIVERS                                      -
---  INTERNATIONAL sOLUNDARIES                                  Boo3
iNet-vL  .  ' . 
TEL AVIV-JAFFAf"v  IX                             /
-372   e,              t. H i.~~~~~-4 (Kirly,i H-Mlakal\                              20
t              . ~~~~~Ltd o      
L0     (
Aeo  0YtC °1102r0000 LJ                            J O  R  D   A   N
\                    ;; f:   -        2         t&nE~    B-
AehqiovIO       -         =            A-3 
/                         / ; A r        d     '-o
/7               1eaHiaF                       00-, jD  v   
_3no~ ~~~~~~e   be-                                      j. '1 -
.    N E G E V  
\~~~~~~~~~~ !
.            |        SEmon O                 ,/                         40         E0 Y~h.
s  X                   X                       ewL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IES
()   \             /                    ~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~TUiRKEY.-.,
_310               0            \                                                             3(>, ,,_;__   _
\   !          C5'PF4<JS.'-cX   i    5~~~YRIA  !
x ;)   \   /       M e rf ^ { e l r a t S - n} i   t I RAQ
aa                              t, JORDAN 
oOo
G EG \I f o  fe0REPUB                     SAUDI ARABIA
1001000  ,  Io YehO      EGYTL
(1  0I        0        00        6
EGY     OBETPT 
311,~ ~ ~ ~ 1.00U0,.-1,r,00~1               0



