CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1116 IS
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
DATED MAY 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1116 IS
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
DATED MAY 30, 1975


﻿5
with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
to achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b)   IDBI undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, any
sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby IDBI shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and IDBI, including, in the case
of any sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the case of
any investment, the right of IDBI to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry
out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and to
maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself,
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plant and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that
(1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound industrial and business practices; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder
to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or IDBI
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend
or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds
of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with IDBI.
Section 2.05. IDBI shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02(a) of the Loan
Agreement and shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, IDBI shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. IDBI shall take all action necessary to maintain its corporate
existence and the right to carry on its operations and shall acquire, maintain and


﻿6
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) IDBI shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part A of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of IDBI. IDBI shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)   IDBI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon
as available but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by the said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of IDBI
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, IDBI shall not make
any loans or advances to, or any investments in, any subsidiary if at that time
or as a result thereof the total of all loans, advances and investments by IDBI
to or in its subsidiaries and not repaid would exceed twenty percent (20%) of
the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of IDBI.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
IDBI, IDBI shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after
the incurring of any such debt, the consolidated debt of IDBI and of all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five times the
consolidated capital and surplus of IDBI and of all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "debt" means any debt incurred by IDBI or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿7
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan contract
or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on the
date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement,
and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into, but shall
be counted only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(iii)       Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Israeli Pounds debt payable in. foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by IDBI for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(iv)        "Consolidated debt of IDBI and of all its subsidiaries" means
the total amount of debt of IDBI and of all subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by IDBI to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to IDBI or to any other subsidiary and also excluding
any increment to the amount of any debt expressed in Israeli
pounds but payable in or linked to a foreign currency arising
as a result of an alteration in the rate of exchange between Israeli
pounds and such foreign currency and any increment to the
amount of any debt arising from the linkage thereof to the cost
of living index, to the extent that IDBI is entitled to receive
compensation from the Borrower for such incremental debt.
(v)         "Consolidated  capital and surplus of IDBI and of all its
subsidiaries" means the total unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus
and free reserves of IDBI and of all subsidiaries after excluding
therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests of
IDBI in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in IDBI or in any
other subsidiary.
(b)   If the debt/equity ratio prescribed in paragraph (a) of this Section
3.03 shall, for reasons beyond IDBI's control, be exceeded, IDBI shall promptly
take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.
Section 3.04. IDBI shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall
be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the
0


﻿8
rates of exchange between the currencies (including Israeli Pounds) used in its
operations.
Section 3.05. IDBI shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of IDBI which would materially affect IDBI's
ability to meet its financial obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation; Information
Section 4.01. (a) IDBI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange vie Vs
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   IDBI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by IDBI of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   IDBI shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the records
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any other documents relevant
to the Project.
ARTICLE V
Amendment of Prior
Loan Agreements
Section 5.01. Section 3.03 of the Prior Loan Agreements is hereby amended
by the substitution of the words "five times" in place of the word "twice" prior
to the words "the aggregate amount of the paid-up share capital of the Borrower
together with its reserve funds for the time being."
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspenson
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿9
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
IDBI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify IDBI of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
For IDBI:
Industrial Development Bank of Israel
Limited
9 Ahad Haam Street
Tel Aviv
Israel
Cable address:
MOSLETAAS
Tel Aviv
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of IDBI may be taken or executed by such person or persons as IDBI shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. IDBI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of IDBI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by IDBI pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Aliddle East and North Africa
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF
ISRAEL LIMITED
By /s/ Simcha Dinitz
Authorized Representative


