Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6938
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
September 15, 1987
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
Projects Department
Transportation Division
Thi dcument hm a resicted dstbdioen and may be used by relpints oly tn the perfornman  of
tbehi ffimid dude. Its _ontest may an  oherwe be disclosed witou Wodrd Bank authorkaon.



YOR OffMICL UE OW,
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
opewate vAhtoin
September 15, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tanzania Fifth Highway Project
(Credit 876-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Tanzania Fifth Highway Project (Credit 876-TA)" prepared
by the Eastern an' Southern Africa Regional Office. Further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
.~~~~~~~~~
Attachment
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclo  without Wodld lank authowluton.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......... .....               *  ..e *. 1
Basic Data      Seti
Evaiuation Summary ............... ............     ................. ...  iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IT.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AMD APPRAISAL..o..           3
III.   P1JBCT IMPLEMENTATION AND COS                T.;                 6
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOP    LOMPM....N.....T..     14
Vo  ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION. .             UT. .o .. ... ....         15
VI *  CONCLUSIONS.L               U     S    I    OS*.*. .  *.. ..     *   . .   ...  17.*
ANNEX     Performance of the Fourth Highway (Maintenance)
Project (Credit 507-TA) .............. .......   . ... .. .   20
TABLES
1.   Details of Technical Assistance and Training Staff.......       21
2,  Training at Morogoro Training Sch oool......,                    22
3.   Equipment Procurement Schedule..h...............e......         23
4.   Planned and Actual Accomplishments (km) - Regravelling
& Rehabilitation            ...... .....                     24
5.   Planned and Actual Project Implementatiou.. 0.04i. on6000    25
6.   Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs..........       26
7.   Road Maintenance Expenditures (FY1979/80-FY1986-87)......    27
8.   Road Inventory Condition and Traffic Volumes -
Comparison Between 1977 and 1985.......................      28
MAP       IBRD 13777
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the
Fifth Highway Project (Credit 876-TA) for which a Credit Agreement in the
amount of US$20.5 million was signed on March 3, 1979. The Credit became
effective on December 3, 1980 and was closed on December 31, 1985 after an
extension of one year. The total amount disbursed was US$18.30 million and
the remaining US$2.20 million was cancelled. This is the sixth project in
the highway subsector, which the Bank Group has assisted in Tanzania and
addresses the country's needs in road maintenance.
The PCR was prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Department, Transportation Division, on the basis of information contained
in tne Staff Appraisal Report, a review of Bank files including supervision
and progress reports and information collected on a mission during January
1987.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department but the project was not audited by OED. The draft
report was sent to the borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- ii -
TANZANIA                         Page 1 of 2
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CPEDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIt DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal     Actual or Current
Item                                      Estimate           Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)          25.71            22.54
Overrun (Underrun) (%)                      -               (13)
Credit Amount (US$ million)               2n.50            20.50
Disbursed                               -              18.30
Cancelled                               -              2.20
Repaid to Dec. 31, 1986                 -                -
Outstanding to Dec. 31, 1986            -              18.30
Project Completion Date              06/30/84         12/85
Proportion Completed by:
Appraisal Completion Date (2)         -                 77
Actual Completion Date (Z)                             89
Proportion of Time Overrun (X)          -                27
Economic Rate of Return (2)             70                10
Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87
i)    Estimate             0.50  5.10 10.20 14.30 19.00 20.50 20.50 20.50
(ii)   Actual               -    0.04  2.22 10.43 15.55 15.95 17.89 18.30
(iii)  Actual as X of (i)  -      -    21    72    81    77    87    89
Date of Final Disbursement: July 21, 1986.
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                                  Origir.al Plan  Actual
First Mention in Files or Time Table   -              12/73
Government's Application                 -            06/29/77
Appraisal                              10/77          04/78
Negotiations                             -            11/30178
Board Approval                        07/78           01/16/79
Credit Agreement Date                    -            03/02/79
Effectiveness Date                    04/30/79        12/03/80
Closing Date                           12/31/84       12/31/85
Borrower                               Inited Re.-blic of Tanzania
Executing Agency                      Ministry of Communications and Works
Fiscal Year                           July 1   June 30
Follow-on Project Name                Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project
Credit Number                           1688-TA
Amount (US$ million)                    50.0
Credit Agreement Date                  June 25, 1986



- {ii ^
Pane 2 of 2
BASIC DATA SHEET
MISSION DATA
Month/    No. of    No. of      Staff     Date of
Mission               Year      Weeks     Persons    Weeks      Report
Identification       03172       0.4        2         0.8       04/25/72 1i
preparation          06/77       1.4        1          1.4      12198177
Preparation          02/78       0.5        1         0.5       No Report
Appraisal            04/78       3.0        3          9.0      08/24/78
5.3                 11.7
Supervision          03.79       2.5        2         5.0       04/13/79
Supervision          06/79       1.7        1         1.7       06/26179
Supervision          03/80       1.7        4         6.8       04122/80
Supervision          06/80       0.5        1         0.5       07/15/80
Supervisior          11/80       1.0        1          1.0      No Report
Supervision          09/81       1.3        1         1.3       11/17/81
Supervision          03/82       1.0        1         1.0       05/19/82
Supervision          03/83       1.0        4         4.0       05/13/83
Supervision          12/83       1.0        1         1.0       02/15/84
Supervision          06/84       1.0        1          1.0      08/02/84
Supervision          11/84       1.0        1         1.0       01/15/85
Supervision          06/85       1.0        1         1.0       06124185
14.7                 25.3
l/ Identified at the same tfime as the Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project
(Credit 507-TA).
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency                          Tanzania Shilling (TShs)
Appraisal Year Average (1978)             US$ 1 - TShs  8.00
Intervening Years Average (1979-84)       US$ 1 - TShs  9.50
Ccmpletion Year Average (1985)            US$ 1 - TShs 16.42
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COMWORKS                       Ministry of Communications and Works
ICB                             International Competitive Bidding
LCB                  -          Local Competitive Bidding
PCR                             Project Completion Report
SAR                  -          Staff Appraisal Report
ThRM                            Trunk Road Maintenance
USAID                           United States Agency for
International Development
VOC                  -          Vehicle Operating Cost



- lv -
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Fifth Highway Project constituted the second of a two-phase
offott to establish a trunk road maintenance organisation in the country. The
first phase was implemented under the Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project
(Credit 507-TA) which was closed on December 31, 1982. A brief account of the
project performance, which was found to be unsatisfactory, is given in the
Annex to this report.
The Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects were the outcome of the
'Tanzania Highway Maintenance and Organization' study which was carried out in
1972 by consultants financed by the United States Agency for International
Development. The Association assisted the Government in reviewing the reports
at various stages of the study. The Government's formal request for financing
the Fifth Highway Project was made to the Association in June 1977. The
request included a draft project proposal and timetable to complete project
preparation which was accomplished with assistance of technical staff financed
under the earlier project. The Association appraisal took place in April 1978
(paras. 2.05-2.08).
Obsectives
The Fifth Highway Project, along with the immediately preceding
Fourth Highway Project, changed the focus of Bank Group lending for highways
in Tanza-sia from investments in highway construction to improvements in high-
way maintenance and institutional building. The Fifth Highway Project
included the establishment of routine maintoenance capability for about 5,100
km of primary roads in the nort-tern half of the country, the rehabilitation
and regravelling of about 2,040 km of trunk roads, procurement of road mainte-
nance and rehabilitation equipment, construction of road maintenance camps,
workshops, and housing and technical assistance and tra&ning (para. 2.11).
Implementation Experience
Although the Credit Agreement was signed on March 2, 1979, it was
not declared effective until December 3, 1980. The delay occurred as a result
of disagreement between the Association and Government over the selection of
three key advisors to the Ministry of Communications and Works, which was a
condition of Credit effectiveness. The Government attempted to recruit them
on an individual basis, but the Association urged selection of a consulting
firm to provide two key advisors (paras. 3.01-3.05).



Twelve advisors, including one key advisor, were appointed on an
individual basis. Two key advisors were provided by a consulting firm. They
all arrived separately over a period of two years. Thus, from the beginning
it was difficult to adopt a coordinated approach to strengthening trunk road
maintenance. At the advice of successive Association supervision missions,
attempts were made by the key advisor to the Senior Maintenance Engineer to
coordinate and direct the work of all technical assistance advisors, but this
advice was not effective. The effectiveness of technical assistance was also
undermined by the inadequate attention paid by the Government to providing
housing, office facilities, and transport (paras. 3.06-3.12).
The procurement of equipment, vehicles, and spares was affected by
initial delay due to differences of views between the Government and the
Association over the sufficiency of notification for ICB. When it was
resolved and delivery was due, the suspension of disbursements for all proj-
ects in the country by the Association in 1983 and 1984 caused further delays
and most of the items of equipment did not arrive on site until late 1984
(paras. 3.20-3.22).
Results
The project fell short of completing the physical objectives and
some of the works carried out have fallen into disrepair due mainly to the
poor quality of the original works. Overall, the ERR dropped from an apprai-
sal value of 70X to about lOX. However, the trunk road maintenance organiza-
tion has been established in each of the 10 regions covered by the project and
budget alloca.tions for road maintenance have been stepped up to satisfactory
levels. Witha the availability of more engineers trained under the project and
Improvement in training of technicians and field personnel which is being
continued under the ongoing Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project (Credit
1688-TA), the quality of maintenance works is slowly improving (para. 5.06).
Sustainability
The project only achieved partial sustainability. Maintenance of
roads has been instituted but the quality of the work still does not keep the
roads in acceptable condition (para. 3.27). Training at the highway
authority's facilities improved but local personnel were not yet able to take
over as instructors at the end of the program (para. 3.17).
Findints and Lessons
A number of lessons have been learned from the project. First, It
would have been preferable to reduce the scope of the project when it was
realized late in 1984 that the Government could not maintain the entire trunk
road network. Better planning for less ambitious but critical maintenance
operations could have produced much better results. Second, there are limita-
tions to the effectiveness of technical assistance to strengthen road mainte-
nance operations in the field. Many of the critical road maintenance tasks
are simple technologically and the success of execution of these tasks depends
very much on close field supervision, quality of leadership in the field, and



- vi -
a better maero economic environment; local resources provide the best means to
develop andi sustain a road maintenance capability. Third, the project illus-
trated the Government's ambivalent attitude to expatriate technical assistance
staff. On the, one hand, the Government recognized the noed for technical
assistance, but on the other, it was concerned with the high costs and the
burden of administering a large number of expatriates. Both Government and
the Associatior. should closely monitor performance of technical assistance
staff in order to identify as early as possible the constraints to their
effectiveness. Fourth, the project demonstrates the success of formal train-
ing programs at education and training institutions as opposed to counterpart
training in the work place (paras. 6.G6-6.08).
Finally, the project points to the need to develop the local con-
tracting industry to share the responsibility for maintaining the country's
road network. The lessons learned were applied in the design of the Sixth
Highway (Rehabilitation) Project (para. 6.09).



- I -
TANZANIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
INTRODUCTION
1.01     Tanzania is a large country (945,000 kW2) with a widely dispersed
population (19.8 million) and sharply contrasting terrain (0-19,340 ft
above sea level). This combination makes the transport system a complex
one with transport movements over long distances an important
characteristic. Additional demands by its land locked neighbours for
transit through the country contribute to making the matntenance and
operation of the transport system more difficult. Overall, roads are the
predominant transport mode with the rail system catering mainly to
import/export traffic.
1.02     The Bank Group involvement in the transport sector began in 1955
when a loan was made to the East African Comnunity for a railway project.
Assistance in the highways subsector did not begin until 1964, two years
after Tanzania's independence. Bank Group assistance was initially
directed towards investments in new roads. In the late sixties with the
departure of expatriate engineers and later, the indigenous engineers of
Asian origin, the deterioration of the road network due to inadequate road
maintenance became evident. Bank Group strategy then shifted towards
institution building, training, and assistance to strengthen the road
maintenance organizatior.. In all, the Bank Group financed seven projects
in the highway sub-sector totalling US$156.7 million including the ongoing
Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project (Credit 1688-TA, 1986).
1.03     When the Credit Agreement for the Fifth Highway Project (Credit
876-TA, US$20.5 million, 1979), the subject of this Project Completion
Report (PCR), was signed on March 2, 1979, the executing agency was the
Ministry of Works. In July 1984, the Ministry of Works was merged with the
Ministry of Communications and Transport to form a single Ministry of
Communications and Works (COMWORKS). Hereafter, reference is made only to
COMWORKS.
1.04     The COMWORKS is headquartered in Dar-es-Salaam, the capital, and
is primarily responsible for the administration of the trunk road system.
COM11ORKS has divided the country into 20 regions for Trunk Road Maintenance
(TAM). The project aimed at improving road maintenance operations by
establishing TRM organizations in each of the 10 regions located in the
northern half of the country. The 10 regions in the southern half of the
country were covered by a similar project, the Fourth Highway (Maintenance)
Project (Credit 507-TA, US$10.2 million, 1974) which closed on December 31,
1982.
1.05     The project included routine road maintenance of about 5,110 kms
and the rehabilitation and regravelling of about 2,040 kas of trunk roads;
the construction and improvement of roa6 maintenance campst workshops, and
offices; the procurement of workshop equipment and equipment, spare parts,



- 2 -
and materials for road maintenance; a pilot program for regional roads
maintenance, training of engineers, and road maintenance field personnel;
and technical assistance to COMWORKS. The financing of the project was
shared between the Government (201) and the Association (80X). There were
no cofinanciers.
1.06     The sources of information on which the PCR was based are listed
belows
1.     Bank Project Files - Fifth Highway Project (Credit 876-TA).
2.     Appraisal Report dated December 27, 1978 and Credit
Agreement of March 2, 1979.
3.     Consultants Study on Tanzania Highway Maintenance and
Organization - Inception Report of March 16, 1972, Draft
Final Report (Summary) of March 1972, and Final Report
(Vols. I, II, ane III) of August 1, 1972.
4.     Technical Assistance Consultants and COMWORKS Quarterly
Progress Reports.
5.     Tanzania - Transport Sector Memorandum (Vols. I and II),
May 17, 1982.
6.     The World Bank Report No. 5085 on Institutional Development
in Africat A review of World Bank Project Experience (Vols.
I and II), May 17, 1984.
7.    Final Report, Feasibility Study and Road Maintenance
Program, TANZAM Highway, Consultants, May 1983 in three
volumes.
8.     Final Report, Detailed Engineering Study, Rehabilitation of
the TANZAM Highway, Consultants, May 1983 in three volumes.
9.     Final Report, Three-Year Road Regravelling & Rehabilitation
Program, Consultants, January 1986 in four volumes.
10.    Final Report, Two-Year Training Program, Training Institute
Morogoro, Consultants, October 1986.
11.    Administrative Report on the Fifth Highway Project, Trunk
Road Maintenance Section, Ministry of Communications and
Works, undated.
12.    Final Financial Statement, Trunk Road Maintenance Section,
Ministry of Communications and Works, undated.



II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL
Origin
2.01     The Fifth Highway Project represents the second of a two-phase
attempt to establish a country-wide trunk road maintenance organization.
The first phase, covering the trunk roads located in the southern half of
the country was implemented under the Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project.
Both projects have their origin in the Highway Maintenance and Organization
Study by consultants, financed by the United States International
Development Agency (USAID) and completed satisfactorily in early 1972.
2.07.    The Highway Maintenance and Organization Study made
recommendations for (i) the improvement of road maintenance; (ii) the
reorganization of COMWORKS to take over the administration of the regional
and district road networks from the regional governments in addition to the
trunk road network; and (iii) a five-year road rehabilitation and
maintenance program (1972-76). The Association assisted the Government by
reviewing and commenting on study reports emphasizing particularly the
institutional aspects. The findings of the study in respect to the
institutional arrangements were not consistent with the Government's
decentralization policy which called for all roads to be administered by
the regional governments. In the end, however, it was agreed with the
Association that the administration of the trunk road network including
responsibility for execution of trunk road meintenance would be retained by
COMWORKS (Para 2.06).
Preparation
2.03     The preparatory work essentially related to updating the earlic-
work done for the Fourth Highway Project. In May 1977, the Association
pre-appraisal mission found that project preparation had not been
adequately done and recommended the need to hire consultants to assist
COMWORKS. The Association agreed with COMWORKS for the work to be carried
out by consultents already providing technical assistance to implement the
ongoing Fourth Highway Project. On June 29, 1977, based on discussions
with the Association's pre-appraisal mission, COMWORKS dispatched a draft
project proposal indicating in outline the project components and a time-
table to complete project preparation by the end of 1977.
2.04     However, the terms of reference for the consultants to assist
COMWORKS in project preparation were not finalized until February 1978.
Work commenced soon afterwards and was completed satisfactorily in May
1978. The Association appraisal took place in April 1978 based on COMWORKS
project proposal of June 29, 1977 and the availability in the field of the
consultants findings.
Appraisal
2.05     The project as appraised followed substantially COMWORKS project
proposal which identified most of the deficiencies impeding COMWORKS
efforts to strengthen its administration, and develop and maintain the
country's trunk road network. However, COMWORKS proposal to include new



-4-
construction was not accepted. But, it was agreed that a future project
would include an element of new construction and, at the initiative of the
Association, it was decided to establish a transport planning unit in the
then Ministry of Transport to prepare a National Transport Plan covering
all transport modes.
2.06     There were three main issues during appraisal.  First, the
Association was concerned that the existing arrangements for the regional
authorities to carry out trunk road maintenance works were not satisfactory
and that COMNORKS should be responsible for the actual execution of road
maintenance works in addition to its administrative responsibility.
Second, there was an acute shortage of trained staff at all levels of the
work force and the implementation of a formal training program was urgently
required if the project results were to be sustained afterwards. Third,
since in the near term, there was a need to continue to depend on
expatriate technical staff to assist COMWORKS, the Government had to
restore its capability to recruit and employ such staff and to retain them
until local counterparts were able to take over. The latter had been an
issue between Government and Association under the Fourth Highway Project.
2.07     The appraisal was smooth and there was complete accord between
Government and the Association. The issues raised at the decision meeting
by the appraisal mission were confined to actions to be taken by Government
to avoid the delays which had occurred in the start-up of the Fourth
Highway Project and enable smoother Implementation. These actions were to
be conditions of Board Presentation and comprised the following:
i)    appointment of key COMWORKS staff for proper execution of
the ongoing project (later made a condition of
effectiveness);
(4i)   implementation of proposed reorgenization of the COMWORKS
and clarification of relationships with the regional
governments in respect of trunk road maintenance;
(iii) assignment of an appropriate role to the Trunk Road
Maintenance Organizations in the selection and recruitment
of trainees;
(iv)   appointment of three key technical experts to assist in
carrying out activities prior to project execution (later
made a condition of effectiveness); and
(v)    presentation of a plan by Government to provide adequate
housing for technical assistance staff.
In addition, the Association requsred that some provisions be made in the
project to assist the regional governments in the maintenance of the
regional and district road networks.
2.08     The project aimed at force account execution of all road
maintenance works including periodic and rehabilitation works. The
appraisal mission did not consider the need for developing the local
contracting industry or for road maintenance operations by contract as a



-5-
viable alternative. The overriding factor was Government's express policy
of favoring the expansion of Government Involvement in all sectors
including the construction sector.
Targets and goals
2.09     The ultimate goal was to establish and operate an organization to
plan, manage, and carry out the maintenance of the trunk road network to
acceptable standards. The successive project targets were to be as
follows:
(i)    to divest the regional government of responsibility for
execution of trunk road maintenance (TRM) and to pass
direct responsibility to COMWORKS;
(li)   to establish a TRM organization in each of the 10 regions
covered by the project headed by a Resident Engineer; and
(iii)  to furnish each Resident Engineer with offices, camps,
workshops, equipment and vehicles, and spare parts and
materials to enable him to execute an agreed road
maintenance and rehabilitation program.
2.10     The main project objectives were to prevent the deterioration of
the trunk road network and protect capita4 investments with a view to
eliminating transport as a constraint to economic growth.
Prolect Description
2.11     The project, as finally agreed between the Government and
Association, consisted of a three-year road maintenance program and
included:
M)    the establishment of routine maintenance capability for
about 5,110 kms of trunk roads;
(ii)   the rehabilitation and regravelling of about 2040 kms of
trunk roads;
(iii)  the procurement of road maintenance and rehabilitation
equipment including an initial stock of spare parts, tools,
and materials;
(iv)   the construction of road maintenance camps, workshops, and
housing for technical assistance staff;
(v)    a pilot program for regional roads maintenance; and
(v)    technical assistance and training.
2.12     The project was scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1984.



-6-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Start Up
3.01     Project start-up was delayed by one and a half years.  The Credit
Agreement was signed on March 2, 1979 but the closing date for Credit
effectiveness was deferred five times until December 3, 1980. The delay
was caused by the non-compliance by the Government of the two conditions of
Credit effectiveness:
(i)    the advisors to the Maintenance Management Engineer, the
Maintenance Administrator, and the Plant and Procurement
Engineer should be in post; and
(ii)   COMWORKS executive staff, having qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, should be in
post for the positions of Maintenance Management Engineer,
Maintenance Administrator, Plant and Procurement Engineer,
Mechanical Supervisor, a Trunk Road Maintenance
Superintendent, and a Roadworks Superintendent.
3.02     By end-July 1979, COMWORKS had submitted for the approval of the
Association, the CVs of the three key advisors and the six local staff.
COMWORKS selected candidates for the advisors' positions from among
responses to advertisement in the local daily newspaper and requests made
to embassies and legations of foreign countries in Dar-es-Salaam as well as
advertisements by Tarnzanian embassies abroad. But, the Association was
concerned that most applicants were from one country and recommended that
attempts be made for recruitment from a wider spectrum of countries.
3.03     Despite COMWORKS protests that it genuinely made efforts to
recruit staff internationally, the Association maintained that further
attempts should be made. Although the issue was not raised expressly, it
was clear that the Association hoped that COMWORKS would select a
consulting firm to provide the required technical assistance personnel
rather than the course adopted by COMWORKS to recruit individuals.
3.04     The Association did not respond positively to COMWORKS request for
approval of the three key advisors from one country. While admitting that
the candidates were satisfactory, the Association continued to urge
COMWORKS to take fresh steps at recruitment. Finally, on October 23, 1979,
three months after its original submissions, COMWORKS agreed to invite
consulting firms to submit proposals for the provision of two of the three
key advisors. The individual candidate for the third advisor position
(advisor to the plant and equipment engineer) was accepted by the
Association. COMWORKS indicated in its letter to the Association that it
was adopting this course at the advice and recommendation of the
Association.
3.05     Much valuable time was thus lost.  The process of selection of a
consulting finm took nearly six months. Four firms were invited to submit
proposals. It took a further six months before the two advisors took their
posts. The original nominee for the post of advisor to the Road
Maintenance Administrator was not available and about 3 months elapsed



-7-
before another suitable candidate was found. In the meantime, the terminal
date for Credit effectiveness was deferred for the fifth time. The three
key advisors were finally appointed by the end of November 1980. Although,
two of them did not take up their posts until early 1981, the Credit was
declared effective on December 3, 1980.
Technical Assistance
3.06     The technical assistance specialists consisted of two groups; one
group recruited individually comprising 12 advisors including one key
advisor and a second group of 2 key advisors provided by a consultihg firm
selected after competition in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. In
all, 18 advisory positions were to have been established under the project
- 5 advisors (one each to the Maintenance Management Engineer, Maintenance
Administrator, Plant and Procurement Engineer, dechan1.al Supervisor, and
the Bridge and Culvert Superintendent), 5 advisors to the Trunk Road
Maintenance Superintendents, 5 advisors to Equipment Service Managers, and
3 advisors to the Roadworks Superintendents. Four positions of the 18
advisory positions were not filled. During project implementation, the
Association agreed to the recruitment of an advisor to the Materials
Engineer. Details of technical staff are given in Table 1.
3.07     One advisor was in place in late 1979 and 5 others in late 1980.
One key advisor (the advisor to the plant and equipment engineer), was also
in place in late 1980 but the other two key advisors were not in place
until the beginning of 1981. The balance of technical assistance staff
took their positions between 1982 and 1984. Thus, from the beginning it
was difficult to adopt a coordinated approach to strengthening trunk road
maintenance. Each one of the technical assistance staff did his work his
own way and although during the last three years of the project (1983-85),
at the advice of successive Association's supervision missions, attempts
were made by the key advisor to the Senior Maintenance Engineer to
coordinate and direct the work of all the advisors, it was too little too
late. The individual advisors were employed under disparate terms and
salaries and enjoyed less benefits than the advisors supplied by the
consultants. All contracts with the individual advisors were administtired
by the Government and this meant that salaries were paid late, housing was
not available on arrival, and much of their time was spent chasing
administrators for what was due to them. Consequently, their morale was
seriously affected and performance suffered.
3.08     A serious complaint by them was that no adjustment in their
salaries was made for the depreciation in the value of the Tanzanian
Shillings vis-a-vis the US dollar. Their contracts were denominated in
Tanzanian Shillings with provision for converting half their salaries into
foreign exchange. Their foreign exchange earnings dropped dramatically and
many felt that they had made a wrong decision in coming to Tanzania. Five
of the individual advisors left by early 1983. Despite the Association's
support for maintaining a fixed exchange rate for conversion into foreign
currency, the Government continued to reject all such claims until late
1985 when the Association was planning to close the project at the end of
the year.



-8-
3.09     Working conditions for the individually recruited expatriate staff
were difficult because of lack of office space, insufficient transport, and
poor cooperation from local counterparts. For many months the advisors
would be doing nothing in the field as they had no transport, and equipment
and spare parts financed under the project had not arrived. When they did
start to arrive in late 1983, five of the advisors had already left. Slow
start on the housing added to the frustration of the advisors some of whom
lived with families in hotel rooms for long periods of time.
3.10     The performance of the two key advisors provided by consultants
was no better. The advisor to the Senior Maintenance Engineer was found
unsuitable and had to be replaced at the end of 1982 by another who left
after 2 months. The third nominee was on the whole satisfactory. The
impact of the advisor to the Road Maintenance Administrator was very
limited when he left at the end of 1985 after nearly 5 years of service.
Most of his attention was devoted to maintaining the project accounts,
which he did satisfactorily. The performance of the individually recruited
key advisor to the Equipment Service Manager suffered because of his
inability and unwillingness to go out to the field. He was mostly office
bound and his work consisted mainly of maintaining an inventory of
equipment and vehicles.
3.11     Successive Association supervision missions in 1983 and 1984
reported on the lack of effectiveness of the technical assistance staff.
Most striking was the inability of technical assistance staff to adopt to
an environment of shortages and poorly trained local staff and labor and to
achieve some minimal success with execution of essential road maintenance
tasks. For example, the most vital task in road maintenance, clearing
culverts and drains - a task requiring manual tools only and unskilled
labor - was neglected.
3.12     In late 1984, things began to improve as the closing of the
project became imminent. The project closing date was extended by one year
from December 31, 1984 to December 31, 1985. Technical assistance staff
fearing that their contracts would not be extended, stepped up their
efforts to demonstrate their effectiveness. However, it was decided that,
in the next project, technical assistance would be severely limited and
much of it would be devoted to formal training and advisory services in key
areas. Furthermore, housing and transport are essential elements in
ensuring satisfactory performance by technical assistance staff.
Formal Training
3.13     Formal training in the project was provided at two levels - the
professional level and the artisans level. At the professional level, 118
students were sent to Indian Universities where they graduated in Civil,
Mechanical and Electrical engineering with a few in Architecture. This
program was a success from the beginning. The Government was prompt in
selection of suitable candidates, although some delay occurred as a result
of the Association needing time and a mission by consultants to determine
the suitability of the Indian universities.
3.14     At the artisans level, the project implemented a two-year training
program at the Morogoro Training School. The project objective was to
develop courses of instruction, prepare curricula, and help COMWORKS staff
to teach the courses and also administer the operation of the school.



- 9 -
3.15     The Morogoro Training School was established in 1974 to train road
maintenance field personnel - inspectors, foremen, operators, and drivers.
Attempts were made under the earlier Fourth Highway Project to strengthen
the school which failed to adopt the training program latroduced by that
project.
3.16     Concerned about the weak operation of the school and the need for
re-assessment of the school's objectives and programs, consultants financed
by the British Overseas Development Administration carried out a study of
the school and the execution of the project component was based on the
study's findings. The study recommended the establishment in the school of
a regular program of courses for road inspectors and foremen, mechanical
inspectors and foremen, and electrical inspectors and foremen and outlined
the syllabus for each of the courses.  The study also recommended measures
to strengthen the administration of the school. There was substantial
delay in implementing the project component due to the time taken by
COMWORKS to prepare a detailed training program including a schedule for
its implementation. Finally, when the program was approved and consultants
selected to execute the program, it was late 1983 and actual training did
not commence until the fall of 1984.
3.17     The two-year program was completed successfully in mid-1986 with
training provided for 66 road foremen, 30 road inspectors, 65 mechanical
foremen, 24 mechanical inspectors, and 44 electrical foremen, a total of
229 trainees (Table 2). While the courses were completed successfully,
there were a few drawbacks and the program fell short of its objective to
enable counterparts to take over ns instructors at the end of the program.
3.18     COMWORKS found it difficult to provide suitable counterparts for
the Mechanical Instructor and the Electrical Instructor. It was also
determined that the two counterparts in place would need a further period
of training. Accordingly, the program is being continued by the same
consultants for a further two-year period under the Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project.
3.19     The expatriate instructors at the Morogoro Training School did not
face the severe problems faced by the technical assistance staff financed
separately under the project to strengthen road maintenar.ce. The school
had housing available for the instructors though much work had to be done
to renovate them; transport was not difficult as the school was nearby;
plus the cooperation of a keen school principal who acted as counterpart to
the team leader contributed to the relative success of the component
compared to achievements by other technical assistance in the project.
Procurement
3.20     COMWORKS agreed with the Association to procure the bulk of the
equipment, vehicles and spare parts in one exercise but suppliers were
required to deliver the items in two lots to be separated in time by a
year. This was intended to allow time for COMWORKS to build and organize
the workshops and field offices to be ready to accept delivery and using
them in the execution of road maintenance and rehabilitation works.



- 10 -
3.21     Although the Credit Agreement was signed in early 1979, the bid
documents were not finalized until early 1981. When bids were advertised
for ICB, there was further delay due to disagreement between the
Association and Government ove. the sufficiency of notification for ICB.
The Government adv-rtised in the local newspapers and the Government
gazette and the Association had arranged a year earlier for publication of
a general procurement notice in the Development Business Forum Edition
published by the UN. The Government also informed all foreign embassies
and legations in Dar-es-Salaam. As a result of the Association's
insistence on advertising in a foreign newspaper or journal of wide
circulation, a further delay occurred.
3.22     Bid response was satisfactory but when the contracts were awarded,
the project was in its third year. Delays in delivery occurred as a result
of suspension of Association disbursements in 1983 and 1984 for all
projects iu Tanzania because of non-payment of arrears on past credits and
loans. It was not until late 1983 that equipment and vehicles started to
arrive and this continued into 1984. A list of the equipment and vehicles
procured under the project is given in Table 3. In early 1985, it was felt
that there was need for a few additional items of equipment and an
increased stock of spare parts, particularly fast moving spares and bitumen
and it was agreed with the Association for part of the unallocated credit
proceeds to be allocated for this purpose. Unfortunately, procurement was
slow despite the fact that COMWORKS had accumulated considerable experience
in equipment procurement in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Much of the
additional items of equipment and spare parts and bitumen had not been
contracted for when the project was closed on December 31, 1985.
3.23     The project a'lso included provisions for construction by contract
of road camps and staff houses that were to be occupied by technical
assistance staff. Instead of selecting contractors after local competitive
bidding as required by the Credit Agreement, COMWORKS proceeded to
construct the houses by force account. Progress was slow and workmanship
extremely poor. While COMWORKS had a separate building division
responsible for constructing government buildings, the work was carried out
by the roads division which lacked the skills to construct houses. A
shortage of building materials such as cement, windows, and plumbing
equipment made construction difficult and many of the houses stand today in
an unfinished stage. The Association supervision missions also felt that
road crews and maintenance funds were being diverted to carry out the
building works. In the event, no claims were made by the Government for
disbursements against expenditures on road camps and housing.
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works
3.24     The project goal was to establish an organization for the
maintenance of 5110 kms of trunk roads. Many of the roads had deteriorated
and the project provided for the rehabilitation of those roads in order to
restore them to a maintainable condition. In all, the road maintenance and
rehabilitation program called for (i) a routine maintenance capability over
5110 km; (ii) regravelling of 600 kms and regravelling capability of 100 km
per year; and (iii) rehabilitation of 1440 kms.



- 11 -
3.25     Eleven road camps and workshops were to be built in the 10 regions
covered by the project. In addition, 16 houses for technical assistance
staff were scheduled for construction. Six routine maintenance crews for
bitumen roads and 26 similar crews for the gravel roads and 6 specialized
units for regravelling and rehabilitation were to be organized and equipped
in stages to exe,.ute the whole program. The regravelling and
rehabilitation crews were to be reduced to one crew in the last year of the
project.
3.26     By late 1983, about 4 years into the project, 10 camps and 5
workshops out of the 11 camps and 11 workshops scheduled had been
constructed. However, the layout of the camps was unsatisfactory in that
the stores were small, the living quarters were too close to the yards, and
stores and offices were combined with the living quarters of the foremen.
The Association's supervision mission in late 1983 questioned if it was
appropriate policy to concentrate housing for labor in central locations
and urged COMWORKS to consider encouraging labor to live along the roads so
that routine maintenance could be carried out without need for vehicles to
transport labor. COMWORKS has expanded its program to build in all 33
road camps and this work continued after the project was closed. Only 8 of
the 16 staff houses had been constructed by the close of the project.
There were shortages in supply of building materials and fuel to construct
camps and houses, and both camps and houses were never completed.
3.27     About one-third cf the original road maintenance program was
completed by the Government. Of the 600 kms of roads scheduled to be
regravelled 258 kms (43%) were actually regravelled. Of the 1440 kms of
roads scheduled to be rehabilitated 504 kms (35%) were actually
rehabilitated. The details of the actual and planned road regravelling and
rehabilitation works under the project are shown in Table 4. Because of
deterioration in other parts of the network, road priorities had changed
and some of the resources financed under the project were employed in
regravelling and rehabilitation of road sections which were not in the
originally agreed program. Thus overall, 1620 kms (32%) of the trunk road
network were improved during the project period . However, the quality of
the works carried out was poor and the deterioration of the trunk road
network has continued.
3.28     Much of the poor performance in the field was due to the lack of
proper supervision and shortage of experienced engineers; but skeletal TRM
organizations have been established in all the 10 regions covered by the
project and with the availability of more qualified engineers trained under
the project and experience gained by them, the situation is turning around.
Because of the deteriorated condition of the roads, the routine maintenance
crews have been merged with the regravelling and rehabilitation crews and
COMWORKS has attempted to establish a regravelling and rehabilitation
capability in each of the 10 regions covered by the project. These crews
are presently more and more being deployed to carry out high priority
routine maintenance tasks such as keeping the drains and culverts open and
patching, and the regravelling and rehabilitation works have been
programmed to be executed by contract under the Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project.



- 12 -
Pilot Program for Regional Road Maintenance
3.29     Little action was taken towards Implementing this project
component until early 1984 when visits were made by technical assistance
staff to the two piU.ot regions, Mwanza and Zanzibar, to prepare road
maintenance programs and determine spare parts requirements to rehabilitate
the regional equipment and vehicle fleets. Although procurement steps were
taken in the latter half of 1984, the spare parts did not arrive until late
1985. Much of the failure to complete implementation of this component was
due to the following factors. The component was introduced into the
project as an after thought and without any pretparation and both Government
and Association gave little attention to the cteponent during
implementation.
Cons lting Services
(a) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of TANZAM Highway
3.30     During project execution, it became evident that some key roads in
the country had deteriorated at a much faster rate than anticipated during
their construction and that steps had to be taken to rehabilitate and
strengthen these roads if the original investments were to be saved. One
such road was the heavily trafficked TANZAM Highway for which technical
assistance funds were used with Association approval to employ consultants
to carry out feasibility studies and detailed engineering to strengthen and
rehabilitate certain high priority sections.
3.31     Six consulting firms were invited to submit proposals including
the firm which provided technical assistance to COMWORKS under the project.
This firm was awarded the contract for the above studies which commenced in
mid-1982. The draft feasibility study report was submitted by the firm
about 2 months late. Detailed engineering commenced soon afterwards and
was completed close to contract schedule. The strengthening and
rehabilitation works on the TANZAM Highway are included in the Sixth
Highway (Rehabilitation) Project.
(b) Preparation of a Three-Year Road Regravelling and Rehabilitation
Program
3.32     An Association supervision mission in late 1984, realized that
much of the gravel road network was not in a maintainable condition and
that regravelling and rehabilitation of the roads being undertaken by force
account was not satisfactory. It, therefore, recommended a country-wide
program for restoring the gravel roads network to maintainable standards
and recommended a study to prepare a long-term program of regravelling and
rehabilitation of about 3500 kms of trunk roads to be implemented over a
ten-year period - a three year slice of about 800 kms is to be implemented
under the Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project.
3.33     At Government's request, the Association agreed to employing the
same consultants who carried out the feasibility study and detailed
engineering for the TANZAM Highway. A contract between the Government and
the firm was signed in February 1985 and the consultants commenced economic
and engineering studies in June 1985. The studies were completed
satisfactorily in December 1850 close to contract schedule.



- 13 -
Implementation Schedule
3.34     A comparison between the original and actual project
implementation is shown in Table 5. Project implementation was about two
years behind schedule mainly due to the: (i) delay caused in credit
effectiveness; (ii) delay in the preparation of bidding documents for
equipmentt and (iii) interruption of procurement due to suspension of
disbursements in Tanzania by the Association for non-payment of arrears.
3.35     In retrospect, it is clear that the implementation schedule drawn
at appraisal was realistic but unforeseen events like the Association's
refusal to accept the initial recommendations for appointment of key
advisors and the Association's suspension of disbursements contributed to
delays in the provision of project inputs and to unpredictability in the
programming of inputs. However, once the inputs were in place significant
progress was made in implementation of the road maintenance program but the
quality of the works carried out was not satisfactory.
Reportina
3.36     The consultants responsible for technical assistance and studies
submitted their reports in accordance with their contracts. COMWORKS
prepared quarterly project progress reports - the first was a brief report
for the period ending December 1980. The quality of the reports were
satisfactory. The Government did not comply with the covenant in the
Credit Agreement requiring submission of a project completion report to the
Association.
Performance of Consultants
(a) Technical Assistance
3.37     Technical Assistance was provided by 2 key advisors from a
consulting firm and by 12 advisors, including one key advisor, recruited
individually. Four advisor) positions were never filled. The average
period of service in Tanzanla of each advisor was about 3 years.
3.38     The advisors' performance was affected initially by numerous
constraints. Office facilities were inadequate, transportation was not
always available, there were delays in the assignment of counterparts who
were mostly not qualified and equipment, spare parts, and materials had not
been procured. Above all, their work was uncoordinated. Towards the end
of the project, there was a modicum of control and direction by the road
maintenance advisor and with the arrival of equipment and spare parts the
advisors began to have an impact on road maintenance activities. But
counterpart training continued to be unsatisfactory and it was felt towards
the end of the project that the impact of the advisors was small and local
counterparts were tending to let the advisors do the work.
(b) Trainint at Moroftoro Trainina School
3.39     The consultants were appointed rather late but their performance
was satisfactory and they are being continued under the Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project.



- 14 -
Pro1ect Costs
3.40     A comparison of the actual and estimated project costs is shoL- in
Table 6. The project costs which reflect only the inputs financed under
the project are close to the estimated costs. While the Goverment's
contribution to support the local costs of the project components was
satisfactory, its allocations to road maintenance budget were seriously cut
for the first two years of the project period. Expendituzes on routine
maintenance dropped from TShs 30.1 million in 1980181 to TShs 22.5 million
in 1981/82. Allocations rose slightly in 1982183 to TShs 24.7 million and
thereafter, the Government continued to increase its allocations despite
serious problems in the economy. The total road maintenance expenditures
rose from TShs 98.7 million in FY1979180 to 258.1 million at the date of
closing of the project in FY1985/86 and TShs 328.7 million have been
allocated for the current financial year FY1986/87 (Table 7). From
FY1983/84, the Government became increasingly supportive of the project and
road maintenance allocations have kept pace with inflation.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
4.01     At project appraisal, the Association was concerned about three
institutional problems. First, experience under the Fourth Highway Project
had shown that the delegation of responsibility for the execution of trunk
road maintenance to the regional governments was not satisfactory. Second,
there was little attention being devoted to the upkeep of the country's
secondary and feeder road networks. Third, there was continued shortage of
staff at all levels, management engineers were inexperienced, and
technicians and field personnel were poorly trained.
4.02     With regard to the first problem, as a condition of project
negotiations, the Government was required to reorganize the TRM
organizations in the regions by relieving the regional governments of any
responsibility and enabling the resident engineers heading the TRM
organization in each region to report directly to COMWORKS. Unfortunately,
many of the resident engineers were unqualified and consisted of
technicians who did not have the ability to organize, manage, and supervise
road maintenance operations in the field. They also lacked powers to
discipline unsatisfactory labor. Much of the resources were wasted on
small volumes of poor quality works.
4.03     With regard to the second problem, a belated attempt was made to
include in the project a provision to organize maintenance of the secondary
and feeder road networks in two pilot regions (Mwanza and Zanzibar). When
it was introduced into the project no preparatory work had been done and as
a result, steps were not taken to implement the components until the last
year of the project.
4.04     It was realized at project apprais3l that COMWORKS would have
difficulty in providing suitably qualified counterparts to technical
assistance financed under the project. Therefore, it was required as a
condition of Credit effectiveness that the three local counterparts to the
three key advisors should be in positions along with the advisors.
Furthermore, the Credit Agreement required that the qualifications and



- 15 -
experience of local counterparts should be subject to review and appraisal
by the Association. In practice, however, many of the counterparts were
not suitable and some were not appointed until later on during the project.
4.05     The shortage of experience engineers necessitated a heavy reliance
on expatriate advisors. Initially, the Government accepted the advisors
reluctantly. This attitude changed during the last two years of the
project when the Government requested extensions of contract for the 2
consultants' staff and 5 of the other 12 advisors.
4.06     By late 1983, although the results achieved by the project were
disappointing, there were signs that the Government was seriously committed
to giving priority to road maintenance in the allocation of manpower and
funds. A TRM organization had been established in each region and efforts
were made to facilitate the work of the advisors by providing them with
transport and housing in the field.
4.07     However, Government was slow in forecasting demand for spare parts
and materials such as cement and bitumen and steps were not taken to use
funds available in the Credit to procure these goods. This severely
limited production in the field. An Association mission in June 1985
reported that the Government had reached a plateau in strengthening the
trunk road maintenance organization and that further improvement was
possible only by developing the local contracting industry and limiting
force account works to the execution of routine maintenance tasks. The
project was closed after extending its closing date by one year to December
31, 1985.
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
5.01     At appraisal, the economic return from investment in highway
maintenance was estimated at 70%, based on reduction of vehicle operating
costs (VOC) and increases in traffic. A sensitivity analysis had shown
that with costs increasing by 25% and benefits decreasing by 202, the
economic return would be still acceptable with 39%. No other benefits such
as the development of the maintenance institution or benefits to travelers
had been quantified.
5.02     The benefits were to be generated by a reduction in VOC due to
improvements of tie roads riding condition from poor or fair to good.
However, during the eight-year life of the project, the contemplated
improvements in the rideability of the roads did not occur as planned.
According to recent surveys (Table 8), of the 5110 km to be raised to good
standard, only 278 km or about 6X were actually raised to good standard.
However, partial improvements from poor to fair standard were registered
for about 1342 km or 26% of the roads. There was no improvement registered
on 62% of the roads and on 6% the condition worsened. These are very
disappointing results indeed. They indicate that the savings in VOC have
not materialized, except for those related to some 322 of the roads. And
even for these roads, only a fraction of the contemplated savings were
obtained.



- 16 -
5.03     The following table illustrates the failure to fulfill the
objective of che projects
Condition of the Project Roads
in 1985 Compared to 1977
Condition     Condition            Condition
Improved      Did not Improve     Worsened       Total
Kilometer       16201I         31752/              31531          5110
2            32            62                   6              100
/I of which  52 km of bituminous roads
I/ of which 316 km of bituminous roads
DI of which 238 km of bituminous roads
5.04     The bituminous roads were the most neglected.  They represent
about 75% of the roads where the condition worsened end only 52 km have
been improved to good standard. This reflects a particularly bad ordering
of priorities as to where to intervene for maintenance operations since the
cost of losing bituminous roads is considerable. The reason given was that
Tansania was short of foreign exchange to import the necessary bitumen
although the required equipment and labor was available.
5.05     Another element in the economic analysis is the traffic volume and
its growth. Here too, the project was in difficulty because of the severe
economic recession of the country which, in turn, is reflected in a sharp
reduction in the traffic volumes. Although traffic surveys are not
available for about 332 of the kilometrage of roads of this project, the
data presented below show that traffic decreased for over half of the roads
where traffic was recorded and increased moderately for the balance.
Traffic on the Project Roads
in 1985 Compared to 1977
Traffic       Traffic              No Traffic
Increased     Decreased            Reported      Total
Kilometer       1600           1835                1675           5110
X            31            36                   33             100
5.06     As a result of (i) the non-improvement of about 682 of the roads;
(ii) the lower than expected level of improvement of those roads that were
improved; and (iii) the limited proportion (31%) of the road where traffic
increased, a recalculation of the rate of return indicates a drop to about
102, (compared to 702 at appraisal). The project thus is barely justified
on the basis of VOC savings. However, the institutional build-up of the
maintenance services in various provinces has been positive and should be
encouraged further with proper incentives to staff and a more appropriate
frame work to define the priorities where to intervene in maintenance and
to give top priority to preserving the paved road assets.



- 17 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS
Project Justification and Objectives
6.01     The project was a logical development after a decade of
involvement in the highway sector to upgrade the highway network. The
exodus of indigenous staff of Asian origin in 1972 brought into focus the
decline in road maintenance capability that had been going on for some
time. Both COMWORKS and the Association realized the need to stem the
deterioration of the country's highway network and began a program to
strengthen trunk road maintenance in two phases. The first phase covered
10 regions in the southern half of the country and was financed under the
Fourth Highway Project which was not completed satisfactorily (Annex). The
second phase covering the remaining 10 regions in the northern half of the
country was financed under the project which is the subject of the PCR.
The project objectives were to (i) establish institutional arrangements for
trunk road maintenance; (ii) train COMWORKS staff and field personnel; and
(iii) implement a road rehabilitation and maintenance program.
Project Content and Scheduling
6.02     Although the project covered only about 5100 kms, it was
ambitious. The project area encompassed almost the whole of the northern
half of the country. Distances are vast and communications especially with
the regions around Lake Victoria have always been difficult. During the
rainy season, road access was cut off. In retrospect, the project area was
too large. The project should have been tried out in one or two regions
since the first phase was a failure for partly the same reason. The
desirability of limiting the project area became obvious towards the end of
the project but the Government had already deployed equipment and vehicles
and allocated funds and other resources to all the ten regions and was
reluctant to concentrate work on two regions.
Proiec. Implementation
6.03     The implementation capacity of CONWORKS was limited by its
reluctance to employ expatriate staff in line positions. Key vacant
positions in the ministry were filled by inexperienced and sometimes
unqualified staff. Senior staff were therefore, engaged in attending to
day-to-day routine running of the ministry, with little time available for
long-term planning and policy making and supervision of field staff.
6.04     Technical assistance staff were employed as advisors to local
counterparts but their presence added to COMWORKS administrative burden and
a few of the advisory positions were never filled. Work on building houses
did not commence until after the advisors had arrived and transport was not
available to enable the a4visors to do field work. In a few instances, the
local counterparts did not avail themselves of the services of their
advisors. Thus, the effectiveness of the technical assistance staff was
not evident until towards the end of the project period when local and
technical assistance staff collaborated and worked harder.



- 18 -
6.0S     The training component was successfully implemented both in
reJpect of training of engineers at Tndian universities and of road field
personnel at the Morogoro Training School. With regard to the latter,
there was inordinate delay in the selection of consultants mainly due to
the disappointment with a similar component in the previous project. The
Government agreed with the Association on the need for integration of the
proposed new courses into the normal curricula of the school and admission
of trainees from all government agencies besides COMWORKS and contractors.
There were also good attempts at counterpart training because of a strong
commltment by the school principal and the cooperation of local
instructors. Because of the undeveloped state of the local contracting and
consulting industry, most of the engineers and road field personnel trained
under the project remain in the service of the Government. Training is
being continued on the same scale under the ongoing Sixth Highway
(Re!hsbilitation) Project with a view to satisfying potential needs of both
public and private sectors.
Lessons Learned
6.06     What proved to be most disappointing in this project is that the
quality of the roads did not improve as expected although much of the funds
to do so were spent. The Government did spend a lot of domestic resources
to train staff and pay salaries, procure material and spare parts in
addition to spending the credit's foreign exchange to acquire maintenance
equipment and hire technical assistance. What went wrong was that a few
critical elements needed to actually perform the maintenance work were
missing. When the labor and equipment were available, the bitumen was not
there. When the labor and material were available, the equipment was not
operational for lack of spare or of fuel or of tyres, etc. In a shortage
situation. it is hance essential that an order of priority be established
to ensur.. that the more valuable activities can be carried out first. For
example, the lack of bitumen, which was not imported from 1984 to 1986,
prevented the resealing and resurfacing works on existing paved roads in
the Moshi area. As a result, some of the roads have crumbled to the point
where reconstruction at a high cost is required. Hence, it would have been
preferable to reduce the scope of the project when, in late 1984, it was
realized the Government could not maintain that entire trunk road network.
This would have enabled the project to concentrate on key activities to
preserve the paved road network, and ensure that main trunk roads are kept
open during the rainy seascn. Better planning for less ambitious, but
critical maintenance operations could have produced much better results.
6.07     Another major lesson learned is that there are serious limitations
to the effectiveness of technical assistance to strengthen road maintenance
operations in the field. Many of the critical road maintenance tasks are
simple tasks technologically and the success of execution of these tasks
depend very much on close field supervision and quality of leadership in
the field organizations; locally available resources provide the best means
to develop and sustain a road maintenance capability. It is doubtful if it
is practical to achieve this by the provision of technical assistance staff
on a large scale country wide. Rather, the project points to the need to
improve the macro envirom 2nt for spare parts, fuel, and materials in the



- 19 -            0
local market and to achieve better results through ..ie provision of
appropriate incentives to management and supervisory staff at all levels.
At the some time, personnel administration policies and management
practices should be tightened and focus on staff discipline and control of
labor.
6.08     Further, the project also illustrates the Government's ambivalent
attitude to expatriate technical assistance staff. On the one hand, the
Government recognized the need for technical assistance staff but, on the
other, it was concerned with the high costs and the burden of administering
to the requirements of a large number of expatriates. Both Government and
Association should also monitor closely performance of individual technical
assistance staff in order to identify as early as possible constraints to
the effectiveness of technical assistance. The monitoring should be based
on previously agreed detailed task-oriented work programs which should be
constantly kept under review. The project also demonstrated the success of
formal training programs at educational and training institutions compared
with counterpart training in the work place.
6.09     Finally, the point is also made by the project if it is economical
to develop a full force account capability to execute road maintenance
works. Experience shows that COMWORKS should limit its force account
operations to routine maintenance and adopt a policy of giving out the
periodic and heavy maintenance works to be executed by contract. A start
has been made in this direction by Government in agreeing to carry out by
contract, the rehabilitation of gravel roads financed under the ongoing
Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project which includes a component to
develop the local contracting industry.



- 20 -
Annex
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Performance of the Fourth Hiahwa2 Project (Credit 507-TA)
The Fourth Highway Project constituted the first of a two-phase
effort to establish a Trunk Road Maintenance (TRM) Organization in each of
the 20 regions of the country. The Fifth Highway Project was the second
phase.
The Fourth Highway Project failed to achieve its physical
objectives. Much of the road network 'covered by the project deteriorated
during the project period despite sporadic attempts to carry out
rehabilitation works. There was no satisfactory planning of road
maintenance in the project area and road maintenance operations were
carried out on an ad hoc basis dependent upon availability of resources
such as fuel, materials, equipment, transport, and spare parts.
The organization and management of the regional trunk road
maintenance organizations were no.t effective and there was little control
and supervision over field crews and their activities. the few scattered
road maintenance works were of poor quality and road conditions rapidly
reverted to their original deteriorated state. Thus, the savings in
vehicle operating costs estimated at the time of appraisal did not
materialize. The economic re-evaluation of the project registered a
negative economic rate of return.
A recasting of the project was attempted in May 1980, about two
and a half years before the project was closed. The TRM organization was
brought under direct control of COMWORES (earlier, the TRM organization was
reporting to the Regional Engineer, an employee of the Regional
Government). A road maintenance program -was established but it was not
realistic and the Government did not employ the additional technical
assistance agreed with the Association. There was little improvement in
project performance and the project was closed on December 31, 1982.
A number of lessons were learned from the project. First,
successful highway maintenance depends mainly on the quality of local
management and availability of requisite number of trained personnel.
Second, the executing agency should be fully committed to employing
technical assistance staff. Third, technical assistance should take an
advisory role only if there are suitable local counterparts. Finally, the
project demonstrated the need to develop the local contracting industry to
participate in road maintenance and rehabilitation works as an alternative
to force account. The ongoing Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project
(Credit 1688-TA, June 1986) includes technical assistance and training to
develop the local contracting industry.



- 21 -
Table I
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIoHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 076-TA)
PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
Detall of Technical Assistance and Tralntng Staff
Starting      Finishing      Duty            Total
A 0 V I S 0 R    T 0                        Date           Date       Stailon        Man Months   Remarks
Roads Division:
Senlor Maint. Engineer                     1/ 1/81      12/81/62      Dar-0s-Salam    24           Cons. Firm
Senior Moint. Engineer                    12/81/82       8/ 1/08      DOr-es-SalIam       2        Cons. Firm
Senior Maint. Enginer                      7/ 1/88      12/81/85      Dar-es-Slaam       89        Cons. Firm
Maint. Administrator                       8/17/81      12/31/85      Dar-4b-Seloaa      67        Cons. Firm
Bridge A Culvert Suptdt.                   4/ 8/01      12/26/66      Dar-*s-Salaam      Be        Individual
Plant & Proc. Engineer                    10/18/80       2/ 1/80      Dar-es-Saleam      63        Individual
Mech. Supervisor                          10/ 0/8        9/10/85      Dar-es-Saloam    69          Individual
Road Superintendent I                     10/20/79       9/19/86      Arusha             71        Individual
Road Suporintenden* II                    10/ 6/80       1/30/86      Coast              62        Individual
Road Superintandeas. III                   8/ 8/81       7/ 2/80      Dodom              62        Individual
Road Superintendent IV                     2/18/81       2/16/88       1doma             24        Individual
Road Superintendent V                      8/ 2/81       8/ 1/83      Tabora             24        Individual
Road Superintendent VI                     S/12/81       5/11/8$      Mwanza             24        Individual
Equip. Service Mgr. I                      9/ 2/81       O/ 1/82      Mwanza             12        Individual
Equip. Service Mgr. It                     4/16/80      10/11/82      Shtnayaya          89        Individual
Materials Engineer                         1/21/84       1/26/88      Dar-os-Salaam      24        Individual
Total Man Months (Technical Assistance)                                              614
Morogoro Troining School:
Training Coordinator                       0/ 1/84      10/ S/68      Morogoro           25        Cons. Firm
Roads Instructor                           9/ 1/84      12/186        Morogoro           27        Cons. Firm
Mch. Instructor                           9/ 1/84      1s/ C/6U      Morogoro          26         Cons. Firm
Elect. Instructor                          9/ 1/84      10/ 5/88      Morogoro          25         Cons. Firm
Total Man Months (Training)                                                          102
Total Man Months (Tech. Aset. & Trg.)                                              716



- 22 -
Table 2
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Training at Morogoro Training School
Staff             No. of   No. of Trainees          X
Category          Courses  Planned  Actual  'Actual/Planned
Road Foremen         4         80      66           82
Mech. Foremen        4         80      65            81
Elect. Foremen       4         80      44           55
Road Inspectors      3         30      30           100
Mech. Inspectors     3         30      24           80
Total            18       300       229          76



TANZWIA
FIF7H HIOAY PROJECT (OCEDIT 6?76-TA)
PROJECT COrLET*  REP1RT
Euipment Procreen_t 5cedle
I  T  E           I         t4DUM DE.110R                   CIF 1t1T PRICE                    LOCh COST (TSM)            TOTAL PRICE
PHASE I PHASE I TOTAL   OURRCY         PamE I       PHASE it        PSE I   PHASE II       FOREtCI     LOCAL (TUbe)
Trunk Roed thiitenanco:
Aepbett Batching Plant    4       2       6     Pounds          0.432        39,772         94,096      ".0          292,275      S09,884
Sitmen Heater            I      --       I     Pounds          15,906         -            14,156       -            15.905       14,1i
9wl IDatr                 4       a       7     VWO            100,906     U1,700           42,000      45000        72S,724     3s.000
Ch;p Spreadr              I               1      .S Kronor      6,15           -             22.000       --         65.154        2,o000
Prgeatiti Roller                  4       6     us$             36,400       39,492          14,000     14.600       j0.728        81e.000
Steel Rol l r                     2       4     vne         10,657,J46    11,243,911        45,548      47,600    43.862,SO,      187,100
Vibretory Roller          4       2       6     Yen          1.184,071    1,247.29           5.3B0      .626S      7,231,942       32.7<0
Atir Coerenesr            1      -        1     Yen          3.449.607         --            1,800        --       3,449,607       15,t00
Concr.te Mterx            I      --       I     Pu               4,666         --            10,175       --           4,6B5       10,173
Concrete Vibrasor         S              3      S. Kroner        6,996         --            2,400        --          20,98B        7,200
Ston. Cn,eker             1               I     Yen         16,6o0,000         --           116           --      I,6O,O0         116.662
Dumper Trwck              4       2       6     Yen          1,912,154    2,000,661          8.57S       8.905    11.650,63B       62,110
T'red Grader             1S      --      1s     uSS             39.718         --            14.929       --         639.488      28,864
Powered Crador           15      1S     26      USN             62,666       87,073         3S,058      3d,000     2.20S,207      949,800
aboratory Equipment      -                      Clt             40.737         -             1,924        --          40,737        1,924
Survey Eiquipent         --                     am              14,346         -               850       -            14,345         8M0
Front and Loader          6       a      9      USN             65,09e       6S,62          48,070      48,510       479.4s9      423,9SO
Mobil- Workshop           3       2      S      Yen         22,173,600   23.293400          124.000    130,000   113,107.600,     UM.000
water Pump               1S      13      29     Yen            366,830      406,77            1,840      1,915    115,m25.22       84.335
Red;o Sget               10      -       10     Yen          3,200.000         --            13.724               32,000.000      137,240
Fuel Tonk                16      --      16     Pound            1,036         -             9,400        --          29.373      150,400
Water Tank                2       2       5     Pound.           1,62S        1,700          7,000       7.700         6,26        386,400
Fuel Tanker               2       2      4      Yen          3,223,000    3.402,900         60,S60      84,770    13,253,400      320,660
Water Tanker              6       S      11     Yen          5,223,600    3,402,900D          7,100     54.770    36,357.300      766,480                          ' )
Air Tools Set             2      --      2      Yen            431,08          --            2.00         --          62.176        5,200
tackeni;e  Tools Set     14      it      25     Pounds             100          110            200         31S         2,610        7,665
WoAahop Tools Group A                           Yen                      52.696,000                    206,620    82,6981,000     206.6S,
WokaAop Tootl Group O                          Yen                         1,000                       14,000     4,360,000       14,000
Senior Hech. Tools Sot    S      -       S      Pound.             642        --              1,590       --           8,210        7,960
Tractor wi*t Bucket       a       9      17    us;              2B,945       29,248          12,500     12,500       492,065      212,500
Tractwr with Bucket A Hae  4      1       5      NSO            39,114       39,114         1S,SOO      15,500       195.m70       77,600
Bitumen Sprayer           1      --       1     Pound.          15,910         --           14,10D        --          15,910       14,160
Boreakdown Truck          1               I     Yen         14.669,000                      82,730                14,6B9,900       02.730
Mini bus                  2      --      2      Ise             14,140         --            7,108        --          28,200       14,216
4WD Pick Up              43      16    s5       Pounds           ,600        5,600          7,000       7,000       342,218      413,000
Sedan                     1      __       1     Yen            9S5,000         -             5,900        --         965.000        S,900
40 Station Wagon          4      --      4      Pounds           6,910         -             7,000        --         0,61          28.000
Flat Bod Truck            2      __       2     Yon          4 806,600        --            60,340                 9,617,200      130.6WO
Flat Bed Truck/Crane      2       1      3      Yn           6,841,100    9,646,200         72.300      93,200    23,328.SO0      237,800
Tipper Trucks            66      47    103      Yen          4,238,700    4.462,200         28,645      30,270   448,020,000    3.026,610
Vater Tank Trailer       I6      13      29     Pounde           3,338        3,800          8,160       8,560        ge,"S0      241,840
Ptlot Regionel Road.:
Tate Sper*e                                     uSS               --         39,940            --         --          39.930         --
Ave1 lng Berford Spar**                         uS$               --         38,23-            -          --          38,236
IzuZs Spares                                    USO $-                       25,6s9            --        --          25,689          --
CGrder Spaer.                                   us                --         25,953            --         --          2S,953         -
Tractor Spars                                   uS$               --          1,929            --         --           1.929         --
Tanuse Roller            --      12      12     0. Kroner         --        150,240            --       12,300     1,002,8S0      147,600
TOTAL                                             Pounds                                                               781,001
stS                                                                5.093.427
S. Kroner                                                            84.14*2
Yen                                                              843 5992350
Olt                                                                  S5,0B2
D Nrone.                                                           1 ,60,660
Tshs                                                                  ot   201



TANZANIA
P-WT HWMAY PR0JWT (CAIT S76-TA)
Planned A Actwal Acca.plliabasnta (P(A) - Roev.l I ing & Rmhabi Iltetien
Length       PY1979/6            Fn196/8I           Pt1981/6           FY1962/8           PY14f8/84          FV11004/415       P7195/8        Total as pot       Teta
RO0AD0   5 EC TtI  N             (K.)      Plan   Actual       Planm  Actual      Plan   Actual      Plan   Actual      Plan   Astwal     Plan   Actwal   *Plan   Actual  APpralsal (t.)  Ac%alm (Ka)
NeeraWel I Ing:
W..-Sebobebol(le40a              42       42        -                                               -        -         -        --                 -                           42-
*t83 NiAraI4agbsti               57        a        -        5         -        -                            is 1      -        go       -         -         -                  so                46
IS-2 eOWW-Srreel               1i6        -         --       48        -        105       as         8       25        -        34       -         15                 is      I"4                I27
00-lmDdqiwArwata                 2        -   -                   -             -         20        94                too10     80       is                                   Ri--- ao            so
WL-4 lbl.tha-8lharamto          us        -         --                                    -        --        25        --       10       04        -         1        -       11                  as
A-4 hati-Oedam                 84        --        -        -                                                         -        ---                         19                 is9 
Toftl Rmguavotllng                      s0         0      100         0      100        58      100        s8      100       102      100        is       so        is      no0                268
RbhabillMotion:
ARt-7 M&uyaa-Wgmaoowr           76        70        --       21        -        --        40       --        is       --        -        -         -                           91                 55
S4-21rboss-Tbora               101        90.                13        -        --        5        --        31       --        48        -        -                          108                 94
S0-S oadomm-Cal re              125       --        -       18         U  p     e a     d  a      to   S      t    a  a  n   S  ta  a  d  a  r  d                             186                125
l(a-a wnga.-W.to                96                          108        --       -          -       -          -       - --                -         x       --I               106                 2
OS-I Oeodaa-Innoa             1in                    -        -        -       140        a-       -          -       -                                               to---1  140                 12
51-3 Sl%gIda-Aruaha             56        -          -       --        -         6        --       -                   -        -         -        -         -        -                           --
SI-I Wnsida-fth                16"        -         -                          124        23       89        25                 is8      ---                -                 188                 6
TA-S   ..5nag                   29        --        -         --                          29       81        --                                                                3  ----    1       29
00-4 Oadem-Sah.                 67        --        -         -        -         -        10       52        18       --        -         -        --       --                  2                 as
SI-I sLoiegd-Shinanga          110                                -- --  -its -- -                 1          -       -         ----                                  -       18-
AN-S bbati-sinaid              107        --        -         -        -                   -       88        1s       46       3-                                       9     I"9                 27
TA-4 l(a.lp-Taboro             11II$-                        -          -        -        -        .-        -       ill        ---                                    a      III                  a
Nlf-I coat-Naouo                41        3--                -          -       --        -         -        -                  --       27        3-       -         -         0                 --
TA-2 Mixogasahaala              54        --        -         --                           -14                        --        16       58        -         6        -ST                         30
VL-E Kyaka-*AwtulsIla            28                           --       -         -         -        ---                                                     3-  1      5       81                  S
80-1 M.ou.-Hoanda               187       --        -         -         -        -                  -         -       --        ---                                            4
Total RoM&;litat;on                    160         0      320         0      820       155      820       118      160       105       80         4       60        30     1440                504



TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Planned aud Actual Project Implementation
Date of         Date of Commencement    Date of Completion             !
Contract Award      of Works/Serv/D-liv      of Works/Serv/Deliv      Completion
----           -------                            ---- - ----------- - -    by Planned
PROJECT COMPONENT                            Plan         Actual      Plan         Actual      Plan         Actual         Date
1.  Road Equipment and Spares                    Mid 1979    Early 1982  Late 1979  Mid 1883   Mid 1981    Mid 1985              0
2.  Workshop Equipment                           Early 1980  Late 1982   Early 1980  Late 1986   Mid 1980    Mid 1986            0
3.  Construction of Camps                        Late 1979        --  lt  Late 1979   Late 1981   Late 1980   Underway           0
4.  Road Maint. Materials                        Late 1979   Early 1982  Early 1980  Late 1982   Mid 1980    Late 1982          40
5.  Rehab. of Reglonal Equip.                         --  2t      --      Late 1979   Late 1988   Mid 1980    Underway           0               tn
6.  Technical Assistance A Training:
(a) Tech. Asst. to COMWORKS                  Early 1979  Mid 1980    Early 1979  Late 1980   Mid 1982    Late 1985          40
(b) Trng. at Morogoro School                 Late 1978   Mid 1984    Early 1979  Late 1984   Early 1981  Mid 1988            0
(c) Training Aids                            Late 1979   Mid 1984    Early 1980  Late 1984   Mid 1980    Late 1988           0
(d) Housing                                  Late 1978        -- I/  Early 1979  Late 1981   Late 1979   Late 1988           0
(e) Trng. of Engineers In India              Early 1979  Early 1980  Mid 1979    Late 1980   Mid 1983    Late 1984          70
1/ Works carried out by force account.  No disbursements by Association.
2/ Not applicable.
I n



- 26 -
Table 6
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual A Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs
:            =-==                        :        =        = 33=   33:    3    __=3     G=:2=S::55
A c t u a I  C o s t    Appraisal Estimate of Cost   Actual
_____________________ __ -_--- as E of
PROJECT COMPONENT                   Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total   Appraisal
(TShs m) (USS m)  (USS m)  (TShs m) (USS m)  (US$ m)   Estimate
(a) Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Equipment
Including spare parts                10.01    11.08    12.231/   6.98    11.13    12.00         101
(b) Zonal Workshop Equipment              0.23      0.54     0.68 1/  0.28      0.68      0.62       90
(c) Construction of Base and
Road Camps                           1B 24 3/  -         1.701/  16.24      0.38      2.39        71
(d) Road Maintenance Materials            -         0.40     0.4021   3.14      0.62      1.01        39
(e) Rehabilitation of Existing
Regional Equipment -
P lot Program                         0.16      0.19     0. 198    0.20     0.42      0.44       43
(f) Technical Aswistance & Training
(i)   T.A. for Planning and
Road Maintenance               11.71     2.90      4.1321   0.97      2.43     2.55       161
(It) Instructors for Morogoro }
Training School           }    0.71      0.85      0.eg92   0.17      0.42     0 44)
(iii) Training Aids             }                                 0.05      0.09     0.10)      127
(iv)  Housing for Technical
Experts                         2.40 3               25     2.40      0.20     0.60        so
(v)   Training of Engineers            -       2.62      2.6221   0.49      1.25     1.31       192
Subtotal                      41 45   1T828    22.87    30.90    17.50    2136
(g) Contingencies:
(i)   Physical                                                    2.38      0,61     0.91
(ii)  Price                                                       7.18      2.64     3.44
Sub-total                                                   9.64      3.16     4.36
TOTAL                     41.46    18.28    22.67    40.44    20.65    26.71           88
=2==    =3=3    =3=3=3   ::=3==   ==s:==  3=33=            =3
1/ Foreign exchange rate to convert local currency to USS Is
USS1.00 - TShs. 9.50.
2/ Foreign exchange rate to convert local currency to USS is
USS1.00 = TShs. 16.42.
3/ Appraisal estimates used In the absence of actual costs.
4/ No disbursements made against these items.
6/ Local expenditures on individually rocruited advisors are
not available.



TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 876-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOr'
Road Maintenance Expenditures (FY1979/80 - FY1988/87) (TShs X 1,000)
I   T   E   M                         FY1979/80   FY1980/81   FY1981/82   FY1982183   FY1983/84   FY1984/86   FYI986/86   y1I988/87 Y
Plant Vehicles and Hand Tools                            740         776         883      12,486      14,354      18,966      28,000
Routine Maintenance                      22,860       30,050      22,490      24,730      42,310      44,494     143,220      173,000
Road Camps                                  100          224         e30         484         768       1,303       1,5 w        1,600
Special Wor,ks                              476          340         607         693         917         888       1,000        1,000
3ridges nd Culverts                         --            41          56          59      11,833      12,934      15,000      20,100
Periodic Maintenance                     75,282      68,982       85,590      81,869     114,827     123,644      73,222     100,750
Ferries                                     -          1,246       4,082       3,321       5,268       4,832       6,234       5,300
Total Road Maintenance                 98,707      99,603      114,109     111,919     188,398     202,249     268,141     329,650
1/ Budget allocations. Actual expenditures in the past have been
close to budget allocations.
I-!
a-
sr
-4



- 28 -
Ps je I of 2
TMVAMO
FIFTH HI@Wt YOJ r (aR? 807-TA)
Road Inventory Canditioe Vd Traffic Volvo"
CoerlM Between 1077 and 18
Surface           1
inz ma                iz no
Arueh             a. AR-1          Arleo4mng                           9 B         F     F    F          246    172
son AR-2         Aruehh-flakuyunl                    75    a    F     F r  R          402    1"
son AR-9 (1)    l4uywnlotI                           S2    8    f     F   H            11     74
..     (I)    Nakuyunil-ati                        60    a    P     p    H           l18    74
*eAR-4          Babat4-Oodmo Berder                 42    0    P     P   R            #i   --
c. AR-8          ItiKl_enjaro Bordar-Arueo           50    B    P     F    F/R        1683   1096
* AR-6         aB"ati-Sln,de Border               129    a    p     P    R/H         96    -
* AR-? (i)     ikuyunt-rengoti Park fintoe   ?      0    a    p     P    R/H         160    278
*      (Ii)    Hakuyuni-Serenetl fPrk aite         21    0    P     P    R/H          62    -
a..      (iii)  Hakuyuni-seregeti Paris Oate        -a     a    P     P   R/H           10    -
Sub-total       "Z
Dodma             a*se DO-1 (i)    Dodom-Aruhea Border                  11    8    F     F    F/R        133    84
ao      (ii)    Oedooe-Arueh border                210    a    P     P    F/R        48       84
aae 00-2 (i)   Didom-Iringa Border                    2    9    F     P    F/R          94     11
a      (I i)   Dod.e-Iringa Border                140    0    P     F/P  F/p         94      11
sea 00-t (i)    Dodiam-Oi rr                          2    8    F     a    Fp          165    117
a      (i,)    D_ee-Gairo                         #in    a    p     a    F/"        112    117
a.. D0-4 (;)     Dodo.a-8ehi                          6    8    F     P    R/H         78    88
a      (i;)    Dodoms-Dphi                         a     a    P     P    RNH         73      Ss
Sub-total       An
K ;              uses K4-1         Iatryanl-#yantwigs                 280   a    p       P    R/H         28     18
*eac  K0-2        Kafeytnl-Haobwo                     70    a    P     P    ft/H          a     -
see K0- (i)      Kiaoe-Emnyjani                       t    8   F      F    R/H         s0      27
asa      (;;)    Kisome-lNanyni                     -l    0    F      P    R/H         60    27
Sub-total       m9
K;lianjaro        *-- KL-1         Hisomaui                            16S    d   F      P    F/R        82    2U5
se. KL-2         Himo-"Deh;                          2J   B    F      F    F/R       8B2   1188
es* KL-3         oashI-Arushe Border                 aS    d   F      F    F/R        941   761
use KL-4         Hlro-Kibou                          60    C    F     F   R/H          84   878
o*c KL-5         His-Tavots                         _JZ    B    F     Ff R/H           84   --
Sub-total       2K
Moare                 HA-1          undafbanza Border                  21   Under Conetruction           --    218
cc HA-2         Dunda-Sireri                              a C    P   F/P  R/H         72   18
Sub-total       1L
6stArdka indicate roade identified an bilb priority and ineluded under the Project for:
* rehabilitation end subsiquent routla. mintance;
*  regravoelling and oubseuent rowtln  caintannce;
**e routine mintenance only; end
uses routine maIntenance only. am maintenance units incresae their capacity.
./ Surfeeo Type (1978): 89 Bltu.n;  erav*l or Ereth
Surfoce Condition (978)       od; FPir; P-wPoor
2/ Terrain; FaFlat; R ftlIing; HdHilly



- 29 -
ieg 9 of 2
Bain               a.       .         nl1a                iU. _lTans CiiU                  Ta*3*S ts^/ isafi
Am -                 Amn
11_..a       *       W-I          0.lte4ieri                         8s  0a    p    P    P/R            U     in
oI-9         0.lto-UmearI 106    a   P                            P   PA    ?       0   907
.44 15i Cl)    Uae.eie4haeze-bt. Brder             SB    i   P    FIP P/li          161   821
(iI)    U"W.pto-eaa.lbt bidetr             9    Under Cotruslon
eoW4         "re4hiyUseo  -Snpeogarder          -a    0    P    F   P/R          164   170
&.b-to.        *Z
hAgkg               e S-I          heMg.-Voetde                      1a?   0    p      p   A/H          299
.J2               m*e-i                             11s   a    p    P r   RF/H          i   --
.4.    3 S4      Ito -Tab.re 8brder                 J3     a   P      P   F/R          10   --
Sub-totai      duZ
ih.ig.   .4-1                     Voot Lake  ordetl rer- hlo      18 5   0   U/C            F/R         84    97
. a-I (i)     eas Border-Tube" brder             8   8    F    P   F/R           191    49
*      (I1)   iWss b.rderd-Tboe. bdr4eer                a 0   P    P/P F/R         121   231
$u-tote I       n
6 lde             ee  SI-1 (1)    Sleaids-bhl                          8    R   P    P   R/H   lle             es
*     (It)  USraide-bab                          1      0   p    P   R/H            76     S
St. 81-2 (I)    Slaelda-mljera4  Border          2   1    P    p    F/R           78   --
a      (tt)    SSreld-S tny bidert               118   G    P    P/P  t/R           78   --
44 61SW  (t)    SIlde-Afte.s e    r4bdet             1         P    P   R/H           98    sO
( tt)    Slagds-Arebas wrdor                      so   C    f      P   R/H          9s    SO
Se.4I-4          ftuegu4llugt*                       a8   0    P    P   R/             10    26
**so 61-8        JAUG-lS4ieg- _1saa                   5    a    P    P   R/H           1O    26
sub-tota I
Tero  TA-i                        Nate"a4ioede bid,r                 108   0    F    F/P  f/ft          a8     82
. TA-2         _&W-lMi.gla                        87   0    p    p   F/R            47    38
e TA-S       ftop4h-inayale bode                  S1   a   p       p   PF/R        8a    40
o. TA-4 (t)     lNage-Tab.en                         4   8    F      F   F/R          98    as
*      (I t)    isee-TIborl III   a   p                            Pff F/R          78    aS
_  TA-S         Irp.eli-bkw    der                  as   a   p       P    F/R         tO    -_
TA-6        TS,e-Raao.a                        978   0   p       P/F PA           14    46
e.. TA-7         KUutI-JI.-ie-la 0ie                 40g    0   P     P   Rf/H         10    -
Sub-tote I      M
WestLake   . L-1 (1)              bl,eb*ytea                           4   S    P      P    t/H        118    82
*      (i ;)   8u-lto-1yaik                       44   0    P      F/P  R/H       lS    82
* VL-2       tKye- tukle                          31   0    P    P   3/H            se    -
. WL-3 (;)      Brkebs-Wlele                        17         F  P       RA/H       80-
44     (t1)    ukabs-blemba                        42   0   p    F P/H              906    --
.. WL-4         owIemb-Sihstmle,                  116   0    P    P/F Rf/H           S    -9
IL-D        Sasaeelo-5et  aal                    8    0    p    P   N/H           go   --
WL-6         2ek.        tw;                     99    0    P    P   R/H          11
e.e VL-? (i)      akealaajs-Sbilayeg  biert          1   B   P    F    F/R            10   --
.44      (i )                       Bore e;-Uhlay der  as1    a   F  P/F  x4n         10   __
*oe IL-                                             asa arul ro  ec   0    p    F/F F/R  so
*see IL-4         Raloseelaeam                       40   0   p       P   Rt           20    _
IL-10        Lue.lmga4lu I sn"41sou. Fs l           U/C  p    0
Sub-toa         m|
Total       8109s
For sot... a"e oae     f  thial table.
0urr. Nieletrv of Werk* erd  4eIatty of Ce_maidc;tioe  *nd Teranort. DeceAbot l9lOJanuear  1967.



NOTES
I I



XAP SECTION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



r UGANDA   V.'        t       :u 2                                       /. K1.. 
.-'  N  KyokQ  ~+Sukoba
i_'  \? '      '       7N8uitot                          M        us/ ~uso
RWAN DA                             ba ,b  /     aA               8un,.
R 'IHA NAM
J\,...: ~~  ~  I  mulb         4.MWANASmi(
NzozoPY
PARK GATE
S  {  \        \!*       ~     ~~~~~~~~~Shinyg t -o
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I1OM  .                        ,,                                    ;Singid
Ki                                                                        .f   \    A .1    1
'      Le.
lpol~~~~~~~~~~~~Sb
'ZAI\RE                                       /      ''    '--%b9          IRli
a.~~~~~~~~~b
~~Z           A  M           u  b                                           $^ 
I
3?I 7                                 omt
I  /     \    Fs           Vlhnel Uart   r Bo\ 
fJ tA'-\f"N~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD  1377R
- b f N et* }                                                                    UGANDA |
/   KENYA
--2     ,;   !t Kt~~~ Y A  ,_                                                                                         ss\
,^7'''''Nllmatij?C~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U72 0 ) 
.I'-S    Sr'-
..  '   . . '  )        \                                          Z A I R E      \                Dof es Salo
*   A4-tI  //ew7v     i,vKlbou                                                         F       N.i
X e"i8  _   t                                                                      9>7                |A*    
M!ill,E        .5EA                 vo                                                                      ZAiMBIA-
.;!dkuyunl v \f , ~     -..,j                                                             MMA     -MOIAMSIOQUt
A>af v*t           4/ver7v Sefcf  \                                                4                    TANZANIA /
Fifth Highway Project
ROAD MAINTENANCE
J                                                                                           -     t  Mltomett  1 <   \  Primary roads
Secondary roads
IC J                                                                                                 .. )}<ish \ < ........................ Wes Rivers
- *     ?        .06f  rT --  I I z Railways
i zl ) ;_ Jgfirv                               $    International oi4por's
i  7+    Scheduled service airports
National parks or game reserves
@Regional headquarters
'4)t}le 1*   0 {, tS'rtt wtAL\X    X,,,}      A         1/  s   i l         '                                     Regional boundaries
/5oiro                                                           - --  l,    X.Internotional boundories
Maintenonce program area boundary
- Challnze            >nKunduetl                                 Progrom areas under thi project
-J         Dar ese Slatan            I tA=   Maintenance program road sectionts
Kilo  ~            OGROD r ES SA'ut. 4M   '-                                        and coding
NOTE:   he un*.sdd portions of the owunty
von  te prowum  maru we the Fourth
HIivwly Prolb-t
RINGA                                                                 Kibii                         0, 20 40 eoDo 8o0   120   e1          20D    240
Utat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
I      .                             Nyamaage    Mohtoro 
WMIS
st .        Kilwa Kivfnje
'7-;, ,i Vg    r                                                                           -,  X
-5 j' ,r'I Ir !u~..u \II~ 'I C ew.j "'   \
'   \  7Liwa ele<
ony-,a          \                            ,+.<'      MG$     a>                        ,, 
Tuduru       ,     r   t'                 5
7s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W. 61 Tf 1*ew r1xeoft w                                           __st Wt nr- 006 fr
{05-'~ V           .5g.)s    MOZAMBIQUE
SEPTEMBER 198



