Document of
The World Bank                          FILE  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2187b-TA
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 27, 1978
Highways Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY- EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            Tanzanian Shilling (T Sh)
US$1.00                            =     T Sh 8.00
T Sh 1                             =     US$0.125
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)               0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                          2.2 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA  -  Canadian International Development Agency
EAC   -  East African Community
EDF   -  European Development Fund
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
MAJI  - Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
MCT   -  Ministry of Communications and Transport
MFP   -  Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOW   -  Ministry of Works
NEDCO -  National Estates and Design Company
ODM   -  Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
ORT   -  Organization for Rehabilitation through Training
SIDA  -  Swedish International Development Authority
TCSL  -  Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line, Ltd.
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
VOC   -  vehicle operating costs
VPD   -  vehiclas per day
ZTRS  -  Zambia-Tanzania Road Services
GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  -   June 30



TANZANIA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........................................              1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting and its Effect on
Transport ......        .............. . ... . .......              1
B.  The Transport System .......... ........1
C.  Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination  .3
D.  Previous Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector                   6
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR.                                                      6
A.*  The Network                         .....       .                     6
B. Traffic Growth and Characteristics              . . .                   7
C. Administration .. . .                                                   9
D.  Staff and Training .. ....... .         ...              ... & .      10
E.  Planning ...............  ..........                                  12
F.  Expenditure and Finance ..............          .      .13
G. Engineering                   . . .16
H. Construction.. .. . ........                                           17
I.  Maintenance o ........o......   ..                                    17
III.  THE PROJECT . ......... .........20
A. Background                          . ..... 20
B. Objectives .... .....-.                                .........  20
C. Project Description .21
D.  Cost Estimates ....                        0..........                29
E.  Financing .         ..........  ......... . .               .32
F. Execution. ........                                   ....   32
G.  Procurement ................                         .     .          32
H.  Disbursements .         .............               .    .....        34
I. Environmental Aspects . ..35
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .................             .36
A.  Introduction ..... .........                    .      .36
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries                     . . .36
C.  Economic Analysis .... ..............37
D. Risks    ...39
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                ......    40
This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Clare (Economist), J. de Weille
(Economist) and S. Carapetis (Engineer) who appraised the project in April
1978. The report was edited by Miss P. Brereton.
lThis document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   Road Inventory and Vehicle Operating Cost Savings               43
2.   Equipment to be Purchased                                       45
3.   Composition and Equipping of Units                              46
4.   Project Progress Reporting Requirements                         47
5.   Related Documents and Data Available in Project File            50
CHARTS
1.   Organization Chart - Ministry of Works (IBRD 19349)
2.   Implementation Schedule
MAP
Tanzania - Fifth Highway Project - Road Maintenance (IBRD 13777)



TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting and its Effect on Transport
1.01      Tanzania, situated a few degrees south of the equator on the eastern
coast of Africa (see map), has a land area of about 945,000 sq km, a large
part of which is high, arid plateau. The population of about 15 million is
concentrated near the three main Indian Ocean ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga
and Mtwara, and in the Lake Victoria region, the highlands around Kilimanjaro
and the southern highlands near Lake Nyasa. Less than 10% of the population
lives in towns, but the urban population is increasing much faster than the
national average of 2.7% p.a.
1.02      Agriculture is the main economic activity, accounting for about
40% of the GNP and 80% of exports (mainly cotton, coffee, sisal, tobacco
and cashewnuts). The small but growing industrial sector includes textile
and sugar mills, tobacco processing, an oil refinery, and diverse other
small plants. However, poor road conditions and lack of adequate transport
seriously constrain the country's economic growth, especially the marketing
of agricultural products and the delivery of agricultural inputs.
1.03      Tanzania's development philosophy aims at reducing inequalities in
income distribution through rural development and through state control of
large-scale agricultural enterprises and important industries and services,
including those related to transport. To facilitate rural development and
to improve overall efficiency, the Government in 1972 decentralized various
administrative activities, giving the country's 20 administrative regions
substantial power to control planning and budget provisions in their respec-
tive jurisdictions, particularly those activities concerned with development
at the local level. With regard to roads, this decentralization policy is
reflected in Government's decision to make all roads other than trunk roads
the responsibility of regional administrations (para. 2.11).
a
B. The Transport System
The Network
1.04      Tanzania's transport system comprises roads (about 45,000 km), two
railway systems (totalling 3,570 km of track), three main ocean ports and
some minor ocean and lake ports, two international airports and over 50
smaller airfields. A pipeline carries oil between Dar es Salaam and Zambia;
in addition, one of the railways, TAZARA, and a major road, the Tan-Zam



- 2 -
Highway, were built mainly to carry Zambian traffic. Since the collapse of
the East African Community (EAC) in 1977, Tanzania has become wholly respon-
sible for management of its transport system.
Highway Transport
1.05      Details of the highway subsector are discussed in Chapter II.
Railways
1.06      Two railway systems serve Tanzania:  the Tanzanian Railway Corpora-
tion (TRC) and the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA). TRC was
established as a corporate entity in 1977 to operate that part of the East
African Railway Corporation (EARC) located within Tanzanian territory.
Although not all issues involved in this transfer have yet been fully re-
solved, TRC now manages and operates the 2,600 km, 1.00 m gauge railway in
northern Tanzania. Linking Dar es Salaam and Tanga with Arusha, Tabora,
Mwanza, Kigoma, and Dodoma, the railway is particularly important for long-
distance transport. TRC moves a wide variety of Tanzanian exports and
imports, and its Dar es Salaam-Kigoma line handles transit traffic for its
landlocked neighbors, particularly Burundi and Zaire. TRC's operations and
services are not satisfactory because of low availability of locomotives
and wagons and lack of workshop facilities as well as the deteriorated con-
dition of equipment and track. Large investments are required, and the
Canadian Government has agreed to provide substantial financial assistance.
1.07      TAZARA, financed by the Peoples Republic of China and owned jointly
by Tanzania and Zambia, commenced operations in 1976 and consists of 1.067 m
gauge track extending 970 km from Dar es Salaam to the Zambian border and
continuing another 890 km into Zambia. The principal traffic at present is,
and for some years will continue to be, Zambian exports of copper and Zambian
imports. Future growth of Tanzanian traffic on the line will depend on
development of the country's southern regions. Maintenance of locomotives,
turn-around time of wagons and coordination with the port of Dar es Salaam
are poor; Government is currently making efforts to improve this situation.
Ports and Shipping
1.08      The principal Indian Ocean ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mtwara
are organized under the Tanzania Harbours Authority created in 1977 to take
over operation of ports from the defunct East African Harbours Corporation.
Dar es Salaam, with 11 alongside general cargo berths for ocean-going ships,
handles nearly 4 million tons of traffic annually or about 85% of the total
for the 3 ports. Tanga has no deep-water berths and requires use of lighter-
age facilities; Mtwara has two deep-water berths. Nearly half of the tonnage
through the Dar es Salaam port is Zambian traffic. Recent planning studies
of the Tanzanian ports have concluded that fairly sizeable investments for
expansion of facilities and improvement of the entrance channel are needed
for the Dar es Salaam port.
1.09      The Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line Ltd. (TCSL), established in
1971, is a parastatal corporation with a monopoly of carrying freight and



- 3 -
passengers between various coastal and island ports south of Dar es Salaam.
Traffic between Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and Lindi is highly seasonal with heavy
traffic in the rainy season when alternative road transport is unreliable,
circuitous and costly. Until an improved coastal road including a costly
bridge over the Rufiji River can be built (which appears unlikely for many
years), the TCSL will play an important role in transport to and from south-
eastern Tanzania.
1.10      Some transport services are also provided on Lake Victoria and Lake
Tanganyika. The principal ports on Lake Victoria are Mwanza, Bukoba and
Musoma. On Lake Tanganyika, Burundi-owned ships transport considerable cargo
between Bujumbura and Kigoma, the western terminus of TRC.
Air Transport
1.11      Of the more than 50 officially designated airfields in Tanzania,
only a few are built to standards high enough to permit operation of jet air-
craft; of the remainder, many are dirt and grass strips used only occasionally.
International airports are located in Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro; Mtwara,
Tabora, Dodoma, Mwanza, and Zanzibar also have paved runways. The national
air transport company, Air Tanzania, was established in 1977 following ter-
mination of operations of the East African Airways Corporation. Mainly using
Fokker F-27 aircraft, the airline provides services to major centers within
the country and limited services between Tanzania and certain neighboring
countries. No regular air service is available from any carrier between
Tanzania and Kenya; all road, rail and air traffic between the two countries
was suspended in February 1977.
Pipeline
1.12      A pipeline financed by the Italian Government and operated by the
Tan-Zam Oil Pipeline Company was completed in 1968 from Dar es Salaam to
Ndola in Zambia. Initially, the 1,705 km line of 20.3 cm pipe principally
carried gasoline to Zambia, but following construction of a refinery at
Ndola, the line transports crude oil. Design capacity exceeds 700,000 tons
p.a., and traffic flow has generally been at about that level.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.13      Before independence, the transport infrastructure was developed
to serve Tanzania's external trade, but since the late 1960s, expansion of
transport infrastructure has been directed towards providing neighboring
landlocked Zambia with rail (TAZARA), pipeline and road access (the Tan-Zam
Highway) to the Dar es Salaam port. More recently, Government's development
policy (para. 1.03) has led to an increasing emphasis on rural road develop-
ment, strengthening road maintenance capabilities and decentralization of
the road administration.



- 4 -
1.14      In spite of the major investments undertaken in recent years in
Tanzania to accommodate Zambia's import/export traffic, this traffic, for
the following reasons, currently experiences considerable delays which
seriously affect the Zambian economy: (a) Zambia's connection with the
Atlantic Ocean - via the Benguela railway and the port of Lobito - has
been closed since the outbreak of the Angolan Civil War, adding further
pressure on the Tan-Zam corridor, but was reopened for limited traffic in
October 1978; (b) the transport capacity of Zambia-Tanzania Road Services
(ZTRS), a large trucking company operating between Zambia and Dar es Salaam,
was deliberately reduced in anticipation of TAZARA's services; TAZARA, however,
has not lived up to expectations and carries considerably less than planned;
(c) partly as a result of TAZARA's inefficiencies, Dar es Salaam port is
congested, and ships calling on Dar es Salaam experience waiting time of up to
a month and sometimes more; and (d) operational coordination between ZTRS,
TAZARA, and the port of Dar es Salaam is poor and adversely affects the
utilization of available capacity of the Zambia/Dar es Salaam transport
corridor. To improve Zambia's overall transport situation, the Zambian
Government recently reopened its southern border to enable transport to pass
through Rhodesia. In addition, the Consultative Group for Zambia is taking an
active interest in the transport problem, and in July 1978 the Zambian Govern-
ment requested Bank assistance in determining how best to mitigate the trans-
port constraints in the Tan-Zam corridor. Furthermore, the Benguela railway
may shortly become fully operational again; this would decrease the delays in
the transport of goods to and from Zambia and considerably reduce the pressure
on the Tanzanian transport links with Zambia.
1.15      Tanzania's transport situation has also been complicated by the
dissolution of the EAC. Because of basic disagreements within the EAC, its
railway, ports and air organizations have ceased operations and are in the
process of being formally disbanded. New national organizations were estab-
lished in 1977 to take over these responsibilities within Tanzania, and these
now face serious problems, particularly the need for large capital investments
from the national budget and the recruitment and training of additional
skilled manpower.
Planning
1.16      The Ministry of Works (MOW) is responsible for planning highway
investments while the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) over-
sees planning for other transport modes. The Ministry of Finance and Plan-
ning (MFP) has the principal responsibility for financing transport invest-
ments and recurrent expenses. MFP prepares investment programs based on
proposals from MOW, MCT, and the District Councils, after preliminary review
by the Office of the Prime Minister. Transport planning capability is weak
in all ministries, and data for planning are not systematically collected;
hence little meaningful transport planning has taken place. Bank Group staff
have been advising both MCT and MOW on preparation of a project-specific
national transport plan which would define priorities and programs for in-
vestments in the sector. Thus far, neither Ministry has been able to commit
significant resources to this exercise and MCT recently decided that a National
Transport Study should be undertaken by consultants covering all modes of



-5-
transport. In October/November 1978 a three-man team, financed by the Swedish
International Development Authority (SIDA), visited Tanzania to draw up terms
of reference for the Study.
1.17      Government capital expenditures (in current prices) for development
of transport and communications during 1970/71-1975/76 were as follows:
Inland and
Roads and        Coastal
Fiscal Year       Bridges          Waterways          Other           Total
-------------------- T Sh millions -----------------
1970/71            163.1            19.7            42.0            224.8
1971/72            128.5            23.4            180.4           332.3
1972/73             73.3            16.1           204.1            293.5
1973/74            119.4             2.6            24.7            146.7
1974/75            174.4             7.1             34.9           216.4
1975/76           219.2              3.4             14.9           237.5
Source:   Ministry of Finance and Planning and mission estimates, 1978.
Total development expenditures for transport and communications over the
period declined as a proportion of Government's overall development expendi-
tures.
1.18      Issuance of the 1976/77-1980/81 development plan was delayed until
mid-1978 in order to make revisions necessitated by the 1974/75 economic
crisis and, later, to gain Parliamentary approval of the plan. Government
has, however, acknowledged that the transport plan may be further revised in
view of the collapse of EAC transport organizations. A major emphasis of the
transport plan as it now stands is development of the recently established
transport organizations and their operation.
Coordination
1.19      Coordination of investments within the transport sector is almost
nonexistent, largely because of the lack of planning capability and partly
as a result of various difficulties faced by EAC transport organizations
in the recent past. These problems have not led to serious misinvestments
though there is a growing need to give this issue more attention; this matter
should be addressed in the National Transport Study referred to in para. 1.16.
Coordination of investments among transport and non-transport sectors has also
been less than satisfactory as can be seen in southwestern Tanzania where the
benefits to date realized by Tanzania from heavy transport investments in
the Tan-Zam corridor appear minimal, indicating an urgent need for general
development of the area in Tanzania served by corridor transport. Recently,
however, Government has given higher priority to the development of this area,
and certain projects being prepared should result in substantially increased
benefits to Tanzania from the transport investments.



- 6 -
D. Previous Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
Previous Projects
1.20      A number of projects concerned with roads and road transport have
been financed by the Bank Group: (a) US$14 million, IDA Credit 48-TA in 1964
for construction of various road sections totalling 860 km; supplemented by
a US$3 million Credit in 1968 (115-TA); (b) US$15.5 million under IDA Credit
142-TA and US$7.0 million under Bank Loan 586-TA supplemented by a US$7.5
million Swedish credit in 1969 for reconstruction of part of the Tan-Zam
Highway; (c) US$6.5 million, IDA Credit 265-TA in 1971 for construction of
a main road in the southeast and betterment of selected feeder roads; (d)
US$10.2 million, IDA Credit 507-TA in 1974 for improving the maintenance of
primary roads and for carrying out a study of the road transport industry;
and (e) US$15.0 million, IDA Credit 743-TA in 1977 for a trucking industry
rehabilitation and improvement project, arising out of the road transport
industry study under the previous credit. Rail and port improvements in
Tanzania have been financed by the Bank Group through loans amounting to
US$166 million to the EAC organizations concerned; the loans assisted with
improvement, modernization and expansion of the EAC railway and the ports
of Dar es Salaam and Tanga.
Lessons
1.21      A Project Performance Audit Report on the revised First Highway
Project (Report No. 791, June 26, 1975) found that implementation of the
project's technical assistance and training programs aimed at improving
Tanzania's highway administration was subject to unusual risks because of
slowness and reluctance in recruiting expatriates, cultural and language
problems experienced by the expatriates and an absolute shortage of local
staff. Similar problems were experienced during the Second and Third Highway
Projects. These problems as well as a severe shortage of housing for expatri-
ates have also been handicapping implementation of the ongoing Fourth Highway
Project (Credit 507-TA). As the proposed project depends heavily on the
success of technical assistance and training, the experience gained from
these earlier projects has been drawn upon, and the proposed project has
been designed to make efficient use of the technical assistance provided.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01      The road network in Tanzania totals approximately 45,000 km, of
which 7% are paved and 93% are gravel or earth as shown below:



-7-
Tertiary
Primary      Secondary        Regional
Trunk         Local        and District
Roads       Main Roads        Roads          Total
Bitumen             2,660           364              -           3,024
Gravel or Earth     6,656         7,330           27,990        41,976
9,316        7,694           27,990        45,000
Source:   Ministry of Works, 1978.
Only about 900 km of the gravel roads have been engineered while the remain-
ing unengineered gravel or earth roads normally become impassable during
the wet season. Roads classified as Trunk Roads (9,316 km) link the country's
20 regional capitals and connect Tanzania with neighboring countries; they
vary in standard from two-lane paved roads to unimproved earth tracks.
Roads classified as Local Main Roads (7,694 km) link other centers of economic
activity with the trunk road network while those classified as Regional and
District Roads (about 28,000 km) form the balance of the system. The 9,316 km
trunk road system includes about 2,100 km of Local Main Roads and Regibnal
Roads recently reclassified to Trunk Roads.
B. Traffic Growth and Characteristics
Traffic Counts
2.02      MCT is responsible for undertaking traffic counts.  A good traffic
counting system existed in the past, and fairly reliable and detailed traffic
count information is available for the entire trunk road network up to 1974
and for specified stations since then. However, the system has deteriorated,
and traffic counts are now undertaken only sporadically or on an ad hoc basis,
primarily because of serious budgetary limits but also because of administra-
tive constraints. Given the fundamental importance of traffic counts for
transport planning, Government agreed to make regular and systematic traffic
counts on its trunk road system (para. 5.01 (a)).
Traffic and Traffic Growth
2.03      Data on the growth of traffic are incomplete.  However, traffic
growth has been estimated at only 2 to 5% p.a. during the past 5 years, much
below the annual rate of 7 to 8% which prevails in other East African coun-
tries. The relatively low estimated growth rate is based on scattered traffic
counts and the probable effects of reduced agricultural production due to tWD
years of drought, a rural population resettlement program, and restrictions
on vehicle imports to conserve foreign exchange.



- 8 -
2.04      Of the 9,316 km of trunk roads, 29% are bitumen surfaced with
relatively high traffic volumes, averaging 350 vehicles per day (VPD) but
ranging as high as 1,400 VPD. Bitumen roads are mostly in fair condition and
carry about 75% of the total annual traffic flow of 400 million vehicle-km
on the trunk road system. The rest of the trunk road system consists of
gravel or earth roads, mostly in poor condition. Traffic volumes on these
roads average 55 VPD, while the most heavily trafficked 4% carry between 150
to just over 200 VPD.
2.05      As indicated in the following traffic composition table, bitumen
roads carry higher percentages of passenger cars than do non-bitumen roads,
whereas there are higher percentages of pickups, landrovers and trucks on
gravel and earth roads.
Trunk                          Pickups/       Trucks        Buses
Roads               Cars      Landrovers    (9-tons)    (50 pass.)        Total
…_________________________(% )…__________________________
Bitumen              30            24           26            20           100
Gravel or earth      10            33           36            21           100
Average              21            28           30            21           100
Source:   Ministry of Communications and Transport, 1978.
Trucking Industry
2.06      The private and parastatal truck fleet (excluding Government min-
istry vehicles) was estimated at about 13,000 vehicles in 1975, of which
10,000 were privately owned and 3,000 publicly owned. More recent, reliable,
and detailed information should become available in 1979 as a result of a
survey of the entire vehicle fleet being undertaken by MFP. In addition, under
the Association's Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
(Cr. 743-TA), provision is made for the design and implementation of compre-
hensive and systematic data collection procedures for the transport industry,
including all aspects of vehicle fleet size and composition.
2.07      The private sector mainly consists of owner-operators, but also
includes transport cooperatives and traders or manufacturers with trucks for
their own use. Private operators work on a competitive basis and concentrate
on the more lucrative long-haul business, generally avoiding short distance
operations and areas where business is less profitable and roads are poor.
2.08      Public sector trucking operations, accounting for one-third of total
services, are provided by transport parastatals and transport wings of manu-
facturing, trading and crop parastatals. To permit a more effective use of
existing trucking capacity, Government is reorganizing and improving public
trucking and, with the assistance of the Association's ongoing Trucking
Project, is setting up trucking companies in five important regions. Companies
have been established and are already operating in three of these regions, and
following decisions due shortly on capital structure, ownership and staffing,
their operations will begin to benefit from financial assistance under the
project.



- 9 -
TruLI. WeigilL.t, *.  isions -and lispections
2.09      The 1973 Road Traffic Act adequately regulates truck weights, set-
ting the maximum gross vehicle weight (including trailer) at 35,000 kg. More
restrictive axle load limits apply to some roads because of limited pavement
bearing capacity. Overloading was a major problem on the Tan-Zam Highway
until December 1976 when Government began enforcing weight restrictions and
obliging overloaded vehicles to offload. However, operators are now pressing
MOW to relax the enforcement of regulations relating to gross vehicle weights
on the Tan-Zam Highway, and the Ministry has proposed a study to assess the
implications of such a move and the effect on the economic life of the road
pavement. To help enforce vehicle weight regulations on other roads, the
Government is installing weighbridges in about ten locations.
Trucking Rates
2.10      There is no national freight rate system in effect.  Truck trans-
port is relatively expensive, as high as US$0.22 per ton-km for general cargo,
because of poor road conditions and trucking inefficiencies, especially in
the public sector. Rates charged by the private companies reflect costs and
vary according to type of cargo, road condition and the possibility of relturn
loads; the rates are revised frequently and are generally profitable and
reasonable. In the public sector, rates are now often negotiated. Transport
costs should be reduced in the future by operational improvements in the
trucking industry under the ongoing IDA trucking industry project and by
improved road conditions resulting from the ongoing Fourth Highway Project and
the proposed project. These lower costs are expected to result in a gradual
reduction in trucking rates.
C. Administration
2.11      In 1974, the former Ministry of Communications and Works (Comworks)
was split into two Ministries, MCT and MOW, with the latter assuming respon-
sibilities for roads and equipment. The present MOW organization is shown in
Chart 1. Although MOW finances the construction and maintenance of trunk
roads, regional authorities through their Regional Engineers, actually carry
out field operations for road maintenance on the whole network, on trunk
roads using funds and equipment provided by MOW and on the rest of the net-
work using regional budget funds. In some cases agricultural authorities
also undertake feeder road maintenance using their own resources.
2.12      These organizational arrangements present a number of problems, most
of which arise from a shortage of trained and experienced staff, the lack of
operational equipment and inadequate workshop facilities. Faced with extreme
shortages of these resources and the heavy demands on the regional authorities
in most sectors, Regional Engineers tend to respond to the orders given by
their nearest supervisor, the Regional Development Director. When regional
priorities conflict with MOW's requirements for trunk roads, the Regional



- 10 -
Engineer is sometimes pressed into diverting to regional works the resources
provided by MOW for trunk road programs, including, although usually only
temporarily, equipment financed under the Association's Fourth Highway Project
(Cr. 507-TA). Although maintenance of trunk roads is progressively improv-
ing in areas covered under the project, it still occasionally suffers because
of the diversion of resources. In some regions, MOW has taken on a technical
supervisory role by directly posting its own Resident Engineers to oversee
trunk road maintenance in cooperation with the Regional Engineer, and in
these areas the tendency to divert resources has decreased significantly.
This type of arrangement will be used in implementing the proposed project
(para 3.23).
2.13      MOW has recognized that the organization of network responsibilities
should be improved to ensure that the Ministry's priorities and programs are
adhered to and that objectives of the proposed project are fulfilled. Various
options for changing the present organization and management of trunk road
maintenance have been explored. Government has agreed that by March 31, 1979
it would adopt a management system including operational guidelines which,
consistent with the Government's overall decentralization policies, would
enable MOW to determine and exercise full authority over trunk road mainte-
nance programs and to control trunk road maintenance equipment. It was also
agreed that Government, in consultation with the Association, would develop a
program to implement the management system (para. 5.01 (b)).
D. Staff and Training
2.14      The shortage of qualified and experienced staff has long been a
problem in all MOW divisions. In 1970, Comworks lost a considerable number of
expatriates. Thereafter, despite some technical assistance from the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), generally less than one-third of the
engineering and technical positions have been filled due to a lack of quali-
fied nationals. With its wide-ranging responsibilities, including construc-
tion and maintenance of public buildings, repair and maintenance of vehicles
and plant for several ministries, etc., MOW needs many trained and experienced
staff. Short-term help has been obtained from the Indian Government, and in
1974 Tanzania engaged 35 Indian engineers to fill various MOW positions for
2 years, with some stays extended to 3 years. The effectiveness of this
assistance in relieving MOW's staff constraint has been somewhat limited,
however. First, the effective time of these engineers in the Ministry is
significantly reduced owing to the need for familiarization as well as the
inevitable winding down of performance towards the end of their contract.
Second, MOW has not appointed local counterparts to the engineers for training.
And third, even if MOW had appointed local counterparts, most of the Indian
staff occupied demanding executive positions which allowed them little time
for training of such staff.



- 11 -
2.15      A further 62 Indian engineers have been scheduled to join MOW in
1978 and 1979. Of these, 15 were allocated to fill some of the 73 vacant
positions in MOW's Roads Division; by December 1978 only 5 of the 15 had
arrived, and MOW is unsure as to when the others will arrive. Since the
Indian engineers will work mainly in design, construction and materials
sections where the need for fully qualified engineers is highest, many of the
58 positions in the Roads Division that will remain unfilled will be in the
Maintenance Section. However, the majority of these vacancies require only
qualified technicans who, with practical on-the-job training and experience,
would be capable of supervising and managing MOW's maintenance and rehabilita-
tion program. The Fourth Highway Project is helping to meet this need by
providing technical experts to give lesser qualified staff on-the-job training
in maintenance management, operations and procedures, and the proposed project
would expand this effort. However, training under the Fourth Project has been
constrained until recently by MOW's slowness in appointing local staff to
vacancies in the Maintenance Section. This has been caused by the general
shortage of technical staff in MOW as well as MOW's lack of organizational
planning, which has resulted in less than optimal assignment and utilization
of existing staff. The Ministry's present organization and allocation of
staff should be reviewed in order to identify appropriate staff for re-
assignment or appointment to various positions in MOW, including those
filled recently for implementation of the Fourth Highway Project and those
required for implementation of the proposed Fifth Highway Project. The
proposed project provides for MOW to carry out such a review (para. 3.17).
2.16      If MOW's heavy dependence on expatriate engineers is to be reduced,
a longer-term solution to the shortage of qualified staff is required. One
alternative is suggested by the experience of the Ministry of Water, Energy
and Minerals (MAJI) which, with financial assistance from SIDA and under an
agreement with the Indian Government, sent 150 high school graduates to
Roorkee University in India, to be trained as engineers. Reports from MAJI
and the Indian Embassy in Tanzania indicate that the program is proving
successful. The majority of these students will graduate in mid-1979 and
return to Tanzania to take up engineering positions in MAJI. A similar
program of engineer training for MOW is therefore included in the proposed
project (para. 3.19).
2.17      For formal training of field crew personnel, in 1974 the Government
constructed the Morogoro Training School with a capacity of 120 students.
Five instructors as well as some training aids are being provided for the
School under the Fourth Highway Project, and a modest but accelerating start
has been made in training personnel required for the road maintenance program.
From mid-1977 to June 1978, 58 road foremen, 59 plant operators and drivers,
19 auto-electrical and 32 foremen mechanics received training at the School
and subsequently contributed to the improved maintenance performance noted irn
para. 2.32. However, the future need for trained personnel, as indicated in
the following list, will be much greater.



- 12 -
Trained Personnel Required for Field Crews
Road Inspectors                                             6
Road Foremen                                              200
Plant Operators                                           220
Plant Attendants                                           31
Drivers                                                   350
Mechanical (mechanics, welders, electricians)             240
Carpenters                                                  9
Total                                             1,056
Source:   Ministry of Works and ORT, 1978.
Training courses will be provided until 1980 under the Fourth Highway Project,
by which time some personnel will have been trained. However, since the total
requirement for trained staff will not be met by that time, it will be necessary
to continue this effort at least until 1982, and the proposed project will
provide for this need (para. 3.18). The recruitment and selection of trainees
under the ongoing project has been below the School's capacity, mainly because
of insufficient planning for trainee recruitment and the lack of direct
involvement of MOW's maintenance section in the recruitment and selection of
trainees for its program. These problems will be addressed under the proposed
project (para. 3.18).
E. Planning
2.18      Highway planning in Tanzania is weak, and with few exceptions
planning data are not systematically collected. An administrative reorgani-
zation in 1974 left MOW with no planning capability. In 1977, MOW created its
own Planning Division, and has appointed a Director, a transport economist and
another economist; in addition, a highway planner and a building industry
planner have been assigned to the Division by SIDA. As the unit's operations
expand, it will probably require additional staff and some technical assistance
or consultants to assist with studies and analyses of important transport
policy issues; the project provides financial assistance for this purpose
(para. 3.15).
2.19      The Third Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81) includes start of con-
struction on the following links in the trunk road network. Completion
of the program is not expected during the Plan period. The primary objective
of this strategy, to pave important existing arteries connecting major centers
of economic activity, is sound.



- 13 -
PLANNED TRUNK ROAD INVESTMENTS
Road                             Length                            Status
Feasibility       Detailed          Construction
Study          Engineering        & Financing
Songea-Makumbako                   325           completed         completed          under discussion with
ODM
Dodoina-Morogoro                   261           not done          completed          under discussion with
various private and
Government agencies
Makuyuni-Nwan2a
(a) Makuyuni-Oldeani              75            completed         not done          rehabilitation and
maintenance included
in Highways V; con-
struction under
discussion with Japanese
Government
(b) Oldeani-Mwanza               415            completed         not done          no proposals
Songea-Mbamba Bay                  180           not done          completed          no proposals
Chalinze-Stiegler's Gorge          190           not done          completed          commitment from NORAD as
part of Stiegler's Dam
Project
Stiegler's Gorge-Nyamwage          130           not done          not done          no proposals
;lyawwage-Lindi                    300           completed         not done           under discussion with
Japanese Government
Rusumo Falls-lsaka
(a) Rusuto Falls-Lusahunga  93                not done           completed         started with aid from
AfDB
(b) Lusahunga-Bukombe           127           not done           completed         no proposals
(c) Bukombe-Isaka               112           not done          completed          under discussion with
LDF and DANIDA
Mvanza-Musoma
(a) Mwanza-Bunda                120           completed         completed         started with aid from
EDF
(b) Bunda-Musoma                 64           completed         completed         started with aid from
EDF
Source:  Ministry of Finance and Planning, Third Five-Year Plan for Infrastructure and Social Services
(July 1976-June 1981), 1978; Ministry of Works, 1978.
F. Expenditure and Finance
Expenditures on Trunk Roads
2.20              Through 1975/76 recurrent budget allocations and expenditures
were inadequate to properly maintain the trunk road network, reflecting the
Government's policy of giving priority to investments in agriculture and
industry. Since then, however, Government has recognized the priority of
reducing waste and loss of production caused by impassable and rough roads,
and consequently, increased maintenance expenditures from about T Sh 35
million to over T Sh 100 million per year.



- 14 -
Expenditures on Trunk Roads and Bridges
(T Sh million)
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
Recurrent          36.6       30.3        34.3       103.8      112.1
Development        94.6      143.7       170.8       145.4      123.0
Source:   Ministry of Finance and Planning, 1978.
The 1977/78 allocation was significantly underspent. Two factors are respon-
sible for this. First, the severe wet season in 1978 disrupted road works
programs and prevented road maintenance gangs from working. Secondly, and
more significantly for Bank Group projects, the country's capacity and capa-
bility for road maintenance is low due to shortages of equipment and trained,
experienced manpower.
2.21      Both the ongoing Fourth Highway Project as well as the proposed
project are directly aimed at increasing Government's capacity to maintain
trunk roads and, indirectly, other roads. In support of this objective,
Government agreed to progressively apply and continue to apply its increased
road maintenance capability to the maintenance of its trunk road system in
accordance with sound engineering practice and will promptly provide the funds
required (para. 5.01(c)). In addition, the following points were confirmed
during negotiations. Government confirmed that it will annually review with
the Association the sufficiency of allocated road maintenance funds. For
fiscal years 1980 through 1983, Government confirmed that a reasonable esti-
mate of the funds required annually would be T Sh 106 million, T Sh 115
million, T Sh 118 million and T Sh 126 million, respectively, in January 1979
prices. Government has also confirmed that it will maintain an adequate level
of expenditures, in real terms, for trunk road maintenance in the period
following project implementation.
2.22      During the early 1970s, development expenditures for trunk
roads mainly went toward construction of the Tan-Zam Highway which cost
about T Sh 500 million and was finished in 1974. With the adoption of its
decentralization policy in 1973, the Government's emphasis shifted to rural
development, including feeder road construction, and for the first time the
regions were allocated development funds directly. Since then only one rural
trunk road and one urban road have been constructed: a two-lane bitumen road
between Mtwara and Masasi in the south and a four-lane highway to reduce
congestion in the industrial area between Dar es Salaam and its international
airport. In 1978 construction started on two other rural trunk roads, one
between Rusumo and Isaka, near Buhegela, as an international link to improve
the access of landlocked Rwanda and Burundi to the Tanzanian ports, and the
other road between Mwanza and Musoma around Lake Victoria. In addition, a
start has been made on construction of an improved access road linking Dar es
Salaam port with other major roads.



- 15 -
2.23      Since 1970, about two-thirds of total investments were financed with
foreign financial assistance, predominantly in the form of credits and some
grants. The main contributors have been the Bank Group, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the Federal Republic of Germany
and the Scandinavian aid agencies.
Expenditures on Secondary and Tertiary Roads
2.24      Expenditures on secondary and tertiary roads are financed out of
general revenue allocations from the central government. Apart from occasional
externally-financed road development projects, for which MOW is given respon-
sibility, all works on secondary and tertiary roads are the responsibility
of the regional authorities. Expenditures on these roads are estimated as
follows:
Expenditures on Secondary and Tertiary Roads
(T Sh million)
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
Recurrent          53.4        70.8       57.7        53.9        82.6
Development        24.9       30.7        48.4        49.8        75.1
Source:   Ministry of Finance and Planning, 1978.
The reduction in recurrent expenditures for the two years after 1974/75
resulted from a development policy favoring investments in agriculture and
industry. Average expenditure on roads in those two years was less than
US$200 per km equivalent but was more recently increased to US$300 per km
equivalent. Though this should be sufficient to provide a reasonable level
of maintenance on these low-traffic roads, regional authorities do not have
the equipment, workshops or trained manpower necessary to carry out road
maintenance work efficiently and economically. However, a certain amount of
improvement has been achieved in some areas under projects financed by the
Bank Group and bilateral aid. The Bank Group has financed a number of proj-
ects with feeder road components, including the Third Highways Project
(Cr. 265-TA), agricultural projects for cotton (Cr. 454-TA) and tea
(CR. 287-TA) as well as rural development projects in Kigoma (Cr. 508-TA)
and Mwanza/Shinyanga (Cr. 803-TA). Norwegian aid has helped to finance
feeder road betterment and maintenance units in two agricultural areas, and
the British Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) is assisting feeder road
development and maintenance in Tabora and is currently discussing with Gov-
ernment a proposed project to help several southern regions to improve their
road maintenance capacity and performance. The results of these ongoing
projects will be monitored during supervision of the proposed Fifth Highway
Project. In addition, a Pilot Program is included under the proposed project
to address regional road maintenance problems and to identify longer-term
solutions to these problems (para. 3.13). Critical factors to be addressed
are the limited absorptive capacity of regional authorities and the prospects
for strengthening their road maintenance organization.



- 16 -
Revenues from Road Users
2.25      Local expenditures on roads are financed from general revenues to
which road users contribute through taxes on vehicle ownership and use, as
well as ferry charges (up to 1972/73). The greater part (about 85%) of total
revenues from road users comes from import duty revenues.   In 1976/77 and
1977/78 (the latter according to preliminary estimates), total revenues from
road users were sufficient to cover almost all recurrent expenditures on all
roads.
Annual Revenues
1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77
(T Sh million)
Vehicle Registration Tax) 19.4       7.3      7.9     9.9      1.7     0.4      0.6
)
Vehicle Licenses         ) 25.3    23.2    28.6       5.5      6.1     5.8      4.8
Tax on Vehicle Transfer )  2.3       1.8      5.7     5.7      7.7     6.0      6.1
Transport Licensing         3.4      3.1      4.7     5.1    11.5    10.3       8.5
Ferry Receipts /1           1.6      1.8       -       -        -       -        -
Import Duties on Fuel,
Tires, Tubes, and
Vehicles                112.8   106.2.  118.7   149.4   154.1   145.9   166.1
TOTAL           164.8   143.4.  165.6   175.6   181.1   168.4   186.1
/1   Ferry receipts ceased in 1973.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Planning, 1978 and IDA Estimates.
G. Engineering
2.26      Minor roads and bridges are designed by MOW staff, but all economic
and engineering feasibility studies and detailed engineering for major proj-
ects are undertaken by consultants. Most consulting work is carried out by
private, generally expatriate, firms although the National Estates and Design
Company (NEDCO), an MOW parastatal organization established in 1971 to do
planning and design work on a commercial consultative basis, undertakes a
small but growing proportion of this work. NEDCO has the right of first
refusal to all Government and parastatal design and planning work. Although
principally involved in architectural work, NEDCO does undertake some indus-
trial and urban development projects. Its work in these areas is generally



- 17 -
satisfactory and improving as it gains experience. However, like all other
engineering enterprises in Tanzania, it suffers from lack of staff. A
recent study of the construction industry (para. 2.29) included a review of
NEDCO's capacity, performance and staffing, and the Government is currently
considering ways in which NEDCO can be strengthened.
H. Construction
2.27      Major road construction works are undertaken by contractors after
competitive bidding. MOW undertakes small construction works by force account
and is developing its capability in this area through betterment and mainte-
nance units which are managed by local MOW staff or by consultants until local
staff can take over. Although supervision of construction is normally done by
consultants, MOW has recently used its own staff for supervision of one or two
such projects, with generally satisfactory results due in part to training its
staff received from consultants supervising other projects. However, because
of MOW's serious lack of qualified engineers, it is expected that most con-
struction supervision will continue to be done by consultants for some time to
come.
2.28      The Mwanachi Engineering and Construction Company (MECCO), an MOW
commercial construction parastatal formed in 1971, mainly undertakes build-
ing construction and urban infrastructure projects, such as urban roads or
sites and services projects. In its first two years of operation, MECCO's
performance was not commercially successful, and it was on the verge of
bankruptcy due to shortages of working capital, lack of qualified staff,
lack of machinery and equipment and a Government requirement that it accept
contracts at unrealistically low prices. Its operations have improved re-
cently as a result of considerable assistance in the form of equipment and
technical assistance from the Finnish Government.
2.29      Only a few small local construction firms are active in Tanzania;
they are not equipped for roadworks but concentrate instead on building
construction. MOW, with assistance from SIDA, carried out a study of the
local construction industry in 1977 and is currently considering the study's
recommendations on improving and strengthening the industry. SIDA has as-
signed a construction industry planner to the MOW Planning Division, who
will assist MOW to develop policies and programs for the industry.
I. Maintenance
Trunk Roads
2.30      Although well maintained in the early 1960s, trunk roads are now
mostly in poor condition and frequently impassable during the rainy season.
MOW has been unable to adequately maintain these roads because of the unsatis-
factory organization of maintenance operations already described (para. 2.12)
and more importantly, because of inadequate budgetary allocations (para. 2.20)



- 18 -
and a shortage of trained and experienced staff (para. 2.14). The lack of
money for equipment and tools coupled with a need for qualified road main-
tenance supervisors has sharply decreased the effectiveness of labor gangs.
Equipment operations suffered particularly from a shortage of foreign exchange
which prevented the importation of new equipment and caused equipment avail-
ability and utilization to decline because of a lack of fuel and lubricants,
spare parts, workshops and workshop equipment and tools. In addition, the in-
sufficient number of trained and experienced equipment operators and their
supervisors led to a higher than normal amount of damage and breakdowns.
2.31       Government is attempting to improve this situation through more
balanced road expenditure programs which give increased emphasis to road
rehabilitation and maintenance. From the point of view of cost effectiveness,
this strategy is sound and should receive continued support. In Tanzania,
rehabilitation of roads to all-weather standard costs between about US$3,500
and US$12,500 per km, whereas bituminized roads cost between US$200,000 and
US$250,000 per km. 1/ With traffic volumes on trunk roads averaging 55 VPD and
over 85% of these roads carrying less than 100 VPD, rehabilitation to all-
weather unengineered standard with improved maintenance yields more than 75%
of the vehicle operating cost savings of full construction and bituminization.
In addition, such a program yields these benefits to users more quickly and at
considerably less investment cost.
2.32      With the Fourth Highway Project, the Association is supporting
Government's strategy for roads by providing financial assistance to help
maintain trunk roads in Tanzania's ten southern and eastern regions, and
maintenance of these arteries has recently improved significantly in both
quality and quantity.  Although initial implementation of that project was
slow, progress has improved since early 1977 when technical assistance and
project-financed equipment began to arrive in the country. Up to March 1978
the following work was carried out under the project: reconstruction - 7 km,
earthworks - 26 km, grading - 302 km, gravelling - 448 km, patching of asphalt
roads - 44 km, and resealing of asphalt roads - 8 km. Continued improvement
in the longer term will hinge on the appointment and training of local staff
to carry on the work after the expatriate technical staff leave. Accordingly,
to fully achieve the objectives of the Fourth Highway Project, it is essential
that MOW staff assigned for each of the positions for which technical experts
are being provided under that project should be appropriately qualified and
adequately trained to plan, supervise and implement effective and efficient
maintenance programs. By the same token, the extension of technical assist-
ance for the maintenance of primary roads in the country's northern and
western regions as intended under the proposed project will also require the
training of a sufficient number of suitable local staff. The proposed project
is designed to alleviate the local staffing problem (para. 3.17) as well as
to provide equipment, materials, road camps and improved workshop facilities
(paras. 3.08-3.12).
1/   Cost based on past projects and recent feasibility and engineering
studies.



- 19 -
2.33      Improved maintenance of trunk roads has been achieved with the
guidance and supervision of technical experts financed under the ongoing
project. However, recruitment and retention of these experts has been below
scheduled levels, partly because of an extreme shortage of housing, par-
ticularly in Dar es Salaam. As a result only 16 of the 21 project advisor
positions have been filled at any one time, and project implementation has
suffered accordingly. Since this situation has proven to be intractable, the
proposed project includes financing for housing of the necessary expatriate
experts (para. 3.17).
2.34      The efficiency and management of road maintenance operations is also
seriously hampered by the country's poor communication systems. Telephone
services are not always available throughout the country or, where they exist,
are erratic and slow. Travel conditions on roads are likewise slow and
unreliable, resulting in long delays in the ordering and transport of men,
machinery and materials. Accordingly the proposed project includes finance
for a two-way radio communication system between headquarters, base camps and
key supervisory and mechanical personnel (para. 3.08).
2.35      Road rehabilitation and maintenance work in Tanzania is carried
out largely by regional road units using some equipment to supplement labor
gangs. Since most of the equipment is old and frequently obsolete or in-
operable, much of the minor works are necessarily carried out by labor-
intensive methods. However, a major constraint to the increase of such work
methods is the severe shortage of trained, experienced supervisory staff.
Efforts are proceeding under road components of the Tabora and Mwanza/Shinyanga
Rural Development Projects (Crs. 703/803-TA) to establish appropriate organi-
zations, management and operating procedures for expansion of labor-intensive
and self-help methods of maintaining rural feeder and village access roads.
The lower standards and levels of traffic involved make these roads, rather
than trunk roads, more appropriate for experiments in labor-intensive work
methods. If such methods prove satisfactory, they could be incorporated
into future projects for roads of higher classification. Since the trunk
road system is now in such poor condition and in need of urgent rehabilitation
and maintenance, the proposed project is designed for the most efficient use
of the relatively few capable road supervisory staff available, with an
appropriate mix of equipment and labor.
Secondary and Tertiary Roads
2.36      Regional authorities are responsible for the development and main-
tenance of secondary and tertiary roads, nearly 80% of the total road system.
Each of the 20 regions has a Works Division for civil works including con-
struction and maintenance of rural roads as well as the maintenance of trunk
roads on behalf of MOW. Lacking the necessary road-works skills and re-
sources, the regions have been able to do only sporadic work and usually only
on an emergency basis following damage caused by heavy rains and flooding.
As a result secondary and tertiary roads are in such poor condition that
in some cases crop and marketing parastatals are forced to allocate their
own funds to carry out emergency works on roads serving their production
areas. The principal constraints facing the regions are lack of finance,



- 20 -
equipment, workshops and workshop tools, and trained staff. Although under
the Fourth Highway Project MOW agreed to rehabilitate its existing equipment
for use by regional authorities on secondary and tertiary roads, little
progress has been made due to lack of foreign exchange for spare parts,
lack of workshops, and a shortage of trained workshop staff. In addition,
management is poor and record keeping is almost nonexistent. A pilot pro-
gram is included in the proposed project to assist in determining how main-
tenance planning and operations undertaken by the regions on rural roads
can be improved (para. 3.13). Eventually, this should eliminate the need
for independent units financed under agricultural projects (para. 2.24).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      In 1971 the Government commissioned a highway maintenance and
organization study (USAID-financed), which made recommendations on the equip-
ment, staffing and organization needed to restore maintenance of the road
network to an adequate level. On the basis of these recommendations, MOW
decided to undertake an extensive maintenance effort concentrating initially
on trunk roads which carry the highest traffic volumes and on building up an
appropriate national network maintenance organization. It was decided to
implement this program in stages, the first of which was financed under the
Fourth Highway Project (Credit 507-TA) and concentrated on the trunk roads in
the southern and eastern half of the country. The Government has now decided
to proceed with another stage to cover trunk roads in the northern and western
half of the country.
3.02      The proposed new project is based on progress, results, experiences
and lessons learned under the Fourth Highway Project and on a preparation
study undertaken by consultants, World ORT (Switzerland), and financed under
that project during the first half of 1978.
B. Objectives
3.03      In line with Government's goal to improve MOW's capability and
capacity to maintain and rehabilitate the trunk road network, the project's
two main objectives are:
(a) to improve the condition of the trunk road network in
the northern and western areas of the country in order to
reduce transport costs and to promote economic develop-
ment; and



- 21 -
(b) to increase the long-run road maintenance capability
of the MOW through on-the-job and formal training of
local road maintenance personnel at all levels.
C. Project Description
Highway Maintenance Program
3.04      The project includes financing of a highway maintenance program to
help improve routine and periodic maintenance (regravelling and rehabilita-
tion) of trunk roads in the northern and western regions of the country
(5,109 km). A summary of the lengths and surface types of all trunk roads in
each region in the project area is given below, and a detailed inventory is
presented in Annex 1.
Gravel
Bitumen    and Earth         Total
=__________--- km --------------
Arusha              256           391           647
Dodoma               21           538           559
Kigoma                6           377           383
Kilimanjaro         228            60           288
Mara                  -           175           175
Mwanza               58           309           367
Rukwa                 -           497           497
Shinyanga             3           288           291
Singida               9           524           533
Tabora                4           705           709
West Lake            22           638           660
Total    607         4,502         5,109
Gravel and earth roads have been combined in one category ("gravel and earth")
as the distinction between them in the project area is often nebulous: (a) the
gravel surface of many "gravel" roads is frequently nonexistent because of the
backlog of maintenance; and (b) the geometrical design standards of the two
road types are the same in most cases since few of the gravel roads are
engineered.
3.05      It is not practicable to improve routine and periodic maintenance
simultaneously on all these roads due to a backlog of work and the limited
funds and manpower available. Accordingly, the project will include the
highest priority roads, selected on the basis of transport cost savings,
and will cover rehabilitation and regravelling on the gravel or earth roads
listed on page 23. These roads, listed in priority order, have been identified
by MOW and IDA staff as being in urgent need of routine and periodic maintenance.



- 22 -
The first year's program will be as shown in the schedule on page 23,
and for subsequent years MOW's Maintenance Management Engineer and his
supporting staff, with the assistance of expatriate technical advisors in-
cluded in the project, will annually review the maintenance requirements of
trunk roads in the project areas and if necessary revise the schedule of roads
to be rehabilitated and regravelled under the project. In this way, the
schedule can take into account any changes in road conditions brought on by
weather or traffic as well as changes in development and transport priorities.
The schedule of roads to be rehabilitated and regravelled under the project
will form part of a detailed project implementation program. Government has
agreed to submit for review a detailed annual project implementation pro-
gram to the Association by April 30 of each year during project implemen-
tation, starting in 1979 (para. 5.01(d)). This program would include exact
locations, design and construction details, cost estimates, proposed budgetary
allocations and actions to be taken in connection with the program for imple-
menting the management system referred to in para. 2.13.  As roads are rehabil-
itated and regravelled, routine maintenance crews will be established under
the project to continue adequate maintenance. The project will also provide
for the establishment of routine maintenance crews to eventually maintain the
approximately 600 km of bitumen roads in the project area.
3.06      Routine maintenance, regravelling and rehabilitation will be
carried out by the crews to be established and equipped under the project
in the numbers shown below:
1979/  1980/  1981/  1982/  1983/  1984/  1985/
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Gravel/Earth Roads
Regravelling units (No.)             1       2      2      2       2      2      1
Length regravelled (km)             50    100    100    100    100    100       50
Rehabilitation units (No.)           2       4      4      4       2      1      1
Length rehabilitated (km)          160    320    320    320    160       80     80
Cumulative length regravelled
and rehabilitated (km)           210    630   1050   1470   1730   1910   2040
Routine Maintenance Units (No.)      4       8     16     16     22      25     26
Bitumen Roads
Routine Maintenance Units (No.)      2       4      6      6       6      6      6
Cumulative length maintained (km) 200    400    600    600    600    600    600



- 23 -
REHABILITATION AND REGRAVELLING PROGRAM 1979/80-1985/861/
1977
Fiscal       Road            Length per    Total Length           Traffic    VOC 2/
Year         Section         Section          per Year             VPD         Savings/km
---------- kmo-------------                     -(T Sh'000)
A. Roads to be Rehabilitated
1979/80    AR-7 (i)            70                                  160          80.8
SH-2 (ii)          90                                  121          62.2
160
1980/81    SH-2 (ii)           13                                  121          62.2
DO-3 (ii)         136                                  112          58.0
AR-7 (ii)          21                                   62          25.6
WL-1 (ii)          44                                  115          53.0
MW-2              106                                   90          50.2
-                                                                                             320
1981/82    DO-2 (ii)          140                                    94         49.7
SI-3 (ii)          56                                   95          45.9
SI-I (ii)         124                                   78          44.3
320
1982/83    SI-i (ii)           39                                    78         44.3
TA-3               31                                   85          43.9
DO-4 (ii)          52                                   73          41.5
SI-2 (ii)         115                                   73          39.5
AR-6               83                                   68          36.3
320
1983/84    AR-6                46                                   68          36.3
TA-4 (ii)         111                                   73         35.9
MW-1                3                                   66          31.5
160
1984/85    MW-1                27                                   66          31.5
TA-2               53                                   47         23.8
80
1985/86    TA-2                 4                                   47          23.8
wL-2               31                                   39         19.3
RU-1               45                                   29         12.1
80
Grand Total         1,440
B. Roads to be Regravelled
1979/80    WL-3 (ii)           42                                  203         92.7
AR-3 (ii)           8                                  118         64.6
50
1980/81    AR-3 (ii)           52                                  118         64.6
MA-2               48                                   72         37.5
100
1981/82    MA-2               100                                   72         37.5
100
1982/83    MA-2                 6                                   72         37.5
DO-1 (ii)          94                                  46          26.7
100
1983/84    DO-1 (ii)          100                                  46          26.7
100
1984/85    DO-1 (ii)           16                                  46          26.7
r.T_I4             84                                  39          22.2
100
1985/86    WL-4                31                                  39          22.2
AR-4               19                                  33         17.4
50
Grand Total         600
1/ See Annex 1 for identification of, and details on, individual road sections.
2/  Total annual vehicle operating cost savings per km, in 1977, ff roads had been
in good condition.



- 24 -
Production rates are estimated as follows: for each regravelling unit, approxi-
mately 50 km per year; and for each rehabilitation unit, about 80 km per year.
These rates are based on recent experience under the Fourth Highway Project,
the performance of betterment and maintenance units in several rural areas and
discussions between MOW and Association staff. They are realistic estimates
and include some provision for variation and slippage. As roads are regravelled
or rehabilitated, the project provides for progressive reduction in the number
of rehabilitation and regravelling units and their reform into routine mainte-
nance units for the improved roads. In addition to the 16 routine maintenance
units to be established by 1981/82, 10 more units will ultimately be formed
following conversion of two rehabilitation units in 1983/84, one in 1984/85
and a regravelling unit in 1985/86.  The production rate for routine main-
tenance of bitumen roads is estimated at about 100 km per unit. As the highest
priority gravel and earth roads are rehabilitated or regravelled, they will be
taken over for maintenance by the routine maintenance crews established under
the project, and it is expected that each of these units will maintain about
80 km of rehabilitated or regravelled roads. As these maintenance units are
established and equipped and their personnel gain training and experience,
they may be able to extend their operations so that they can maintain some of
the remaining lower priority sections of the trunk road system which do not
need rehabilitation or regravelling immediately. Just what length of road
these units will be able to maintain efficiently is not known as no data
exist on actual production rates for adequate maintenance work on such roads.
Accordingly, provision is made under the proposed project to develop detailed
performance and output reporting procedures which will be monitored during
project supervision to determine optimum locations for base and road camps and
road lengths to be maintained by each unit (para. 3.23).
3.07      To carry out the program, the project includes:
-  procurement of road maintenance and rehabilitation
equipment including an initial stock of spare parts
(paras. 3.08-3.09);
-  procurement of zonal workshop equipment and tools
(para. 3.10);
-  construction of base and road camps for the various
project crews (para. 3.11);
-  procurement of an initial stock of road maintenance
materials such as bitumen and culverts (para. 3.12);
-  a pilot program for regional roads maintenance
(para. 3.13); and
-  technical assistance and training (paras. 3.14-3.19).



- 25 -
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Equipment
3.08      Trunk road maintenance in the northern and western areas of the
country suffers from insufficient equipment and vehicles and poor facilities
to repair, maintain and service these items. The existing equipment held by
the regions is used for the maintenance of all roads within the region and at
times is also required in other regional work for schools, hospitals, crop
movement, etc. The project provides for the procurement of road maintenance
equipment, vehicles, mobile workshops and workshop equipment, mechanics' tool
sets and a two-way radio communication system to be used exclusively on trunk
road maintenance and rehabilitation (para. 2.13).  Annex 2 gives a list of the
type, numbers and cost of equipment to be purchased. The project also provides
an initial stock of spare parts for new equipment.
3.09      The list of equipment to be purchased was defined by ORT and MOW
with the assistance of Association staff on the basis of an assessment made
under the Fourth Highway Project of total equipment needs and manning sche-
dules for various types of road units (Annex 3).
Zonal Workshop Equipment
3.10      MOW, which has inadequate and poorly-equipped workshops, is embark-
ing on a program of building and equipping a number of zonal workshops
throughout the country, financed largely from its own resources. Since MOW is
responsible for servicing, repair and overhaul of most of the country's heavy
equipment, including that for other ministries, the workshops will not be
dealing exclusively with road maintenance equipment. To help these workshops
handle the particular requirements of road maintenance equipment, the proposed
project provides a notional amount for the purchase of specialized tools and
equipment. Specific items to be financed will be decided when the number and
type of shops are determined. Agreement was reached that technical specifica-
tions and lists of equipment to be purchased for the zonal workshops shall be
submitted to the Association for its review and approval (para. 5.01(e)).
Construction of Base and Road Camps
3.11      The creation of new maintenance, regravelling and rehabilitation
units for trunk roads will create a need for camps and depots from which
the units will operate, and the project provides 'inancial assistance for
this. The exact locations, designs and construction details will form part
of the detailed project implementation program (para. 3.05) to be submitted
for the Association's review by April 30 of each year during project imple-
mentation, starting in 1979 (para. 5.01(d)).
Road Maintenance Materials
3.12      Road maintenance in Tanzania has been suffering from the lack of
sufficient and appropriate materials; the project will accordingly provide
financial assistance for purchasing an initial stock of the following essen--
tial requirements: 2,500 tons of bitumen; 250 tons of steel reinforcement;
100 tons of steel plate; 2,500 m of steel culverts; and 5 tons of explosives
and detonators.



- 26 -
Pilot Program for Regional Road Maintenance
3.13      Maintenance of regional roads is poor because regional authorities
lack the skills and resources to adequately maintain the roads under their
jurisdiction (para. 2.36). Government therefore wishes to undertake a pilot
program in the regions of Mwanza and Zanzibar to determine how regional road
maintenance management and operations might be improved. The project will
assist the pilot program by financing the purchase of spare parts and the
rehabilitation of existing equipment. Experts provided to MOW under the
project (para. 3.15) will also advise the pilot regions in technical matters
and assist them to improve planning and management of rural road maintenance
and to determine a satisfactory level of recurrent cost funding to continue
adequate maintenance. These experts will also assist the regions to assess
and, where feasible, introduce more appropriate technologies, including better
mixes of labor and capital, for their road maintenance operations. Training
of regional equipment operators, workshop personnel and key road maintenance
staff will be given at the Morogoro Training School. Government has agreed
that by December 31, 1979 it will submit to the Association, for its review
and approval, a detailed implementation program for the Pilot Regional Pro-
gram, including a list of spare parts for repair and rehabilitation of exist-
ing regional equipment and a plan for deploying technical assistance (para.
5.01(f)).
Technical Assistance and Training
3.14      Road maintenance suffers because of the serious lack of trained
personnel at all levels of MOW's maintenance organization (paras. 2.14-2.17);
the project therefore provides financing for technical assistance and training
as follows:
(a)  18 technical experts for a total of 498 man-months to provide on-
the-job training and advice to MOW staff and field personnel;
(b)  4 instructors for a total of 90 man-months and teaching
aids for MOW's Morogoro Training School for training of
plant and vehicle mechanics, operators and drivers as well
as road foremen and supervisors; and
(d) the training of about 120 engineers.
3.15      Altogether, 612 man-months of technical assistance are included
in the project for a three-year period (1979-1981) as summarized below:



- 27 -
Program                             No.        Man-months
Road Maintenance Program
Advisors to:
Maintenance Management Engineer               1             36
Maintenance Administrator                     1             36
Plant and Procurement Engineer                1             36
Mechanical Supervisor                         1             30
Bridge and Culvert Superintendent             1            24
Trunk Road Maintenance Superintendent         5            132
Equipment Service Manager                     5            126
Roadworks Superintendent                      3            78
Subtotal       18            498
Morogoro Training School
Advisors to:
Training Coordinator                          1            24
Mechanics Instructor                          1             24
Roadworks Instructor                          1             18
Electrical Systems Instructor                 1            24
Subtotal        4             90
TOTAL          22            588
In addition, financial assistance is included for the equivalent of a further
24 man-months of technical assistance or consultants' services for planning.
Road Maintenance Program
3.16      In order not to delay the project, it will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness that advisors to the Maintenance Management Engineer, the
Maintenance Administrator and the Plant and Procurement Engineer have been
recruited and are in post to plan and initiate project implementation details,
to prepare specifications and bid documents for equipment procurement, and if
practicable to initiate the international competitive bidding process (para.
5.02).  Retroactive financing of expenditure for these early recruits may be
required and is proposed (para. 3.27(f)).
3.17      Technical experts will be provided to assist, train and counsel MOW
staff and provide on-the-job training for the crews and units within their
purview.  Terms of reference for technical assistance to MOW under the project
have been drafted based on experiences under the Fourth Highway Project and
are included in the Project File (see Annex 5, No. C-3). The terms of refer-
ence were discussed with Government which agreed that suitably qualified
experts will be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 5.01(g)). Due to the severe shortage of appropriate
housing in Tanzania (para. 2.33), the project helps to finance 16 houses for
the technical experts engaged. In view of the problems under the Fourth
Highway Project in assigning and appointing local staff to fill vacancies in
MOW's Maintenance Section, it will be a condition of Credit effectiveness that



- 28 -
MOW executive staff, having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association, have been appointed and are in post for the positions of
Maintenance Management Engineer, Maintenance Administrator, Plant and Procure-
ment Engineer, Mechanical Supervisor, one Trunk Road Maintenance Superintendent
and one Roadworks Superintendent (para. 5.03). In addition, Government agreed
to appoint all local staff, having qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association, to each position in MOW's Road Maintenance Section for
which advisors are to be provided, prior to the date when such advisors are
employed but in any event not later than December 31, 1979 (para. 5.01(h)). It
was further agreed that Government will review MOW's staffing in order to
improve manpower allocation and utilization within the Ministry and by March
31, 1979 furnish the results and recommendations of that review to the Associa-
tion for comment (para 5.01(i)).
Morogoro Training School
3.18      On-the-job training provided by the maintenance experts will be
supplemented by formal training courses given at MOW's Morogoro Training
School, for which instructors and training aids were financed under the
ongoing project. Provision is included in the proposed project for additional
training aids and the continuation, for a further two years, of advisors to
the training coordinator, mechanics instructor and roadworks instructor as
well as the addition of an advisor to the instructor for plant and automotive
electrical systems. Terms of reference for technical assistance provided to
the Training School will be similar to those used under the Fourth Highway
Project, and agreement was obtained from Government that suitably qualified
experts will be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 5.01(g)). In view of the problems in recruiting trainees
for the School, it will be a condition of Credit disbursement for all tech-
nical assistance to the Morogoro Training School that a two-year program,
satisfactory to the Association, will have been prepared for the recruitment
and training of trainees to attend the School (para. 5.04).
Training of Engineers
3.19      Since the exodus of expatriate engineers in the early 1970s, MOW
has been seriously short of qualified and experienced engineers.  In view
of the low number of engineers graduating from Dar es Salaam University, the
low proportion of these allocated to MOW and the normal attrition of MOW's
present staff, the Ministry will have trouble maintaining even its present
low engineering strength. A major effort is required to boost the number of
engineers in MOW; thus the project provides for the training of about 120
engineers in four-year engineering courses at the Roorkee University in India
or an equivalent institution. High school graduates will be recruited or,
when they are already employed by MOW, reassigned to study from July 1979
onwards. No problem in securing a sufficient number of candidates is expected
since the program will be phased over several years. MOW will subsequently
gain about 120 qualified engineers who, when experienced, will satisfy most of
MOW's backlog of needs for qualified staff and significantly help to reduce
its dependence on expatriates. Agreement was obtained from Government that by



- 29 -
June 1, 1979 it would make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
the training for MOW of about 120 high school graduates in an engineering
program at appropriate insitutions of higher education (para. 5.01(j)).
D. Cost Estimates
3.20               Total project capital costs, including contingencies, are estimated
at US$25.71 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$20.65
million or 80% of the total cost. The project will be exempt from taxation.
A breakdown of capital costs (in January 1979 prices) plus contingencies is
shown below and the estimated annual expenditures, both capital and recurrent,
follow.
Foreign
Item                              Local    Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign    Total             Exchange
----(T Sh million)                  ----(US$ million)------                  %
(a) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Equipment,including spare parts                        6.96      89.07       96.03         0.87      11.13       12.00            93%
(b)   Zonal Workshop Equipment                               0.28        4.67       4.95         0.04        0.58       0.62            94%
(c)   Construction of Base and Road Camps                   16.24        2.86      19.10         2.03        0.36       2.39            15%
(d)   Road Maintenance Materials                             3.14        4.92       8.06         0.39        0.62       1.01            61%
(e) Rehabilitation of Existing Regional
Equipment -Pilot Program                               0.20        3.32       3.52         0.02       0.42        0.44           95%
(f) Technical Assistance and Training
(t) Technical assistance for planning
and road maintenance                            0.97       19.39      20.36         0.12        2.43       2.55            95%
(ii) Instructors for Morogoro Training
Bcbool                                          0.17        3.36        3.53        0.02        0.42       0.44            95%
(iii)   Training aids                                    0.05        0.75       0.80         0.01        0.09       0.10           90%
(iv) Provision of housing for technical
experts                                         2.40        1.60       4.00         0.30        0.20       0.50           40%
Cv)   Training of engineers                            0.49       9.96      10.45         0.06        1.25       1.31            95%
Sub-total                       30.90    139.90    170.80            3.86      17.50      21.36            82%
(g) Contingencies
Ci)  Physical 10% on Items (c) to (f)                  2.38       4.92        7.30        0.30       0.61        0.91
(ii) Price:
-  Items (a) and (b)- see para.
3.21(d)                                     1.41      10.33       11.74         0.18       1.2Y        1.47
-  Items (c) to (f)  - see para.
3.21(d)                                     5.75       9.97       15.72        0.72        1.25       1.97
Total capital costs                    40.44    165.12    205.56            5.06      20.65       25.71           80%



ELtimated Annual Expenditures .  C.  itl and Retotrensl
(T Sh lillIonl)
1979/80                   1980/81                    1981/82                  1982/83                    1983/84                    1984/85                   1985/86                          TOrAL
Itee                                                   l   Lc    Forig   Total   Local  Foein  Toa    Lol  Foeign  Total   Loc                     F ign   Total        al   Fore-ign  Tonal t oal       Foreign  Total    Loca   Foreton   Tntet
A.  Capital  tpondiaare
K- -ainte-e Eqoip.,tn-l.par-  poem.                 3.38   46.38   49.76      2.09   27.12   29.21    1.49   15.57   17.06          -        -       -         -         -      -        -       -         -        -        -        -        6.96   89.07    96.03
(b) 2ane1 Workahnp Eqaipmen                        1.09    1.56    1.65    0.10        1.55     1.65    8.89     1.16    1.65       -        -      _                           _                _         _        _       _        _ -.28    4.67              4.95
(c) Cnna.rot tion or Road Campa                    6.46     1.14    7.60    3.74    0.66    4.40    6.04         1.06    7.10       -        -      -         -         -       -        -       -         -        _                        16.24    2.86      19.18
(d) Road Molotnoance -latortala                    0.63    1.48    2.11    0.77    1.79    2.56         1.74     1.65    3.39       -        -      -         -         -       -        -       -         -        -        -        -        3.14    4.92      8.06
(e/ Rohabilitoi-on ont Enist-g Regional
Eqoip-ent - 2ilot Inogrtc                                -        -      o.1       1.66    1.76    0.10      1.66    1.76       -       -       -         -         -       -        -       -         -        -                         0.20      3.32      3.52
(f) Technical An.ionante and Tr-iging
(i) Technic-l Aaatata-e  far pla.nnig           0.13    2.74    2.87      0.42    8.43    8.85    0.42    8.22    8.64                                                                                                                     0.97    19.39    20.36
and road   iati..aanee
(ii) In-tenctorn tot Morogoeo Training
SthoIl,                                     0.02    0.40    0.42    0.08    1.58    1.66    0.07          1.38    1.45               -       -         -         -      -        -        -        -        -        -                 0.17     3.36      3.53
(iii) Training Aid.                               0.03    0.42    0.45    0.11    0.17    0.18    0.01          0.16    0.17       .       _       _                           _        _ -               _        _ -                       0.05     8,75      0.80
(iv) Frovinion ot ho.n.ig For technlcal
exper-s                            1.50    1.00    2.50    0.90    1.60    1.50          -        -        -       -        -       -         -         -      -        -        -        -                 _                 2.40    1.60       4.00
(v) Training ot enginer                          -        -        -      0.14    2.99    3.13    0.o0        1.99    2.09   0.10      1.99    2.09       0.15   2,99    3.14         -        -       -        -        -        -        0.49    9.96    10.45
Snb-tonol                     12.24   55.12   67.36    8.35   46.55   34.90   10.06   33.25   43.3t   0.10    1.99    2.09               0.15   2.99    3.14        -        _        -        _        -        _       30.90  139.90   170.80
g) ContlngetwlPa
L)  Phy.ical on Itean  (c)-(f)                 0.89    0.90      1.79    0.60     1.88    2.50    0.85    1.73    2.58    0.01    0.16   0.17            0.01      0.25   0.26      -        -        -        -                          2.38    4.92       7.30
£1)  FrIto - IsaItn (a) 6 (b)                   0.39    3.16    3.5o    0.49    3.74    4.23    0.53    3.43           3.96          -            -           -      -                -        - -  -                                       1.41   10.33    11.74
- Item   ( t) so (f)                1.06    0.58    1.64    1.49    2.89    4.38    3.07    3.94    7.01    0.04    0.91   0.95               0.09      1.65   1.74                         -                         -        575    9.97    1572
Sub-totlt                    2.34    4.64    6.98    2.60    8.51   11.11    4.4S    9.10   13.55    0.05    1.07   1.12              0.10      1.90   2.00       _        -                          -                 9.54   25.22      34.76
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS
(NET OF TAXES)                      14.58   59.76   74.34      2.2t     66.01   14.51   42                 56.86    0.±5 15     i              L -  0    4                                  - 5 1_                              40.44  165.12   205.56
B.  Recurrent Eapenditnen-
)  SaIari-a and Wtgee                             4.04       .      4.04    6.46       -      6.46    8.54       -       9.54    8.54      -      8.54      8.54       -      8.54    0.54       -      8.54     8.54      -       8.54     53.20      -       53.20
b)  TIla.ne AoaOS(Orog-r)                          1.31              1.31    1.31              1.31    1.31        .      1.31    1.31             1.31      1.31       -      1.31    1.31       -      1.31    1.31        .      1.31      9.17       -       9.17
c)  offTni   Oivolnhad                             0.27              0.27    0.39       -      0.39    0.49               0.49    0.49             0.49      0.49             0.49      0.49             0.49    0.49               0.49      3.11                3.11
d) EquipolFnt operation aed hand tonIs
i)  FoI, oil, hbnd tool.                       1.96    4.57    6.53      3.26    7.62   10.88    4.24    9.90   14.14    4.15    9.68  13.83             4.04      9.44  13.48     4.00     9.33   13.33    4.00       9.33   13.33      25.65   59.87    95.52
ii)  Replaclet part                                                -      0.17    2.89    3.06    0.18        3.00    3.18    0.62   10.48  11.10        0.18       3,00   3.18    0.18      3.00    3.18    0.18    3.00    3.18          I.51   25.37    26.88
Sob-total                   7.58    4.57   12.15   11 59   10.51   22.10   14.76   12.90   27.66   15.11   20.16  35 27    14.56    12.44  27.00   14.52   12.33   26.85   14.52   12.33   36.85    92.64   85.24   177.88
e) Conting-ncio
i)  Thysi-l1                                   0.76    0.46    1.22      1.16    1.05    2.21       1.48    1.29    2.77      1.51    2.02   3.53       1.46       1.24   2.70    1.45      1.23    2.68    1.45       1.23    2.68       9.27    8.52    17.79
ii)  Pcie                                       0.84    0.50    1.34    2.56    1.97    4.53    4.89          3.50    8.39      6.60    7.26  13.86       8.04      5.66  13.70    9.62    6.87   16.69   11.76         8.21   19,97    44,51    33.97       78.48
Sob-total                   1.60    0.96    2.56    3.72    3.02    6 74    6 37    4.79   11 16    8.11    9.28  17.39               9.50      6.90  16.40   I1.27    8.10   19.37    13.21    9. 44   22.65         53.78   42.49    96.27
TCTAL RECUTRENT COSTS
(NET OF TAXES)                       9.18    5.53  214.71   15.         1 133   28.84    113    7.69   38.82   23.22   29.44 266              24.06     19.34   3.40    079   243   46 22   27. 73   21.77   49.              146.42  127.73   274.15



- 31 -
3.21      Project costs have been derived as follows:
(a)  Road Maintenance, Rehabilitation and Zonal Workshop Equipment;
Base and Road Camps; Road Maintenance Materials and
Training Aids: based on actual costs and bid prices under
the Fourth Highway Project and recent quotations from
Tanzanian suppliers which were adjusted to reflect antfcipated
c.i.f. Dar es Salaam prices in January 1979, and have been
found reasonable;
(b)  Rehabilitation of Existing Regional Equipment - Pilot
Program: assessed as a notional amount of US$440,000 for
repair and rehabilitation of road maintenance equipment
in two regions;
(c)  Technical Assistance and Training:
(i) Technical Assistance for Planning and Road Maintenance
Program: includes 522 man-months over a 3-year period,
at a net average of US$4,900 per man-month, covering
salaries, overhead, fees, and transportation, based on
costs under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project and a
Trucking Industry Project;
(ii) Instructors for Morogoro Training School: includes
90 man-months over a 3-year period, at a net average
of US$4,900 per man-month, covering salaries, overhead,
fees, and transportation, based on costs under the on-
going projects;
(iii) Housing for Technical Experts: includes 16 Grade
A houses in accordance with Government standards for
housing expatriate technical assistance, which are
satisfactory; based on bids under an ongoing IDA
project, at a net average cost of US$31,000 per house;
(iv) Training of Engineers: includes four years of training
for about 120 students at an Indian or other appropriate
university, at a net average of US$2,750 per student per
year.  Costs are based on the actual costs of a similar
program by the Tanzanian Ministry of Water, Energy and
Minerals and updated by more recent information from
the Indian Embassy in Tanzania;
(d)  Contingencies:  the cost estimates include physical con-
tingencies of 10% on all but road maintenance and workshop
equipment and initial spare parts. In addition, a provi-
sion is made for price variation based on the following
price escalation rates applied to local and foreign costs:



- 32 -
Civil Works and Technical
Equipment       Assistance and Training
Local  Foreign      Local          Foreign
_____    %  ------  - - - - - %   -  - - -
1979          11.0      6.5        11.0             7.5
1980          10.0      6.0        10.0             7.0
1981            9.0     6.0         9.0             7.0
1982 to 1986   8.0      6.0         8.0             7.0
E. Financing
3.22      The proposed IDA credit would finance US$20.5 million or over
99% of the foreign exchange component of the project's capital costs.
The Government will finance the remaining capital costs of the project,
US$5.21 million, as well as recurrent expenditures estimated at US$34.27
million equivalent over the estimated seven-year life of the equipment
to be financed under the project.
F. Execution
3.23      The MOW, assisted by technical experts to be provided under the
project, will be responsible for project execution. Under the decentralized
system extant in Tanzania, all maintenance units will be supervised by Trunk
Road Maintenance Engineers to be appointed by MOW. Regravelling and re-
habilitation units, the bridge and culvert crew, the ancillary equipment unit
and the specialized asphalt and quarrying units will be directly responsible
to MOW. Project implementation is scheduled to start in mid-1979 and end in
1984, although the road maintenance equipment will continue to be operational
through 1986. An implementation schedule (Chart 2), and detailed performance
and output reporting requirements (Annex 4) were discussed with, and accepted
as reasonable by, Government. Agreement was reached that a completion report,
in a form satisfactory to the Association, will be submitted promptly after
completion of the project, but in any event not later than three months after
the Closing Date (para. 5.01(k)).
G. Procurement
3.24      The new road maintenance and workshop equipment (except as provided
below) including a supply of spare parts, estimated to cost about US$12.6 mil-
lion equivalent, excluding contingencies, will be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines,
with separate contracts for each type or group of similar types of equipment.
Equipment suppliers will be required to provide an adequate organization for
commissioning and warranty servicing, including warranty servicing in the field
where equipment is based away from its Tanzanian headquarters. They will also



- 33 -
be required to maintain a reasonable inventory of spare parts in Tanzania and
to provide training of mechanics, service personnel and equipment operators.
3.25      The training aids for the Morogoro Training School and the spare
parts for rehabilitation of existing equipment for the Pilot Program, esti--
mated to cost about US$540,000 excluding contingencies, would involve a
number of relatively minor individual purchases for specialized items that
would not attract international competition. The technical assistance in-
structors will prepare details and specifications for the training aids re-
quired and after agreement with the Association the aids will be procured
by calling competitive quotations from established suppliers within the
country and abroad in accordance with Government procurement procedures
which are satisfactory. For spare parts for the Pilot Program, estimated
to cost US$440,000 excluding contingencies, MOW will be assisted by the
regions and project-financed technical experts to prepare a list of spare
parts together with a program and estimates for repair and rehabilitation of
existing regional equipment. Following discussion and agreement with the
Association on the list of spare parts, the program and estimates (para. 5.01
(f)), the required spare parts and repair services will be procured through
local representatives of the equipment suppliers using local procurement
procedures which are satisfactory. Road maintenance materials, estimated t:o
cost US$1.01 million excluding contingencies, will be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Base and road camps, plans for which
will be reviewed by the Association (paras. 3.11 and 5.01(d)), are estimated
to cost about US$2.39 million excluding contingencies. The camps will be
simple, mainly requiring only low-standard construction, and will be located
in various rural locations. Since their construction is unlikely to attract
international competition, they will be built by local contractors after local
competitive bidding or, if the Association should so agree, by force account.
Housing for technical experts, estimated to cost about US$500,000 excluding
contingencies, will be located in Dar es Salaam and several rural centers and
is unlikely to attract international competition. Houses will be built by
local contractors after competitive bidding, or if the Association should
so agree, by force account.
3.26      Government has agreed that the road maintenance and rehabilitatic,n
equipment, including related workshop equipment, spare parts and tools, will
only be deployed for use after: (a) for the ancillary plant pool, the advisor
to the Mechanical Supervisor is in post; and (b) for road maintenance, rehabil-
itation and regravelling crews, the respective advisors for the trunk road
maintenance superintendents, roadworks superintendents and equipment service
managers are in post (para. 5.01(1)). Procurement of off-the-shelf items
costing less than US$15,000 each may follow normal Government procurement
procedures and conditions which are acceptable to the Association; the total
amount of such purchases should not exceed US$200,000. Agreement to this
effect was obtained from Government (para. 5.01(m)).



- 34 -
H. Disbursements
3.27      Credit funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for road maintenance and
zonal workshop equipment and vehicles, materials, tools,
training aids and spare parts imported directly from abroad;
(b)  70% of expenditures for road maintenance and zonal workshop
equipment and vehicles, materials, tools, training aids and
spare parts imported and procured locally;
(c)  15% of total expenditures for road camp construction;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and training
costs;
(e)  40% of total expenditures for housing constructed for technical
experts; and
(f)  retroactive financing of US$40,000 to cover the cost of employing
up to three technical experts for about two months prior to Credit
signing for project implementation planning and procurement document
preparation.
All disbursements would be fully documented, although if MOW undertakes work
by force account for categories (c) and (e), disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure to be certified by the Director of Roads and
Aerodromes of MOW; these would be retained by MOW and made available to IDA
for inspection in the course of normal project supervision.
3.28      A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown below.



- 35 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursments
IDA Fiscal Year         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter               at end of Quarter
(US$ thousands)
1979/80
First                             50
Second                           100
Third                            200
Fourth                           500
1980/81
First                          1,000
Second                         2,000
Third                          3,500
Fourth                         5,100
1981/82
First                          7,000
Second                         8,000
Third                          9,000
Fourth                        10,200
1982/83
First                         11,000
Second                        12,000
Third                         13,000
Fourth                        14,300
1983/84
First                         16,000
Second                        17,000
Third                         18,000
Fourth                        19,000
1984/85
First                         20,000
Second                        20,500
Source:  Mission estimates, 1978.
I. Environmental Aspects
3.29      The project is not expected to have any detrimental impact on the
environment. In fact, soil erosion on project roads will be less than at
present as drainage facilities (culverts, ditches) are rehabilitated and
better maintained. Also, dust formation on the project roads during the dry
season will be lower as a result of an adequate layer of gravel on the roads;
improved visibility, safety and comfort should result.



- 36 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
4.01       The two main objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to
improve the condition of the trunk road network in northern and western Tanzania
in order to reduce transport costs and to promote economic development; and
(b) to increase the country's long-run road maintenance capability through
formal education and on-the-job training of local road maintenance personnel
at all levels. These are essentially the same objectives as those of the
ongoing highway maintenance project which focuses on the eastern and southern
half of the country.
4.02       Proper maintenance of roads is vital in Tanzania where major up-
grading is often not justified because of low traffic levels, yet the widely
scattered population must rely solely on roads to transport agricultural in-
puts (fertilizer, seeds, etc.) and production as well as to reach health and
education facilities and other Government services. The project encompasses
an area of 500,000 sq km (see map) with a population of 8 million and a
marketed agricultural production of a million tons a year (60% of the national
total). The main marketed products, accounting for some 800,000 tons annually,
are: cereals (maize, wheat), cassava/potatoes, bananas and cotton. Other
important products are: sugar, coffee, beans, and sisal. Roads included in
the project have been identified by Government and IDA staff as crucial
transport arteries in the areas served and in conditions warranting urgent
routine or periodic maintenance.
4.03       The area's agricultural potential is currently being assisted by
projects funded by several bilateral and multilateral agencies. The Associa-
tion is helping in this effort by financing a tea project (Cr. 287-TA), a
livestock project (Cr. 382-TA), three rural development projects in Kigoma
(Cr. 508-TA), Tabora (Cr. 703-TA), and Mwanza/Shinyanga (Cr. 803-TA), three
tobacco projects (Cr. 217-TA, Cr. 658-TA, Cr. 802-TA), the Geita Cotton proj-
ect (Cr. 454-TA), a dairy project (Cr. 580-TA), and a national maize project
(Cr. 606-TA).
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.04      Benefits have been calculated for the rehabilitation (1,440 km)
and regravelling (600 km) of earth or gravel roads as well as the routine
maintenance of 600 km of bitumen roads, and consist of savings in vehicle
operating costs (VOC) for the projected traffic using the roads so main-
tained. These savings will directly accrue to transport operators, both
private and public, and thereafter will be passed on to transport users,
mainly farmers and bus passengers, since rates and fares for intercity road
transport are generally cost-based as a result of competition between trans-
porters.



- 37 -
4.05      Benefits of helping to create a road maintenance capability in
Tanzania are not quantified, but in the long-run economic as well as political
perspective are probably at least as important as the short-term benefits
resulting from upgrading the road network and reducing transport costs. Also
unquantified are the benefits that transport users will reap in the form of
a more reliable, faster, and, in the case of passengers, more comfortable
transport service.
C. Economic Analysis
4.06      Total vehicle operating cost savings were calculated for the 7-
year period corresponding to the economic life of the equipment financed
under the project. To quantify these savings, vehicle operating costs (such
as fuel and oil consumption, tire wear, vehicle maintenance and depreciation)
were first estimated for various vehicle types (passenger cars, pickups/land-
rovers, 9-ton trucks and 50-passenger buses) on two road types (bitumen and
gravel), considering road condition (good, fair and poor) and taking into
account the type of terrain (flat to rolling and rolling to hilly).
Vehicle Operating Costs
(T Sh/100 veh-km)
Type and Condition                    Pickups/        Trucks         Buses *
of Road              Cars       Landrovers      (9-ton)   (50 Passengers)
A. Flat to Rolling Terrain
Bitumen:
- Good                     68             77            198            214
- Fair                     85             97            247            267
- Poor                     116           132            336            362
Gravel
- Good                     79             91            255            279
- Fair                    104            118            332            363
- Poor                    139            160            447            489
B.  Rolling to Hilly Terrain
Bitumen:
- Good                     70             79            200            216
- Fair                     89            100            251            270
- Poor                    121            136            340            368
Gravel
- Good                     82             93            274            284
- Fair                    106            121            357           369
- Poor                    143            163            480           497
Note: Costs are net of taxes and duties.
Source: Lyon Associates, Inc., "Economic and Engineering Study, Tanzania
Highway Maintenance and Organization", 1972; Japan International
Cooperation Agency, "Vehicle Operating Costs on Southern Link Road
Project", 1976; and mission estimates.



- 38 -
4.07      Unit savings were then calculated for each of the roads to be re-
habilitated, regravelled or maintained under the project. As a result of
rehabilitation, regravelling or routine maintenance, the road condition is
restored to "good" and savings in vehicle operating costs are realized. 1/
These unit savings were then multiplied by the projected traffic volumes
taking into account the actual traffic volumes on the road in 1977 (Annex 1),
plus a 3% annual growth rate thereafter, based on the expected growth in
agricultural production, population, and income in the area. On the basis of
these benefits, the capital costs of the project, and the additional recurrent
cost to be incurred, the project's economic rate of return is 70% and the
benefit/cost ratio is 2.8:1 assuming a 10% cost of capital. Introduction of a
shadow rate of exchange (50% above the official rate: T Sh 12 per US dollar)
does not affect the project's economic rate of return or the benefit/cost
ratio.
Economic Costs and Benefits of the Project
(T Sh million)
Savings
Increased       in Vehicle            Net
Capital         Recurrent        Operating           (Costs)
Year            Costs            Costs            Costs            Benefits
1980c            71.3             10.9               -              (82.2)
1981             58.3             19.3             79.1               1.5
1982             45.4             21.7            113.3              46.2
1983              1.9             29.4            147.9             116.6
1984              2.9             19.3            173.1             150.9
1985                -             18.3            197.4             179.1
1986                              18.0            199.4             181.4
1987            (17.4) 2/            -            206.3            223.7
Economic Rate of Return = 70%
Benefit/Cost Ratio = 2.8:1 (based on 10% discount rate)
Sensitivity analysis:
Cost 25% up
Savings 20% down
Economic Rate of Return = 39%
Benefit/Cost Ratio = 1.8:1 (based on 10% discount rate)
1/   Unit vehicle operating costs savings for "gravel" roads (see table,
para. 4.06) have been used in calculating the savings resulting from
upgrading "gravel or earth" roads. This, of course, leads to some
underestimation of the savings which will actually be realized.
2/   Residual value of equipment.



- 39 -
4.08      In addition, a separate analysis was made of costs and benefits
of the "marginal" road sections included in the rehabilitation and regravel-
ling program (see table on page 23), i.e., those sections which have the
lowest priority (and return) and are scheduled for implementation in 1986.
The marginal road section in the rehabilitation program (RU-i) yields a rate
of return of 13% (a benefit/cost ratio of 1.1:1 based on a 10% di3count rate)
while the marginal section in the regravelling program (AR-4) has a return
of 38% (a benefit/cost ratio of 1.9:1 based on a 10% discount rate) and both
are thus economically justified on their own merits.
D. Risks
4.09      Because of the project's high rate of return, the risk of misallo-
cation of resources is minimal. No special problems are expected in the
procurement of equipment; delays in procurement, as were experienced under the
ongoing Fourth Highway project, are expected to be avoided because experience
in procurement was gained under that project and a procurement adviser will be
provided under the proposed project. The cost estimates, as they are based on
recent quotations, bids and costs, plus the contingencies provided for, should
cover actual expenditures. Barring a major national economic setback or a
drastic change in national priorities, Government should be in a position to
provide the necessary local finance (capital and recurrent) to implement the
project on schedule, especially since the 1977/78 recurrent budget allocation.
for road maintenance was underspent. Unit vehicle operating cost savings are
conservatively estimated and probably understate the actual unit savings.
Traffic projections are admittedly uncertain, but chances of a significant
overestimation are slim since the projections are based on available actual
traffic counts in combination with a modest annual growth rate (3%) over a
relatively short period of time (until 1987).
4.10      However, based on experience with the ongoing highway maintenance
project, staffing arrangements pose some risk. Consultants may be slow in
providing the appropriate experts while Government may encounter delays in
expanding its maintenance staff and providing the counterparts to be trained.,
In addition, selection of candidates to be trained as operators may be slow
or otherwise less than optimal. This risk remains although the recent assign-
ment and posting of most of the required local staff under the Fourth Highway
Project indicates an increasing Government concern with improving road mainte-
nance and a commitment to providing the necessary staff and other resources
which minimize the risk to the proposed project. Other project features are
also designed to minimize this risk; that is, close monitoring of project
implementation; the project design which includes retroactive financing of
"advance" experts to help Government prepare the implementation; inclusion
of a housing element; and conservative productivity estimates for the rehabi--
litation, regravelling and routine maintenance units. But, even if staffing
problems arise in the future and cause the output of maintenance to fall below
the projected levels, the project benefits would still be acceptable as
indicated in the following sensitivity analysis.



- 40 -
4.11      Assuming a 25% increase in costs (capital and recurrent) and a
decrease of 20% in benefits (VOC savings), the rate of return declines from
70% to 39% and the benefit/cost ratio from 2.8:1 to 1.8:1. Even under these
assumptions, the project remains economically justified and still has a
comfortable safety margin. Costs could rise by a further 98% or benefits be
lower by a further 35% before the project would become marginal, i.e., would
have a rate of return of 10% (or a benefit/cost ratio of 1:1).
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Agreement has been reached that Government will:
(a) make regular and systematic traffic counts on the trunk road
system (para. 2.02);
(b) by March 31, 1979 adopt a management system including opera-
tional guidelines which would enable MOW to determine and
exercise full authority over trunk road maintenance programs
and to control trunk road maintenance equipment. It was also
agreed that Government, in consultation with the Association,
would develop a program to implement the management system
(para. 2.13);
(c) progressively apply and continue to apply its increased
road maintenance capability to the maintenance of its
trunk road system in accordance with sound engineering
practice and will promptly provide the funds required (para.
2.21);
(d) submit for review a detailed annual project implementation
program to the Association by April 30 of each year during
project implementation, starting in 1979 (paras. 3.05 and
3.11);
(e) during project implementation, submit to the Association for
its review and approval technical specifications and lists of
equipment to be purchased for zonal workshops (para. 3.10);
(f) by December 31, 1979 submit to the Association for its review
and approval a detailed implementation program for the Pilot
Regional Program, including a list of spare parts for repair
and rehabilitation of existing regional equipment and a plan
for deploying technical assistance (paras. 3.13 and 3.25);
(g) employ suitably qualified technical experts under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (paras. 3.17-3.18);



- 41 -
(h)  appoint all local staff, having qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association, to each position in MOW's
Road Maintenance Section for which advisors are to be provided,
prior to the date when such advisors are employed but in any
event not later than December 31, 1979 (para. 3.17);
(i)  review MOW's staffing in order to improve manpower allocation
and utilization within the Ministry and by March 31, 1979 furnish
the results and recommendations of that review to the Association
for comment (para. 3.17);
(j)  by June 1, 1979 make arrangements satisfactory to the Associ-
ation for the training for MOW of about 120 high school graduates
in an engineering program at appropriate institutions of
higher education (para. 3.19);
(k)  submit a completion report, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, promptly after completion of the project,
but in any event not later than three months after the
Closing Date (para. 3.23);
(1)  only deploy road maintenance and rehabilitation equipment,
including related workshop equipment, spare parts and tools,
after the related key technical experts are in post (para.
3.26); and
(m)  follow normal Government procurement procedures and conditions,
which are acceptable to the Association, for procurement of off-
the-shelf items costing less than US$15,000 each; the total
amount of such purchases should not exceed US$200,000
(para. 3.26);
5.02      It will be a condition of Credit effectiveness that advisors to the
Maintenance Management Engineer, the Maintenance Administrator and the Plant
and Procurement Engineer have been recruited and are in post (para. 3.16).
5.03      It will be a further condition of Credit effectiveness that
MOW executive staff, having qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association, have been appointed and are in post for the positions
of Maintenance Management Engineer, Maintenance Administrator, Plant and
Procurement Engineer, Mechanical Supervisor, one Trunk Road Maintenance
Superintendent and one Roadworks Superintendent (para. 3.17).
5.04      It will be a condition of Credit disbursement for all technical
assistance to the Morogoro Training School that a two-year program, satisfactory
to the Association, will have been prepared for the recruitment and training
of trainees to attend the School (para. 3.18).



- 42 -
5.05      Government has also confirmed that it will annually review with the
Association the sufficiency of allocated road maintenance funds. For fiscal
years 1980 through 1983, Government confirmed that a reasonable estimate of
the funds required annually would be T Sh 106 million, T Sh 115 million, T Sh
118 million and T Sh 126 million, respectively, in January 1979 prices.
Government has also confirmed that it will maintain an adequate level of
expenditures in real terms, for trunk road maintenance in the period after
project implementation (para. 2.21).
5.06      With the agreements and under the conditions outlined above, the
project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$20.5 million on standard terms to
the Government of Tanzania.
December 27, 1978



-43-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Inventory and Vehicle Operating Cost Savings
Veh. Op. CDst.
Surface  1/            2/ Traffic   Savings per km
Region            Code                Road Section                  Km        Type   Cond.   Terraitr  vp(, 1977    19773!
(T Sh'000)
ARUSHA            *   AR-1        Arusha-Namanga                          99        B       F         F         248         28.3
*** AR-2       Arusha-Makuyuni                         75         B      F         R         402          54.8
**  AR-3 (i)  Makuyuni-Babati                          32         B      F         H          118         16.7
**      (ii)       l        -                         60         G      P         H         118          64.6
** AR-4       Babati-Dodoma Border                   42         G       P         R          33          17.4
*** AR-5       Kilimaninro Border-Arusha               50         B      P        F/R      1,363        417.8
* AR-6      Babati-Singida Border                  129         C       P        R/H         68         36.3
* AR-7 (i)  Makuyuni-Serengeti Park Gate             70         G      P        R/H        160         80.8
*      (ii)      1         1                        21         G       P        R/H         62         25.6
***      (iii)    "                *                   69         G      P        R/H         10           3.4
Total            647
DODOMA            *** DO-1 (i)  Dodoma-Arusha Border                      11         B      F        F/R        133         17.4
**      (ii)    '                                   210         G       P        F/R         46         26.7
*** DO-2 (i)  Dodoma-Iringa Border                      2         B      F        F/R         94          12.9
*      (ii)    "       "                           140         G       P        F/R         94         49.7
*** DO-3 (i)  Dodoma-Gairo                              2         B      F        F/R        165          22.5
*      (ii)    '       "                           136         G       P        F/R        112         58.0
*** DO-4 (i)  Dodoma-Bahi                               6        B       F        R/H         73         10.7
*      (ii)    '      *                             52         G       P        R/H         73         41.5
Total            559
KIGOMA           **** KG-1       Kanyani-Nyantwiga                      230         G       P        R/H         23         10.7
**** KG-2       Kanyani-Msobwe                          70         G      P        R/P           5          2.7
*** KG-3 (i)  Kigoma-Kanyani                            6         B      F        R/H         60           7.3
(ii)                                         77        G       F        R/H         60          10.6
Total            383
KILIMANJARO       *** KL-1        Himo-Mkomazi                          153         B       F        F/R        502         65.4
*   KL-2       Himo-Moshi                              23         B      F        F/R        892        104.4
*   KL-3       Moshi-Arusha Border                     35         B      F        F/R        941         103.3
*** KL-4       Himo-Klbou                              60         G      F        R/H         84          13.8
*** KL-5       Himo-Taveta                             17         B      F        R/H          84          9.4
Total            288
MARA                   MA-L       Bunda-Mwanza Border                     21      Under Construction
** MA-2       Bunda-Sirari                          154          G      P        R/H         72          37.5
Total            175
Asterisksindicate roads identified as high priority and included under the Project for:
*  rehabilitation and subsequent routine maintenance;
** regravelling and subsequent routine maintenance;
*** routine maintenance only; and
****  routine maintenance only,as maintenance units increase their capacity (see para. 3.06)
1/ Surface Type (1978): B=Bitumen; G-Gravel or Earth
Surface Condition (1978): GCGood; F=Fair; P-Poor
2/ Terrain: F=Flat; R-Rolling; H=Hilly
3/ Total annual vehicle operating cost savings per km, in 1977, if roads would have been in good condition.



-44-                                               ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Veh. Op.Cost
Surface %/               Traffic   Savings per
Region             Code               Road Section                  Km        Type  Cond.  Terrai/?/ vpd. 1977 km, 1977 3/
(T Sh'000)
MWANZA              * MW-i       Geita-Katoro                            30         G      P        F/R         66         31.5
* MW-2      Geita-Usagara                          106         G      P        F/R          90         50.2
*** MW-3 (i)  Usagara-Mwanza-Mara Border              58         B       F        F/R        181         24.5
(ii)     "          "                       98         Under construction
*   MW-4       Usagara-Shinyanga Border               75         G       F        F/R        164         31.8
Total                      367
RIJKWA              * RU-1       Msobwe-Mpanda                         187         G       P        R/H         29         12.1
**** RU-2       Mpanda-Kisi                           115         G       P        R/H         11          4.3
*** RU-3        Mpanda-Tabora Border                  195                 p P      F/R         10          5.0
Total                      497
SHINYANGA         *   SH-1       West Lake Border-Buhegela             185         G       F        F/R         34          7.1
S** SH-2 (i)  Mwanza Border-Tabora Border              3         B       F       F/R        121         16.2
*      (ii)                " "  "      "           103         G      P        F/R        121         62.2
Total                      291
SINGIDA           *** SI-i (i)  Singida-Bahi                              3        B       P        R/H        119         45.2
*      (ii)    I       "                           163         G      P        R/H         78         44.3
*** SI-2 (i)  Singida-Shinyanga Border                 2         B      P        F/R         73         28.8
*      (ii)    I I                                 115         G      p        F/R         73         39.5
*** SI-3 (i)  Singida-Arusha Border                    4         B      P        R/H         95         33.4
*     (ii)    "       "                            56         G      P        R/H         95         45.9
S** I* SI-4     Rungwa-Kilumbi                         85         G       P       R/H         10          4.5
**** SI-5       Jiwe-la-Singa-Issuna                  105         G      P        R/H         10          4.5
Total                      533
TABORA            *** TA-1       Nzega-Singida Border                  103         G       F       F/R          85         18.0
* TA-2      Nzega-Buhegela                          57        G       p        F/R         47         23.8
* TA-3      Nzega-Shinyanga Border                  31        G       p        F/R         85         43.9
** TA-4 (i)  Nzega-Tabora                              4         B      F        F/R         98         12.2
*     (ii)   "       "                           111         G       P        F/R         73         35.9
**** TA-5       Ipole-Rukwa Border                     85         G      P        F/R         10          5.0
**** TA-6       Tabora-Rungwa                         278         G      p        F/R         14          6.1
**** TA-7       Kilumbi-Jiwe-la-Singa                  40         G      p        R/H         10          4.5
Total                      709
WEST LAKE         *** WL-1 (i)  Bukoba-Kyaka                             4         B       F       R/H        115         14.1
*      (ii)    "      "                            44         G       P       R/H        115         53.0
* WL-2      Kyaka-Mutukula                         31         0       p       R/H         39         19.3
*** WL-3 (i)  Bukoba-Mulemba                          17        B       F        R/H        303        33.7
**      (ii)    " I                                 42         G       P       R/H        203         92.7
** WL-4      Mulemba-Biharamulo                    115         G       P       R/H         39         22.2
*** WL-5       Biharamulo-Nyakanazi                   58        G       p       R/H         28         15.4
WL-6      Nyakanazi-Nyantwiga                    29         G       p       R/H         11          5.7
*** WL-7 (i)  Nyakanazi-Shinyanga Border               1        B       F       F/R         10          1.6
(ii)     "          "                       51        G       F       F/R         10          2.4
*** WL-8       Biharamulo-Katoro                     88         G       P       F/R         30         11.9
**** WL-9       Rulenge-Nzaza                         40         G       P       R/H         20          9.4
WL-10     Lusahunga-Rulenge-Rusumo Falls        140         Under construction
Total                      660
For notes, see page 1 of this annex.
Source: Ministry of Works, Ministry of Communications and Transport,and Mission estimates.
December 1978



- 45                                    ANNEX2
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment to be Purchased
Unit (cii')                  Total
Cost     l              oreign Cost _
Item                                               Number      T Sh '000    US$            T Sh '000    US_
Air Tools (sets)                                                      4               7.9          986            31.6       3,944
Angle-dozer with ripper (100-110 HP)                                  6             532.2       66,525        3,193.2    399,150
Arngle-dozer with riuper (180-220 HP)                                  1          1,022.4      127,800        1,022.4    127,800
Hridges (emergency, lightweight)                                      2             498.0       62,250          996.0    124,500
Car, Saloon                                                           1              4Y'.8       6,225           49.8       6,225
Compactor:  - pneumatic tired, 9 wheel, 8-lOt                         6             286.8       35,847        1,720.8    215,082
- steel drum, self-propelled, 6-8t                      16             190.1       23,759        3,041.6    380,144
- vibrating with trailer, 3/4t                           6              60.3        7,542          361.8      45,252
- vibrating drum and wheel, 6-8t                          4            373.5       46,688        1,494.0    186,752
Compressor:  - 250 c.f.m.                                             2              91.3       11,413          182.6      22,826
Crusher:  - lOt/hour - primary crusher                                 1)
- secondary crusher                             1)
Vibrating screens    - screen deck                                    1)            440.4       55,051          440.4      55,051
- diesel motor for crushers and screenE         1)
Grader:  - motor (115-135 IP)                                        26             563.8       70,477       14,658.8  1,832,402
..aboratory:  - soils and materials - field model                     1          1,660.0       207,500        1,660.0    207,500
Loaders:  - front-end - wheeled - 1.5m3                               1            470.2        58,785          470.2      58,785
- wheeled - 2.0m3                             7             633.2       79,151        4,432.4    554,057
- track-mounted - 1.75m3                      1             621.2       77,657          621.2      77,657
Minibus                                                               2              66.4        8,300          132.8      16,600
Mixer:  concrete, 300 1., towed                                       1              97.9       12,243           97.9      12,243
Pulvimixer                                                            1             166.0       20,750          166.o      20,750
Pump:  - water, 3"                                                   29              12.3        1,536          356.7      44,544
Radio - two-way communication system                                  1          1,660.0      207,500         1,660.0    207,500
Sprayer:  - paint (sets)                                              2               4.1          519            8.2       1,038
- bitumen, heater                                          1             102.2       12,782          102.2      12,782
Spreader:  - chipping (towed)                                         1              27.3        3,424           27.3       3,424
Storage heater - bitumen                                              1            111.6       13,954           111.6      1-,954
Survey equipment (set)                                                1             83.0       10,375            83.0      1C,375
Tanks - water (8,000 1.)                                              1             67.4         lo-al  procurement
- fuel storage (4,000 1.)                                      28             20.8        local  procurement
Tools - mechanics (sets)                                             25               8.3       1,038           207.5      25,950
- senior mechanics (sets)                                       2             18.2        2,283           36.4       4,566
Tractors - industrial (80 HP)                                        22            191.7       23,966        4,217.4    527,252
Tractor attachments - bucket                                         22             29.0         3,631          638.0      79,882
- mower (scythe-type)                          22             10.6        1,328           233.2      29,216
- back-hoe                                      2              45.2        5,654           90.4      11,308
Trailer - caravan                                                     8             50.2        6,277           401.6     50,216
-- platform 2m3/3t                                          22             16.6        2,075           365.2     45,650
- tilt-top 20t                                               1             82.3       10,282            82.3     10,282
- water-tank, 2,000 1.                                      29              26.0        local  procurement
Vehicles - truck - breakdown with crane                               1            290.5       36,313          290.5      36,313
- flat-bed, 7t                                      3           106.3       13,280           318.9      39,840
- fuel-tank, 6,000 1.                               4            191.7      23,966           766.8     95,864
- long wheel base, lOt with crane                  2            298.0       37,246           596.o      74,492
- mobile workshop                                  5            542.1       67,832        2,713.5    339,160
- pick-up, 3/4t                                   12             38.9        4,866          466.8      58,392
- pick-up, utility (4 x 4)                        51            110.3       13,783        5,625.3    702,933
- tipper, 7t                                     103            187.3       23,411       19,291.9  2,411,333
- tractor, tandem with low-loader                  2)
trailer (35t)                           2)          725.4       90,678        1,450.8    181,356
- water tank (4,000 1.)                           11            153.2       19,152        1,685.2    210,672
Vibrators - concrete, 1 1/2"                                          3              3.3          415            9.9       1,245
Washing and screening unit (45t/hr.)                                  1            295.9       36,987          295.9      36,987
Welder (300 amp.)                                                     1             32.5        4,067           32.5       4,067
(600 amp.)                                                    1             49.8        6,225           49.8       6,225
Miscellaneous items - (approx. 5%)                                    1            539.5      67,438           539.5      67,438
77,527.8 9,690,976
Spare parts 15% on equipment and tools)                      1,443,275
10% on radio                )
Total              11,134,251
11 Costs are based on estimated prices at January 1979 and an exchange rate of T Sh 8 - US$1.
Source: MOW and mission estimates, 1978
December 1978



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
TANZANIA
FTFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Composition and Equipping of Units
Routine Maintenance Unit - Gravel/Earth Roads             Routine Maintenance Unit - Bitumen (6 No.)                Regraveiling   nit (2 No.)
(16 No.)
Equipment                                                 Equipment                                                 Equipmen,t
I Compactor - steel drum, self propelled, 6-8t            I Compactor, vibrating 3/4t (with trailer)                1 Angle-dozer with ripper (100-110 HP)
I Grader - motor (115-135 HP)                             1 Pump, water, 3"                                         1 Compactor, pneumatic- tired,self-prnpelled,8-IOt
I Pump, water, 3"                                         1Tank, fuel storage, 4,000 1.                             I Grader, sotor (115-135 hP)
1 Tank - feel storage, 4,000 1.                           1 Tools, mechanics (set)                                  I Loader, wheeled, 2m3
I Tools, mechanics (set)                                  1 Tractor, Industrial, 80 HP wf bucket & mower   1 Pump, water, 3"
I Tractor, industrial, 80 HP w/ bucket 6 mower            I Trailer, Platform, 2m3/3t                              1 Truck, water tank, 4,000 1
1 Trailer, placform, 2m3/3t                               I Trailer, water tank. 2,000 1.                           2 Trucks, pick-up, 4 X 4 utility
1 Trailer, water tank, 2,000 1.                           2 Trucks, tipper, 7t                                      I Tools, mechanics (set)
2 Trucks, tippers 7t                                      I Truck, pick-up, 3/4t                                      Trailer,  aravan
I Truck, pick-up, 4 x 4 utility                                                                                    7 Trucks, tipper, 7t
1 Trailer, water tank, 2,000 1.
I Tank, fuel storage, 4,000 1.
Personnel                                                 Personnel                                                Personnel
1 Foreman                                                 1 Foreman                                                1 Foreman
3 plant operators                                         2 Plant operators                                        4 Operators
I Plant attendant                                         3 drivers                                               10 Drivers
3 Drivers                                                 1 Mechanic - Grade III                                   I Mechanic - Grade II
1 Mechanic - Grade III                                   20 Laborers                                               2 Mechanics - Grade III
20 Laborers                                                I Timekeeper/Clerk                                       I Plant attendant
I Timekeeper/Clerk                                                                                                20 Laborers
I Storekeeper
1 Timekeeper/Clerk
Rehabilitation Unit - GraveliFarth_goads (4 No.)   Bridge and Culvert Unit (I No.)                                 Ancillary Equipment (I No.)
Equipment                                                 Equipment                                                Equipment
I Angle-dozer (100-110 HR)                                2 Air tools (sets)                                       2 Air tools (sets)
1 Compactor - pneumatic tired, 8-10t                      I Compressor (250 cfm)                                   1 Angle-dozer with ripper (180-220 HP)
1 Compacter - vibrating drum and wheel 6-8t               1 Loader, front-end, wheeled I.5m3                       2 Bridges - emergency lighweight
2 Graders - motor (115-135 HP)                            1 Miser, concrete, 300 1                                I Compressor, 250 ecf.
1 Loader - front-end, wheeled, 2m3                        1 Pump, water 3"                                        1 Crusher lOt/hr.    primary
I Pump, water, 3"                                         1 Tools, mechanics,(set)                                                      - secondarv
I Tank, fuel storage, 4,000 1.                            2 Trailer, caravan                                                            - screen deck
I Truck, fuel tank, 6, 000                                1 Trailer, water tank, 2,000 1.                         I Laboratory - soils and materials - field unit
I Truck, warer tank, 4,000 1                              1 Truck, flat-bed, 7t                                   I Loader, Front-end, wheeled, 2.0m3
I Truck, mobile workshop                                  I Truck, tipper, 7t                                     I Loader, Front-end, tracked, 1.75m3
10 Trucks, tipper, 7t                                      2 Trucks, pick-up, 4 x 4 utility                        1 Pulvinixer, towed
2 Trucks, pick-up, 4 x 4 utility                          3 Vibrators, concrete, lb"                              I Sprayer, bitumen heater, 1,000 1.
1 Trailer, caravan                                        2 Sprayer, paint                                        I Spreader, chipping, towed
I Trailer, water tank, 2,000 1.                           1 Welder, 300 amp.                                      I Storage heater, bitumen (2,000 1.)
I Survey equipment (set)
Personnel                                                 Personnel                                               1 Tank, water, 8,000 1.
I Inspector                                              I Foreman                                                I Tank, fuel storage, 4,000 1.
2 Foremen                                                2 Operators                                              2 Tools, senior mechanics (sets)
6 Operators                                               1 Welder - Grade II                                     2 Tractor attachments (back-hoes)
2 Plant attendants                                        I Carpenter - Grade II                                  I Trailer - tilt-top, 20t
I Mechanic - Grade I                                     4 Drivers                                                2 Truck-tractors with 35t low-loader trailers
I Mechanic - Grade II                                     1 Mechanic - Grade II                                   I Truck, breakdown with crane
4 Mechanics - Grade III                                   3 Helpers - Grade III                                   2 Trucks, lOt, Long -wheel base with crane
1 Welder - Grade II                                     15 Laborers                                               2 Trucks, flat-bed, 7t
1 Electrician - Grade II                                  I Timekeeper/Clerk                                      4 Trucks, tipper, 7t
2 Helpers - Grade II                                                                                              1 Truck, water-tank, 4.000 1.
1 Storekeeper                                                                                                     I Truck, mobile workshop
14 Drivers                                                                                                         2 Trucks, pick-up, 3/4t
30 Laborers                                                                                                        4 Trucks, pick-up, 4 x 4 utility
I Timekeeper/Clerk                                                                                                I Washing and screening plant (40t/hr.)
1 Welder, 600 amp.
Miscellaneous items (51)
Headquarters and Supervisory StafE                      Personnel
ITInspector
Equipment                                               I Foreman - mechanic
1 Saloon car (1600 cc)                                  I Mechanic - Grade I
17 Trucks, pick-up, 4 x 4 utility                        2 Mechanics - Grade II
4 Trucks, pick-up, 3/4t                                 4 Mechanics - Grade III
2 Minibusea                                             I Welder - Grade I
1 Radio, 2-way communication system                     I Electrician - Grade I
2 Helpers - Grade ITT
12 Drivers
4Operators
IStorekeeper
2 Timekeeper/Clerks
10 Laborers
Source:  MOW and mission, 1978
December 1978



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project Progress Reporting Requirements
@   1.    Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate
no later than one calendar month after the end of the quarter. The first
report should cover the quarter ending March 31, 1979.
2.        The Report should contain the following information:
I. General Information
(a) Physical progress accomplished to date of report and during
the reporting period for:
(i) Procurement
-  preparation of specifications, bidding documents;
-  calling and submission of bids;
-  evaluation of bids and submission for IDA review;
-  issuing of purchase contracts;
-  delivery of procured items;
-  payment to suppliers.
(ii)  Technical Assistance
-  preparation of terms of reference;
-  prequalification of firms;
-  calling for and submission of proposals;
-  evaluation of proposals and submission for IDA review;
-  award of contract;
-  recruiting and approval of individual experts;
-  proposed and actual arrival dates;
-  man-months of service for each expert and total.
(iii)  Training - Morogoro Training School
-  preparation of training schedule;
-  preparation of curricula;
-  nomination and selection of trainees;
-  courses held and numbers trained;
-  results and standards achieved.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
(iv) Engineer Training
-  status of discussions and agreement (with Government
of India end/or other entities);
-  preparation of proposal including number to be
trained and timetable;
-  nomination and selection of students;
-  students under training;
-  results of training.
(v) Construction of Road Camps
-  selection of sites;
-  design of camps and preparation of contract documents;
-  acquisition of land;
-  calling and receipt of bids;
-  evaluation of bids and submission for IDA review;
-  award of contracts;
-  progress of construction.
(vi) Construction of Housing
-  selection of sites;
-  design and specifications;
-  construction;
-  schedule for housing completion;
-  occupation of houses by expatriates.
(vii) Rehabilitation of Existing Equipment (Regional)
-  survey and assessment of existing equipment;
-  preparation of repair requirements and spare parts
lists;
-  procurement of spare parts;
-  repairs in progress and completed.
(viii) Road Maintenance, Rehabilitation and Regravelling 1/
-  schedule of formation of gangs and work programs;
-  deployment, manning and equipping of gangs;
-  work in progress and completed;
-  operational status of equipment and equipment
utilization.
11   Proposed detailed formats for project monitoring and reporting require-
ments are available in the Project File (Annex 5, C-4).



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
(b) Actual or expected deviations from the project implementation
schedule;
(c)  Mctual or expected difficulties or delays and their effects
on the implementation schedule, and the steps planned or
taken to overcome the difficulties and avoid further delay;
(d) expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(e) key personnel changes in the staffs of the Roads Division,
consultants, or contractors;
(f) matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of project components.
ll.  A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, should show the progress in each project component.
III.  A financial statement should be set out in tabular form and indicate
for each project component:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b) revised cost, if appropriate;
(c) actual expenditure;
(d) projected expenditure; and
(e) actual and projected withdrawals from the Credit Account.
IV. Finally, the Report should state the status of action of each
covenant of the Credit Agreement.
December 1978



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A   1   -   R. Hofmeier, "Transport and Economic Development in Tanzania
with Particular Reference to Roads and Road Transport", 1973.
A   2   -   Japan International Cooperation Agency, "Southern Coastal
Link Road, Feasibility Study and Preliminary Design", 1977.
A   3   -   Brokonsult AB, "A Feasibility Study of the Development
Potential and Feeder Road Improvements in the Tabora
Region", 1975.
A   4   -   Scandiaconsult, "Feasibility Study, Kilombero Area", 1977.
A   5   -   Cowinconsult and the Economist Intelligence Unit Ltd.,
"Feasibility Study, Kilimanjaro Area", 1976.
A   6   -   Howard Humphreys & Sons, "Design Review of Songea-Makambako
Road", 1978.
A   7   -   The Crown Agents, "Road Maintenance Equipment and Depot
Servicing Facilities in the Southern Regions of Tanzania",
1977.
A   8   -   Finnconsult, "Mtwara Regional Integrated Development Plan
1975-1980", 1975.
A   9   -   Trimac Consulting Services Ltd., "Tanzania Trucking Industry
Study", 1976.
A  10   -   World Bank Group, "Tanzania - Transport Sector Memorandum",
1977.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B   1   -   Japan International Cooperation Agency, "Vehicle Operating
Costs on Southern Coastal Link Road Project", 1976.
B   2   -   Lyon Associaties Inc., "Economic and Engineering Study,
Tanzania Highway Maintenance and Organization", 1972.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
B   3   -   McKinsey & Co., "Making Comworks More Manageable", 1973.
B   4   -   Coopers & Lybrand Associates Ltd., "Tanzania Tou:ism
Study", 1978.
B   5   -   World ORT (Geneva), "Proposed Highway Maintenance Program,
Areas II and III", 1978.
B   6   -   World ORT (Geneva), "Technical Assistance & Training for
Highway Maintenance" (draft final report), 1976.
B   7   -   Comworks, "Proposals for Tanzania Trunk and Territorial Road
Maintenance", 1973.
B   8   -   Ministry of Finance and Planning, Tanzania, "Third Five-Year
Plan for Infrastructure and Social Services (July 1976-
June 1981)", 1978.
C.   Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawings and Maps Prepared by Bank
Staff or its Consultants
C   1   -   Calculation of Economic Benefit/Cost Tables.
C   2   -   Calculations of Project Cost Elements and Contingencies.
C   3   -   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance.
C   4   -   Detailed Formats for Project Monitoring and Reporting
Requirements.
C   5   -   Traffic Count Data 1972 - 1977 and Traffic Count Station
Map, 1978.
December 1978






TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization Chart - Ministry of Works
Minister for Works
Prlincipal Secretary
J      iMaterials Laboratory
(Senior Engineer)
Building               Mechanical           Roads and Aerodromes   Manpower Development               Pianning             Government Stores
Division                 Divisio n                Division             and Administration             Division               (Chief Supplies
(Director)              (Director)                (Dire:tor)(Director)                                (Director)                 Officer)
General Office               Design & Planning
(Admin. Assistant)            (Senior Engineer)
Road Maintenance
(Senior Engineer)
Construction
(Senior Engineer)
L  Airport Services |
(Chief Manager)
Source: MOW, November 1978                                                                                                   World Bank-19349 



-  -                                                 ll l~~~~~~~~ff  -
_        ___                              __                          ff     -
_ _ ___ .                                         __
t__*     .                                                  _ ___    , -    T 
____                                                       1_              __ _____     __ 
1-                                                       X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~. . .0          0 ~ .  000
gl|    v g   =  >   =   : 9   r  9   jG0 :   00e:
Ga 8  => bC cX Fb e   b  b ,   a  X   =- gQ '  00o    D-  o<   *0, =
_  _Z e be*i89 =ZcX000 Ce8  00X. 8 u 0  0e0C *eW 0_ lS-,           .0  00000000 >X
a|  a0           0                    0 0 0     0  0 0 0 0 aU o 30  _  0 00^0 0 0 0 l a > >     e       b p l 9 < >   a <   a>   a f =   a _ H   a     a
,,   a  a t o w w > > ~~~~~~-   .   00              0 0     0



UGANISA ~~~~  45155510 1~~~~~r5esr~~~a  55        55        ronsem   meerrsS~~~~~~~~~r                                                            IBRD 1BRD3777
UGA   A    -Y"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~me..~~5aly 
-.,    1h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                                              KENYA
'~~~~~OE                                                                                                 T~~ona-. ~ANZANIA>
r~~~esge             Usagors    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~"A           LONC  ~   ARE                                    ae-~'ZAR
~~~j R, u P4 94                                                                                                                                 Z~~~~~~~~~~~~0000 MI    I/AMBSA 
TANZANIA 
4                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fifth  Highway Projlect
ROAD MAINTENANCE
-Primory roads
Mj~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 TANGO                -s---r---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Railways~~~~~~~~~~NA  zily
+   Schedulad srsNice airpors
ryarl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  Nati-oa Parks or game reserVes
R.vtaiaral h.Radqoor,ErS
ok,              VER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lsr                                                                                t54A= 4-    Rlotroaial Se-rarras
Program areas orde this ProlcE,t
RATAVI FLAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oa sSaar                                                               v~maintenanc Propramroad -frier,
GA.E RE SERVE      RLj'1GWA R VEP                                                      0 ~~~~~~~~~01                               ad caodig
rare    m  -rrrK                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOTE, TN. -sahRjd NOrr jorthE -t,rr
005114000 so DO III  160  200  240
5mb   nOt                                              C'~~~~~~~~~ItRT9
i/0A N        F   J0EA,'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z A M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
~~~~sssres.  02                       55'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI



