Document of                    Fr E  L             P Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-244 1-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
January 4, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00                 =  TSh 8.00
TSh 1.0                 =  US$0.125
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/
Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to
TSh 8.00 which is close to the 1978 average exchange
rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA    =  Canadian International Development Agency
EAC     =  East African Community
MCT     =  Ministry of Communications and Transport
MoW     =  Ministry of Works
SIDA    =  Swedish International Development Authority
TAZARA  =  Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
TANZAM  =  Tanzania-Zambia
TRC     =  Tanzania Railway Corporation
vpd     =  vehicle per day
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:              US$20.5 million equivalent
TERMS:               Standard
PROJECT              The proposed project comprises the second stage of the
DESCRIPTION:        Borrower's trunk roads maintenance program, extending
it to the maintenance and rehabilitation of 2,700 km
of trunk roads in 11 regions in the northern and western
parts of the country. The project draws on the experience
gained from the first stage financed under the ongoing
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA).  The
project aims at increasing the long-term road maintenance
capability of the Ministry of Works through provision of
technical assistance for on-the-job and formal training
including overseas training of engineers. The project
would also finance road maintenance, rehabilitation and
zonal workshop equipment and materials, training aids for
the Morogoro Training School and construction of base and
road camps and a small number of houses for technical
experts. The proposed project also includes a pilot pro-
gram for repair and rehabilitation of road maintenance
equipment serving the regional and district roads in the
Mwanza Region and Zanzibar.
Project benefits consist mainly of savings in vehicle
operating costs. Such savings will directly accrue to
transport operators and thereafter are expected to be
passed on to transport users (mainly farmers and bus
passengers) in the form of reduced rates and fares.
An increasing government concern with improving road
maintenance and the planned close monitoring of imple-
mentation will minimize the risks of the proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dieclosed without WorM Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED PROJECT CAPITAL COSTS: 1/         ---------     US$ Mfillion----
Local           Foreign            Total
Equipment, Vehicles  & Spare Parts   0.91               11.71             12.62
Road Maintenance Materials              0.39             0.62              1.01
Civil Works                             2.33             0.56              2.89
Pilot Regional Program                  0.02             0.42              0.44
Technical Assistance & Training         0.21             4.19              4.40
Base Costs                        3.86             17.50            21.36
Physical Contingencies                  0.30             0.61              0.91
Price Contingencies                     0.90             2.54             3.44
Total Capital Costs               5.06             20.65            25.71
FINANCING PLAN:                             - …------US$ Million--------
Local     Foreign      Total       %
IDA                                      -         20.50       20.50     80
Government                              5.06        0.15        5.21     20
Project Capital Cost                    5.06       20.65       25.71    100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                      -----------US$ Million-----------
Fiscal Year   80      81    82      83    84    85
Annual                                   0.5   4.6    5.1    4.1   4.7   1.5
Cumulative                               0.5   5.1   10.2   14.3  19.0  20.5
RATE OF RETURN:                70 percent
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:        Report No. 2187a-TA, dated December 27, 1978
Highways Division, Eastern Africa Region
MAP:                           lBRD 13777
1/   As goods imported under the project would be free of taxes and duties,
the cost estimates include only negligible amounts of taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$20.5 million equivalent on
standard terms to help finance a Fifth Highway Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY*
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 25 least developed countries in the
world with a per capita income in 1977 of US$200. The economy is still
heavily dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in
agriculture and approximately 40% of GDP and two-thirds of total exports are
derived from agricultural production. Average rural incomes are much below
average urban incomes and there is considerable regional variation in rural
incomes owing largely to differences in climate and land fertility. Overall
population density is low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated.
Population growth is estimated at 2.7% per annum with both fertility and
mortality at relatively high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, and wholesale trade are under state
control. Controls are used extensively to direct economic activity, including
import licensing, foreign exchange control, price control, the reservation of
some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and detailed Government
investment planning. The second major feature of Tanzania's development
strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development and social programs to
benefit the poor. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in the decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education by 1977. The Government policy of
settling the rural population into villages is an important element in its
attempt to facilitate the provision of economic and social services in rural
areas.
*    This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project dated December 20, 1978.



-2-
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1967-77 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.6%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure of
rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, it has since
resumed with improved weather in 1976 and 1977.
6.        The Government has an impressive record of domestic resource
mobilization. Between 1966/67 and 1976/77 the share of recurrent revenue
rose from 14.3% to 20.2% of GDP. This has been achieved through a combina-
tion of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75,
the rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings
fluctuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960's through 1973, fell to
half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis level
in 1976/77. These are extremely high levels of savings for a country at
Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. While the average urban-
rural income gap widened in the early 1960's, this undesirable outcome has
since been arrested and the gap remained approximately constant between
1969 and 1975. It is likely that the gap has been slightly reduced since
1976 due to continued recovery of agricultural production and higher pro-
ducer prices. Regional income differentials in rural areas have tended to
widen slightly. Within the urban sector there has been a dramatic narrowing
of the post-tax income differential between the highest-paid government
officials and minimum wage earners from 50 to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975.
However, the overall formal urban sector earnings structure has remained
relatively stable while a large informal sector has emerged comprising large
numbers of unemployed, underemployed and other workers with earnings signi-
ficantly below the official urban minimum wage. The policies of wage
restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975 should have a bene-
ficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribution and the basic
needs oriented programs in rural water and health and in universal primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite satisfactory performance on growth, domestic resource
mobilization, and income distribution there are other areas in which per-
formance has been less than satisfactory. The most worrying long-term
trend is the slow growth of agricultural production. From 1967-77 agricul-
ture grew at an annual rate of 2.7%, the same as the rate of growth of
population. In the past three years agricultural growth has been higher,
but this was primarily a reflection of the recovery to the long-term trend
from the drought years 1973- 1975. In addition, the recovery has been limited to
subsistence agriculture; monetary agricultural production was only 2.2% higher
in 1977 than in 1972.
9.        Slow agricultural growth has been largely responsible for a second
problem, the disappointing slow growth of export volume: while the total



volume of exports of goods and services was 7.7% higher in 1976 than in
1966, the volume of exports of goods alone was actually lower in 1976 than a
decade earlier. From 1966-71, the volume of exports of goods and services
grew at 7.7% per year, but this was followed by a decline after 1971, a sharp
drop in 1974, and only a partial recovery by 1976. Increased levels of
foreign assistance and high coffee prices have mitigated the worst effects of
the decline in export volume, even so the Government has had to impose stricter
import controls with particularly adverse effects on industrial production
following the crisis of 1974-75. Only recently have these controls been
relaxed.
Recent Economic Performance
10.       The economy continued its recovery in 1977.  Total GDP increased by
5.9%.  There was no significant change in export volume but the boom in coffee
prices helped raise mainland commodity export receipts from TSh 3,828 million
to TSh 4,585 million. International reserves were US$280 million at the end of
1977.  However, with the fall of coffee prices in 1978 and increased import
levels, reserves have fallen rapidly; by September 1978 they fell to about
$120 million.
11.       Recovery has been aided by good economic management.  The Govern-
ment has continued to adhere to the principal elements of the policy package
introduced at the time of appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan
(No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. These include reallocation of investment in
favor of directly productive sectors, higher agricultural producer prices,
constraints on wages and salaries, and price and tax increases to restrain
private consumption. Since mid-1976 the Government has also succeeded in
bringing Government spending under control and has begun to relax import
controls. Because excessive Government spending and borrowing from the
banking system was threatening to undermine financial stability and the
entire program of recovery in early 1976, a program of budgetary control
was developed by the Government and supported by IMF assistance and a Program
Credit (No. 688-TA) in early 1977. Through the imposition of new budgetary
control measures and the reimposition of a progressive tax on coffee exports,
the Government was able to reduce Government debt to the banking system
and in 1977-78 hold bank borrowing to nearly zero. The Program Credit was
also designed to support selected relaxation of import controls in order to
provide needed imports of spare parts and raw materials for increased capacity
utilization. After some delays, the availability of essential maintenance
imports has increased.
12.       In addition, the Government has experimented in recent months with
measures to increase labor productivity. These have included layoffs of
some redundant workers and consultancy studies of the operational problems
of individual firms. Of potentially greater importance in the Budget Speech
in June 1978 the Finance Minister called for the adoption of a payment-by-
result wage system to stimulate productivity; discussions on this matter are
now in process among Finance and the other involved ministries.



13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's policy of limiting higher cost
commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service ratio
has remained low. Including a notional 40% share of the debt of the East
African Community Corporations, it was less than 8% in 1977 and projected at
less than 10% through 1985. In 1977 the Bank held 14% of Tanzania's external
debt (for the Bank Group, it was 26%) and received 27% of Tanzania's debt
service (29% for the Bank Group). We were projecting these to remain at about
30% through the 1980s, but the recent decisions of many donors to switch to
grant terms and to forgive past debts will lead to a higher level of Bank
exposure. However, with the Bank debt service ratio at only about 3%, this is
not expected to be a problem.
East African Community (EAC)
14.       The recent developments in the East African Community were out-
lined in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner
States, has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has begun work on
the questions involved in appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC
Corporations and making recommendations on their allocation. The de facto
breakup of the Community is expected to have some impact on Tanzania's budget
as new national corporations take over the services formerly provided by the
EAC Corporations. While substantial initial investments are required (parti-
cularly in the formation of the airways corporation, the rehabilitation
of the railways and the improvement of the Dar es Salaam port), the burden on
the Government budget should be temporary as the new corporations are expected
to become self-financing. A major development related to the EAC difficulties
was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major trading partner
of Tanzania and in the short run considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA*
15.       Tanzania joined the Bark, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 36 IDA credits and 16 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window loans, amounting to $630.5 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10
loans totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
*    This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project, dated December 20, 1978.



the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling $4.7 million, were made to the
Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial
difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the
Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of $1.75 million in soap
manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as of
November 30, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits
made to Tanzania had been for infrastructure including five lending operations
in the highway subsector. The overwhelming majority of the operations approved
since then have been for directly productive projects. Furthermore, a number
of Bank Group supported infrastructure projects have been closely linked with
specific productive activities. For example, the Urban Water Supply Project
(Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in January 1976, will support the Industrial
Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA). Directly productive
projects recently approved include the Tanzanian Investment Bank Project (Loan
No. 1498-TA), the Second Cashewnut Processing Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the
Tobacco Handling Project (Credit No. 802-TA), and the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural
Development Project (Credit No. 803-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilita-
tion Project (Credit No. 860-TA) and a Sixth Education Project (Credit No.
861-TA) were approved by the Board on December 12, 1978. Projects which have
been appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, lines of credit to
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank, the Tanzania Investment Bank and Tanzania
Development Finance Limited and a Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project. A
rural development project in Mara, a harbours project, an agricultural serv-
ices project and a food grain storage and milling project are also under
preparation.
17.       Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in larger part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic re-
garding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic admi-
nistrative changes, which -- though potentially the source of long-term
benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, difficulties have
been most severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural



- 6 -
sector. As our lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector,
these problems have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By
contrast, the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the
Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile, Morogoro Industrial Estate and
Cashewnut Processing Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
18.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
nine Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank
Group financed projects. The need to establish a close and continuous working
level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on
implementation problems was one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the
Resident Mission to two professionals in October 1976. In February 1977 a
regular Government/Bank Group review of project implementation was estab-
lished. Discussions on the entire Bank Group program chaired by the Ministry
of Finance and attended by Bank Group staff and officials from implementing
agencies, were to be held on a monthly basis. Periodically these reviews are
conducted on an "in-depth" basis and deal in detail with individual problem
projects and problems which are affecting project implementation across a
number of sectors. As a result of these efforts, there has been a noticeable
improvement in project implementation. Actions agreed to during the reviews
have been completed relatively fast and coordination and communication between
Finance and the various ministries and agencies responsible for project
implementation has improved markedly.
19.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, the Ministry of Finance has set up a unit to
oversee project performance. Furthermore, there have been more consistent
responses to Bank suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss project
problems raised by Bank staff. As a consequence, the disbursement record of
Bank Group financed projects has improved somewhat over the last two years,
and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is
about equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for
further significant improvements, as a number of long-term bottlenecks remain,
it is likely that the Government can implement its investment program,
including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effectively than
in the past.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
20.       Tanzania's transport system comprises roads (about 45,000 km); two
railway systems (totalling about 3,600 km of track); three main ocean ports



and a number of important lake ports; two international airports and over
50 smaller airfields. In addition, a 900 km pipeline conveys crude oil
between Dar es Salaam and Zambia border.
21.       In the highway subsector, while the Government has concentrated road
investments in recent years on bituminizing existing roads rather than build-
ing new ones, only 3,000 km of roads (7%) are paved and about 900 km (2%) are
engineered gravel. Many of the remaining roads are in poor condition and are
often impassable during the rainy season. The alerage road density is among
the lowest in Eastern Africa, 35 km per 1,000 km (2.3 km per 1,000 inhabi-
tants), and varies considerably from one region to another reflecting develop-
ment and settlement patterns. The Ministry of Works (MOW) is responsible for
construction and maintenance of trunk roads, while regional administrations
are responsible for the rest of the road network.
22.       Two railway systems now serve Tanzania:  the Tanzania Railway
Corporation (TRC) and the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA). TRC
was established as a corporate entity in 1977 to operate that part of the
East African Railways Corporation system located within Tanzania terri-
tory. TRC now manages and operates the 2,600 km, 1.00 meter gauge railway
in central and northern Tanzania. TAZARA, financed by the Peoples' Republic
of China and owned jointly by Tanzania and Zambia, commenced operations in
1976 and consists of 1.067 meter gauge track extending 970 km from Dar es
Salaam to the Zambian border and 820 km into Zambia. The principal traffic at
present is, and for some years expected to continue to be, Zambia's exports of
copper and its imports.
23.       The principal Tanzania ocean ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga and
Mtwara, are now managed and operated by the Tanzania Harbours Authority
created in 1977 to take over these ports from the East African Harbours
Corporation. The major port facility is Dar es Salaam and it handles about
85% of the total Tanzania traffic; nearly half of the tonnage through
that port represents Zambian traffic. The major domestic shipping line
is the Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line Limited, a parastatal corporation
established in 1971 with a monopoly on carrying freight and passengers between
coastal and island ports south of Dar es Salaam. Some transport services
are also provided on Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika. On Lake Tanganyika,
Burundi-owned ships transport considerable cargo between Bujunbura and Kigoma,
the western terminus of TRC.
24.       With its vast distances, difficult terrain and limited road network,
domestic air service is particularly important in Tanzania. A national
airline, Air Tanzania, was formed in 1977, following termination of the
operations of the East African Airways Corporation, to service a wide network
of domestic routes.
Transport Policies and Priorities
25.        Tanzania's transport priorities and policies have changed over
the years. Before independence and during the early sixties, transport
infrastructure was geared to serving Tanzania's external trade. Since



the late sixties, however, expansion of transport infrastructure had been
largely directed towards providing neighboring landlocked Zambia access to the
Dar es Salaam port. During this period, the Tanzania-Zambia (TANZAM) Highway,
the Tanzania-Zambia oil pipeline and TAZARA were completed and Dar es Salaam
port underwent a major expansion. With the completion of these Zambia-linked
investments, the Government is now focusing on Tanzania's domestic transport
problems. Accordingly, it is placing high priority on rehabilitating the road
network particularly in rural areas and on improving and rehabilitating the
transport systems formerly under EAC control. A major emphasis in the Third
Five-Year Plan (FY77-81) is on maintenance and rehabilitation to protect
previous investments and to reduce waste and loss of production caused by
impassable and rough roads. This is also the focus of the ongoing Highway
Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA). Most of the externally financed
regional rural development projects and agricultural projects also include
relevant road improvement/rehabilitation components. The situation with regard
to the national corporations which assumed responsibility for the former EAC
Corporations is reviewed above (paras. 22-24). The Government has requested
the Bank Group to finance a harbours project to expand and improve the Dar es
Salaam port facilities (para. 16), the Canadian Government has agreed to
provide substantial financial assistance to the railways system and significant
investments are being made in the new national airline.
Transport Planning
26.       The Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) is responsible
for planning investments in all transport modes except the highways, which
are the responsibility of the Ministry of Works (MOW). Transport investment
programs are prepared by MCT, MOW and the Regions (under the guidance of the
Prime Minister's Office) and reviewed by the Ministry of Finance. Transport
planning capability is weak in both ministries and inadequate data hampers
meaningful planning. To address this problem, MCT and MOW's planning units
are being expanded and strengthened with bilateral assistance. In addition,
with assistance from SIDA, MCT is planning on catrying out a National Trans-
port Study covering all modes of transport.
The Highway Subsector
27.       The road network in Tanzania totals about 45,000 km.  The trunk
road system of some 9,300 km links the country's 20 regional capitals and
connects Tanzania with neighboring countries. Twenty-nine percent of the
trunk roads are bitumen surfaced, mostly in fair condition, with relatively
high traffic volumes averaging 350 vehicles per day (vpd) but ranging as high
as 1,400 vpd. These roads carry about 75% of the total annual traffic flow on
the trunk road system. The rest of the trunk road system consists of gravel
or earth roads mostly in poor condition. Traffic volumes on these roads
average 55 vpd while the most heavily trafficked 4% carry between 150 to 200
vpd. The secondary road system (7,694 km) links other centers of economic
activity with the trunk road network and regional and district roads (27,990
km) form the tertiary system.



- 9 -
28.        In 1973, the Government decentralized responsibility for secondary,
district and regional roads by making regional authorities responsible for
their planning, construction and maintenance, leaving MOW responsible for the
planning, construction and maintenance of trunk roads. However, shortages
of qualified staff, lack of equipment and workshop facilities and lack of
funds have adversely affected both MOW and the regional administrations. As
a result, with the exception of the bitumen roads, the road network is in poor
condition. A special problem has emerged in regard to the maintenance of the
trunk roads. Although MOW has overall responsibility and is allocated funds
for this purpose, actual works are carried out by work crews under the regional
administrations: this has led to some diversion of MOW equipment to other
uses. To overcome this problem MOW has posted its engineers in some regions
to oversee trunk road maintenance work; this has been successful in substan-
tially reducing the diversion of equipment. Under the proposed project the
Government agreed that by March 31, 1979 it will adopt a management system
which would enable MOW to exercise full authority and control over trunk road
maintenance programs and equipment and thereafter would develop a program, in
consultation with the Association, to implement this management system
(Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
29.       Total annual recurrent expenditures on trunk roads have increased
significantly in recent years. During the period 1973/74 to 1975/76 trunk
road recurrent expenditures stabilized at about TSh35 million per annum which
were inadequate to meet maintenance needs. At that time, the Government
concentrated its financial resources on the productive sectors (agriculture
and industry) because of the drought and shortage of foreign exchange. Since
then, however, budgetary allocations and expenditures for roads have increaBed to
reasonable levels. In 1976/77 recurrent expenditures on trunk roads increased
to TShlO4 million and in 1977/787 reached about TSh1l2 million. This level of
expenditures is expected to be maintained and further augmented as traffic
growth from expanded economic development increases the need for maintenance.
Government policy is to maintain an adequate level of expenditures for road
maintenance and it has been agreed that it will progressively apply and
continue to apply its improved road maintenance capacity to its trunk road
system in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices (Section
4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Association expects
to review annually with the Government the sufficiency of the funds allocated
for road maintenance.
30.       Annual traffic growth in Tanzania during the past five years has
been estimated at only 2 to 5%, which is much below the annual rate of 7 to
8% prevailing in other Eastern African countries. This low growth rate
is attributed to the villagization program, reduced agricultural production
due to the severe droughts in the early seventies, restrictions on vehicle
imports to conserve foreign exchange and incomplete traffic counts. However,
this situation is changing as the Government has relaxed the restrictions
on importation of vehicles and spare parts, and as the Government's policy
of increasing agricultural production is now showing some results. Until
1974, MCT undertook regular traffic counts for the entire trunk road system.
Due to budgetary limits and administrative constraints, traffic counts are
now undertaken only sporadically or on an ad hoc basis. However, in the
future, it has been agreed that regular and systematic traffic counts on the
trunk road network will be made (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 10 -
Bank Group Strategy and Experience in the Highway Sector
31.       The Bank's strategy in the highway sector is to support Government
programs which are designed to lower transport cost by improving road rehabi-
litation and maintenance. In addition, the Bank supports the Government's
long-term objective of developing an organization capable of executing the
necessary maintenance operations through on-the-job and formal training of
Tanzanian maintenance staff.
32.       Four highway projects have been financed by the Bank Group with
loans and credits totalling US$56.2 million. The First Highway Project
(Credit No. 48-TA) in 1964 was supplemented by Credit No. 115-TA in 1968.
These two credits financed construction of a total of 860 km of roads. The
Second Highway Project (Credit No. 142-TA and Loan No. 586-TA) assisted in
the construction of the TANZAM Highway and was successfully completed in 1972.
A Third Project (Credit No. 265-TA) focuses on road construction in southern
Tanzania and betterment of feeder roads and a fourth, the Highway Maintenance
Project (Credit No. 507-TA) is aimed at improving road maintenance--both are
still in progress. A Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
(Credit No. 743-TA) was approved in October 1977 mainly to assist the Govern-
ment in the development of five public trucking companies and the associated
technical training. In addition, a number of rural development and agricul-
tural projects include road construction components.
33.       Two major difficulties have arisen in previous highway projects.
The most critical has been cost overruns: the First Project required a
supplemental credit and in the Third Project, African Development Bank agreed
to finance part of the original project in order to complete it in its
entirety.  The other difficulty has been with the availability and effective-
ness of the technical assistance provided for under the projects.  The Project
Audit Report on the First Highway Project highlighted the delay in recruiting
technical assistance as a cause of the implementation problems and concluded
that the training component intended to improve Tanzania's highway adminis-
tration was not effectively implemented. These problems as well as a shortage
of local staff and a severe shortage of housing for expatriates have been
handicapping the implementation of the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project.
However, that project, after a slow start, is now improving. With the delivery
of most of the equipment and arrival of expatriate technical advisors in
1977, maintenance of the trunk road system in the project area is increasing
in quantity and improving in quality. As the proposed project depends heavily
on the success of the technical assistance and training,special efforts have
been taken to deal with potential problems in these areas (paras. 38, 45, 48 and
49). In addition, the Government has agreed to review MOW's staffing to im-
prove manpower allocation and utilization within MOW. The results and recom-
mendations of this review, including an implementation schedule, shall be
furnished to the Association for comments by March 31, 1979 (part D of
Schedule 2 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Tanzania
with the assistance of consultants as the second phase of the Government's
program to improve the maintenance of trunk roads in Tanzania. Th.e first
phase was financed under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project (paras.
32-33); approved in 1974, it covers the maintenance of some 3,300 km of roads
in the southern and eastern half of the country and is attempting to develop
an adequate Tanzanian maintenance organization. The proposed project, which
covers the remaining regions of the country and continues the effort at
developing a maintenance capacity was appraised in April 1978. A staff
appraisal report entitled "Tanzania Fifth Highway Project" (Report No.
2187a-TA, dated December 27, 1978) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 28 to
30, 1978 and the Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. D. Mloka, Principal
Secretary, Ministry of Works. A credit and project summary is at the begin-
ning of this report and a supplementary project data sheet is in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
35.        The main objectives of the proposed project are to improve the
condition of the trunk road network in the northern and western areas of the
country in order to reduce transport costs and promote economic development,
and to increase the long-term road maintenance capability of MOW through
formal and on-the-job training of local road maintenance personnel at all
levels. Specifically, the project would include financing for:
(i) procurement of road maintenance and rehabilitation
equipment including an initial stock of spare parts;
(ii)  procurement of zonal workshop equipment and tools;
(iii)  construction of road camps for the various project
crews and houses for expatriate technical advisors;
(iv)  procurement of an initial stock of road maintenance
materials such as bitumen, reinforcement steel and
steel culverts;
(v) rehabilitation of existing equipment in the Mwanza
Region and Zanzibar; and
(vi)  technical assistance for improving highway maintenance
operations and support for formal and on-the-job train-
ing of local staff.
Detailed Features
36.       Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Equipment.  The project includes
the establishment and equipping of 16 routine maintenance, four rehabilitation
and two regravelling crews for gravel and earth roads; six routine maintenance



- 12 -
crews for paved roads; a bridge and culvert maintenance crew and an ancillary
equipment pool. Road equipment, vehicles, mobile workshops and workshop
equipment, mechanics tool sets and a two-way radio communication system would
be provided under the project. The project also provides for an initial stock
of spare parts for the new equipment. During its seven years estimated life,
the equipment procured under the project is expected to be used to regravel
600 km of gravel and earth roads, rehabilitate 1,440 km of gravel and earth
roads and maintain these 2,040 km of roads. Also, 600 km of bitumen roads in
the project area would be maintained by the routine maintenance crews. In
addition, as the gravel road maintenance crews are trained and gain experience
they are expected to expand their operations to maintain some of the remaining
lower priority sections of the trunk road system which do not need immediate
regravelling or rehabilitation but require regular routine maintenace to keep
them in usable condition.
37.       Zonal Workshop Equipment and Tools.  MOW is embarking on a program
of building and equipping a number of zonal workshops throughout the country
to service, repair and overhaul the country's heavy equipment including that
for road maintenance. This program is financed largely from MOW's own
resources. To help in improving these workshops, the project provides about
$600,000 for the purchase of specialized tools and equipment. Specific items
to be financed will be decided and agreed when the number and type of work-
shops are determined.
38.       Construction of Base and Road Camps, and Housing for Expatriate
Technical Advisors. The project provides for the construction of about 28
base and road camps for the various maintenance, regravelling and rehabili-
tation crews to be established under the project. In addition, due to the
severe shortage of appropriate housing, particularly in Dar es Salaam, re-
cruitment and retention of the experts essential to the implementation of
the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project has been below the scheduled level;
project implementation has suffered accordingly. Therefore, in order to
ensure the proper and timely implementation of the proposed project, funds are
provided for the construction of about 16 Grade A houses in accordance with
the Government standards, to house expatriate advisors; the standards were
examined and found reasonable. These houses will be owned by the Govern-
ment and after completion of the project would be occupied by MOW's other
expatriate advisors or rented to MOW's staff.
39.       Road Maintenance Materials.  As road maintenance in Tanzania has
been suffering from a lack of sufficient and appropriate materials, the
project provides for the procurement of an initial stock of essential
materials including about 2,500 tons of bitumen, 250 tons of steel reinforce-
ment bars, 100 tons of steel plate, 2,500 meters of culverts as well as
explosives and detonators. The materials requirements for the project will
be reviewed annually with the Government to ensure availability in sufficient
quantity and quality.
40.       Pilot Program for Regional Roads Maintenance.  The Regions' road
maintenance capacity is weak and suffers from lack of equipment, workshops,
skilled manpower and application of appropriate technologies. The project
will assist a pilot program to improve the maintenance of regional and



- 13 -
secondary roads by financing the purchase of spare parts and the rehabili-
tation of existing road maintenance equipment in Mwanza Region and Zanzibar.
In addition, technical experts financed under the project will advise these
pilot efforts on technical matters including assessment and application of
different technologies with appropriate mixes of labor and equipment; plan-
ning and management of rural road maintenance programs; and determining a
satisfactory level of recurrent cost funding for maintenance. Training of
regional equipment operators, workshop personnel and key road maintenance
staff will also be provided at the Morogoro Training School. The main objec-
tive of this pilot program is to determine how the planning and work under-
taken by the regional administrations on rural roads can be improved. The
activities under this pilot program will be coordinated with the other aid
agencies involved in attempts to improve regional rural roads.
41.       Technical Assistance and Training.  The proposed project will
finance about 612 man-months of consultant and technical services at a cost
of about US$60,000 per man-year. A team of 18 maintenance experts will be
employed over 24 to 36 months to provide on-the-job training and advice to
MOW's staff, regional staff and field personnel. Also provision for 24
months of consultant services for planning is included. Training aids will
be purchased and 4 instructors will be employed over 18 to 24 months for the
Morogoro Training School where formal classroom training of technicians and
field staff will be undertaken. This would complement the trainig program
financed under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project.  In addition, in view
of the small number of engineers graduating from the Dar es Salaam UJniversity
and in order to help MOW's long-term staff requirements, the project will
also provide for the training, exclusively for MOW under the Government's
normal bonding arrangements, of about 120 Tanzanian high school graduates in a
four-year engineering program at the Roorkee University in India or equivalent
institution. Enrollment under this program will be phased over two years and
securing sufficient numbers of candidates is not expected to present any problem.
Project Costs and Financing
42.       The total project capital cost 1/ is estimated at US$25.7 million
equivalent. This cost estimate includes an adequate margin of contingencies
and is based on recent bids and quotations. The foreign exchange component
would amount to US$20.6 million equivalent or 80% of total costs. Details of
project costs are included in the credit and project summary. The proposed
IDA credit of US$20.5 million equivalent would finance about 80% of the total
project cost; almost the entire foreign exchange cost. The Government would
finance the balance of US$5.2 million equivalent. In addition, the Government
would make the necessary recurrent funds available for the adequate maintenance
of the entire trunk road system.  The additional recurrent expenditures required
by the project over five years would be about 10% of the estimated total expen-
ditures of MOW during that period. Local expenditures on trunk roads are
financed from the general revenues to which road users contribute through duties
on vehicle importation and taxes on ownership and use.
1/   Capital cost includes $1.0 million for purchase of an initial stock of
road maintenance materials.



- 14 -
Procurement and Disbursements
43.       Contracts for new road maintenance and workshop equipment, related
spare parts, vehicles and road maintenance materials estimated to cost about
US$16.5 million, including contingencies, will be grouped and procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. A preference margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing
imports or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be granted to local manu-
facturers. As the remaining goods would involve minor individual purchases
for specialized items, they would not attract international competition:
training aids (about US$0.1 million) would be procured by calling competitive
quotations following existing Government procedures and spare parts for the
pilot program (about US$0.5 million) would be procured through local repre-
sentatives of equipment suppliers after local competitive bidding. Most of
the equipment, spare parts and tools are expected to be imported as Tanzania
does not manufacture these items. Equipment suppliers will be required to
provide an adequate service organization in Tanzania including training of
mechanics, service personnel and equipment operators, and maintaining a
reasonable inventory of spare parts. Civil works contracts for construction
of base and road camps (about US$3.0 million) and housing for expatriate
advisors (about US$0.6 million) are unlikely to attract international compe-
tition: as camps only require simple low standard construction and are located
in various rural areas and as houses will be located in Dar es Salaam and
several rural centers, they will be built by local contractors after local
competitive bidding or, if the Association should so agree, by force account.
Off-the-shelf items costing under US$15,000 each up to a total of US$200,000
may be purchased according to normal Government procurement procedures which
are satisfactory. All consultants and experts financed under the project
would be selected in accordance with Bank Group guidelines and employed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association (Section
3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Disbursements from the credit would be on the basis of:  (i) 100%
of the foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment, materials, vehicles
and spare parts; on technical assistance and on overseas training; (ii) 70% of
local expenditures for locally procured equipment, vehicles, materials and spare
parts; and (iii) 15% of total expenditures on road camp construction and 40% of
total expenditures on house construction. All withdrawal claims will be fully
documented except for those expenditures made under item (iii) above which
would be supported by certified statements of expenditures if construction is
carried out by force account. It is recommended that expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1979 for 3 technical experts up to an amount of US$40,000.
be financed retroactively under the IDA Credit.
Project Implementation and Training
45.       MOW through the maintenance section of its Roads and Aerodromes
Division, will be responsible for overall project implementation. All road
works will be by force account through the gravelling, rehabilitation and
maintenance units to be established under the project. This arrangement is
satisfactory as it has been successful under the ongoing maintenance project.



- 15 -
The road maintenance technical assistance Deam to be financed under the
project will operate in an advisory capacity within MOW, mainly to train and
advise local executive staff to ensure that they can cope with their respon-
sibilities after the departure of expatriates. To avoid delay in project
implementation, as experienced under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project,
it will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) (f the draft
Development Credit Agreement) that advisors to the Maintenance Management
Engineer, the Maintenance Adminiistrator and the Plant and Procurement Engineer
have been recruited and are in post to plan and initiate project implementa-
tion and to prepare bid documents for equipment. Retroactive financing of
expenditures for these advisors is recommended (para. 44).
46.       The work methods that will be used in carrying out the proposed
project have been designed to use as much labor as possible given the avail-
ability of experienced supervisory staff and the need to rehabilitate and
maintain the badly deteriorated trunk road system as effectively and quickly
as possible.
47.       To support MOW's program for building and equipping zonal workshops
(para. 37) MOW will submit to the Association, for its review and approval,
the technical specifications and lists of equipment to be purchased for the
zonal workshops (Para. A(3) of Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). To strengthen and improve regional road maintenance management
and operations in Mwanza region and Zanzibar under a pilot program (para. 40),
a detailed implementation program, including a list of spare parts for repair
and rehabilitation of existing regional equipment and a plan for deploying
technical assistance, will be submitted by December 31, 1979 for review and
approval by the Association (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
48.       In order to avoid the problems encountered under the ongoing High-
way Maintenance Project in assigning and appointing local staff to fill
vacancies in MOW's maintenance section, which contributed to the delays in
implementation, the Borrower would appoint local staff, having qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, to each
position in MOW's maintenance section to which advisors are to be provided
under the project, prior to the employment of the respective advisors but
not later than December 31, 1979 (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The appointment in post of local staff to six key posi-
tions will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       On-the-job training provided by the road maintenance experts
(para. 41) will be supplemented by formal training courses given at MOW's
Training School at Morogoro. To ensure adequate provision for training of
field technicians, the project provides for additional training aids,
the continuation of three training advisor posts and the addition of an
advisor to the instructor for electrical systems (Section 3.02(c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). In view of the problems faced in
recruiting trainees for the Morogoro Training School, as experienced during
implementation of the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project, it will be a



- 16 -
condition of disbursement for training advisors that a two-year recruitment
and training program satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association has been
prepared (Para. 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
To reduce Tanzania's reliance on expatriate road engineers, efforts are
required to boost the number of engineers in MOW. Thus, the project provides
for the training, exclusively for MOW, of 120 high school graduates in a
four-year engineering program (para. 41). The Government will, by June 1,
1979, make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for this training
program (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.        The proposed project is designed to be implemented over five years
and provides for the development of recording and reporting procedures to
establish the data on actual production rates for adequate maintenance work
on trunk roads. The implementation program will be reviewed annually to take
into consideration changes in road conditions and transport priorities: the
Borrower shall by April 30, 1979, and by each April 30 thereafter until the
project has been completed, submit to the Association for its review a de-
tailed annual project implementation program, including exact locations,
designs, construction details, cost estimates, proposed budgetary allocations
and actions to be taken in connection with implementation of the management
system for trunk road maintenance (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Also, to ensure efficient utilization of the equipment
and tools provided under the project, such equipment will only be deployed
after the related technical advisors are in post (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
51.        The proposed project would rehabilitate, regravel and maintain
about 2,700 km of primary roads in urgent need of routine and periodic
maintenance by providing equipment, spare parts, tools and materials. In
addition, it would increase the long-term term road maintenance capability
of MOW through on-the-job and formal training of local road maintenance
personnel at all levels and by providing overseas training for about 120
engineers.
52.        Benefits have been calculated for the rehabilitation, regravelling
and routine maintenance of 2,040 km of earth and gravel roads as well as the
routine maintenance of 600 km of bitumen roads, and consist of savings in
vehicle operating costs for the projected traffic using these roads. The
savings will directly accrue to transport operators, both private and public.
Thereafter, these savings should be passed on to transport users, mainly
farmers and bus passengers, since based on experience rates and fares for
intercity road transport are generally cost-based as a result of competition
between transporters. Benefits of helping to create a strong road maintenance
capability in Tanzania are not quantified, but in the long-run are probably
as important as the short-term benefits resulting from upgrading the road
network and reducing transport costs. Also unquantified are the benefits
that transport users will reap in the form of more reliable, faster, and in
the case of passengers, more comfortable, transport services.



- 17 -
53.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 70%.  A
sensitivity analysis indicates that the project remains economically viable
even with considerably lower benefits and higher costs: assuming a 25%
increase in costs (capital and recurrent) and a decrease of 20% in benefits,
the rate of return declines to 39%.
Risks
54.       Because of the project's high rate of return, the risk of mis-
allocation of resources is minimal. No special problems are expected in the
procurement of equipment because experience was gained under the ongoing
Highway Maintenance Project. Government is expected to be in a position to
provide the necessary local finance for capital and recurrent expenditures
to implement the project on schedule.
55.       Based on experience with the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project,
staffing arrangements pose some risk. Consultants may be slow in providing
the appropriate experts while Government may encounter delays in expanding
its maintenance staff and providing counterparts to be trained. In addition,
selection of candidates to be trained as operators may be slow. These risks
remain although the recent assignment and posting of most of the required
local staff under the ongoing project indicates an increasing Government
concern with improving road maintenance and a commitment to providing the
necessary staff. A number of project features are also designed to minimize
these risks including close monitoring of project implementation, provision of
retroactive financing to employ experts to help the Government in preparing
for the implementation, inclusion of a housing element, and conservative
productivity estimates for the rehabilitation, regravelling and routine
maintenance units.
56.       The project is not expected to have any detrimental impact on the
environment. In fact, soil erosion on project roads will be less than at
present as drainage facilities (culverts and ditches) are rehabilitated and
better maintained. Also, dust formation on the project roads during the dry
season will be lower as a result of an adequate layer of gravel on the roads.
This is expected to improve visibility, safety and comfort.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The draft Development Credit Agreement includes the following
additional conditions of effectiveness and disbursement:



- 18 -
(a)  appointment in post of three key technical advisors
(condition of effectiveness, para. 45);
(b)  appointment in post of six local staff to the key
positions for which road maintenance advisors are
provided under the project (condition of effective-
ness, para. 48); and
(c)  preparation of a two-year recruitment and training
program satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation with respect to trainees at the Morogoro
Training School (condition of disbursement for
related advisors, para. 49).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 4, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 19-                                          ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1
TANZANIA - SOCIAL tNDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AEA (THOUSAND SQ. KH.j                TANZAN IARUERCE CROUPS (AD-STED AMTE)ALS
TOTAL           945.1                                                SANE        SAME    ME" HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    508.3                              HD5T RECENT    CEOCRAPHIC   INCOME       INCO3M
1960  /    1970 /b ESTI7LZ b       IZGION Le  GROUP ,d   GRLOUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                70.0 /f   110.0 /L. 200.0 /f        223.6      1S2.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    41.0        62.0     69.0            66.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, KID-YEAR
MILLIONS)                        9.6 If    12.9 /f  15.5 /L
URBAN POPULATION (PRCZNT OF TOTAL) 4.6         5.5       7.3           13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. n3.                     10.0        14.0      16.0           18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    20.0       26.0      30.0           53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 TRS.                       42.5 If.,   44.4 A    46.7           44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                       55.5  IfA   53.0 /h  50.9            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 ns. AND ABOVE                  2.0 1g.j   2.6 /h   2.4              2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROUER RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.3         3.0 /f   2.7 1f          2.6        2.4         2.7
URWN                             5.0         5.6       7.5 L          5.6        4.0         8.8
CRUDE RIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.5       50.5      47.0           46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.1       23.0      20.1           20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             ..         3.2       3.3            3.1        2.9         3.2
FAKILY PLANSING
ACCEPTORS, ANNCAL (TEOUSANDS)     ..          ..        .-
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED  ON)    ..          ..        ..            2.5       14.6        14.2
FD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           91.6       100.0    107.5            94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RE4UICENTS)                    69.0       88.0      86.0            90.1      92.3        99,5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        42.0        43.0      47.1           55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANu  AND PULSE        22.0 Li    23.0      20.0            17.1      13.9        17.5
ChiD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             ..         ..         7.5
hEATH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   36.7       4I.8      44.5           43.7       45.8        53.3-
INANT MORTALITY RATE (PEE
THOUSAND)                         190.0      160.0 k      ..           138.4     102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCZNT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        13.0      39.0           22.4       26.4        31.1
URJAN                              *-       61.0      68.0           66.3       63.5        68.5
RUlAL                             ..         9.0      36.0            10.4      14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          *-      17.0           23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                             ..          ..      88.0           70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                             ..          ..      14.0            14.2       3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       21750.Oftk 21570.0 j20760.0  f      21757.5   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NDRSING PERSON   9240.0  4890.0 /f 3180.0 /f           3473.8    6583.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           570.0/1fk   700.0 IL    ..           645.4    1157.6       786.5
URBAN                    -         ..         ..        ..           172.9     163.3       278.4
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..          1292.6    1348.S      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER UOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..            19.2      19.5        19.2
ROUSING
AVERkAE SIZE O HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         4.4        ..             4.9       5.2
UR3Sl                              ..        3.2 5h     ..             5.0       4.8
RBIAL                              ..                     4.5 .7                 5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..
URBAN                             1.S; ..               ..              ..        1.8        2.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        .7         10.3



- 20 -                                        ANN    I
TABLE 3A                                             Pg        
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIIET                  Page  2
IEFERZNCZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVFERACES
ELENIZA                   ,- MOST RFCENT ESTIMATE) '
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGilER
IOSS IZCZNT     GZOCRAPFIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 ^      1970 tb ESTIMATE /b      RCION /   GROUP /d    GROUP  e
PUCATION
ADJUSTZD ENROLLJZE.NT RATIOS
DIRARY:    TOTAL                 24.0        35.0      57.0             52.1       62.9        75.8
PUALE               16.0         28.0      46.0            37.6       45.9        67.9
UODDART:  TOTAL                   2.0         3.0       3.0             6.0        14.4        17.7
FDEALE               1.0          2.0       2.0             5.0        J.8        12.9
ICATIONAL (P£RCENT OF SECONDAXT) 23.0          ..        ..              7.2        6.6         7.4
PUFIL-TEACHG   RATIO
PRDU.RT                          45.0        47.0      53.0             43.2       38.5        34.3
U00INAXY                         20.0        19.0      20.0             22.8       19.J        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PflCMT)        9.5        28.1 t    49.0 ^           20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUKTTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUlATION                        3.0         2.5       2.6              3.9        3.1         7.2
RDIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUATION                         2.0        11.0      16.0             40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ,.         0.3        ..             2.2         2.8        14.1
3VSPAPER ("DAILT GZnRAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
TPOUSJ'D POPULATION                 3.0         5.0       3.0              3.9        6.0        16.3
alInA UIXIAL ATTENDANCE PER:CAPITA  0.5          -                         1.2        1.4         1.6
D(LOYMETT
lOYL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    4900.0 /a   5600.0tLf,6300.0 A.
FENALZ (PERCEST)                 37.1        36.6      36.3             32.6       24.2        28.0
ACRICULTUE (PERCEYT)             96.0 /a    91 0/.fh  B3.1              73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCS;T)                3.8         5.0        ..
?AZTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              44.7        43.5      42.2            42.0        39.8        37.8
KALE                               56.9        55.7      54.3             54.6       53.3        50.3
IPUE                               32.8        31.5      30.3             27.3       19.6        20.9
U£C1aC DENlDENCY RATIO                1.1 it      1.2/f.h   1.2              1.2        1.3         1.3
rIUC1 DlSTRIBhrItON
*QCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
UCEIVED BT                                                                                         -
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              33.5        ..            25.7       20.3         19.5
UCGHST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              63.3        ..            55.1       45.1        4U.9
UEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                 Z.3        ..             5.8        5.7         5.9
LOVES? 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     .         7.8        ..            14.5       16.J        15.7
POnTY TARGUr CROOTS
ESTIMJATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LVL (USS PER CAPITA)
ORa                                ..          ..     117.0           ios.a       U.5        155.9
AL                                 ..          ..       9.0            74.1       71.9         97.9
1uATED RELATIVE POVERTY IJCC
LEML (USS PEQ CAPITA)
aRN                                ..          ..    146.0            124.4      100.8       143.7
L                                  ..          ..      43.0            59.6       62.0        87.3
lTDXATED POPULATION BELOW POVERY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCEbT)
IIUAN                                                  2 *#.0          26.8       46.         22.9
,L                              ..          ..      85.0             47.6       48.0        36.1
oet available
Net applicable.
JA    The adjusted group averalge  for oebh Indicator are populatiom-veighted geometric mesa. excludlig the extrme,
valasa of the indicator and the most populated country LD each group. Coverage of countries &wag the
ladcatore depends o avaLlabIlity of data and is not unifiru.
A     Oslese otherviase noted, date for 1960 refer co &ny year becveen 1959 sad 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for most Recent Estlnce. betwe-e 1973 and 1977.
.    Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Low Income ($280 or lees per capita. 1976);  /e  Lower Middle loco"
1$2S1-550 par capita, 1976);  /f Mxalaad Tanzanic;  LL  1957;  /h  1967;  LI  1967-73;  L/  1961-63;
ht  1962;  La  Registered, not all practice in the country;   La  1958, Zasaiber only;   a  1972;  lo  1963.
eptember 1978



- 21 -                                                                ANNEX I
WlTtlTTMlS OFP RnCl%(.  .'lfiAT(fPS                                                     Page   3
Nkices :  Ath'.ot, the fAre ore droe f-o   ore  generalIy judged the soat authorit.tIv-  ed reli.bl.. IL sh.oud cSc b  noted th,t then say not b. Intel-
nationally  -rp.-rtile  ......e of the lock of ....nderdts.d dfi.Lntico. ..d  otac-pt. used ho dlIff-r..n .. counoI.e inc L.cting th. dat..  Th. datar.  noTt..                  ce
uee,I t  d-arlh. o.rdr  of ..,e.it.d.,  odlc-te trn.td. 4 end ch.r.,t.ring certain melon dlfter..ece..  b--encotle
The t4hetr d             Sr0  roc    o   aht od otort ..r..  population-wighted ReenstrIc nen.  eldint  "th  ourn   elr   fth%.indicato  *trd th  soet
poPulatd      -.r-oR r.    lvrt   foonre   mn  the Indictotr. dePends o-   -11hilit,  fdt   u   vntutftt    o   olc  of dt,
group ocruesI   CaPital Surplus  ML  Eporecre and Indictors of ...... to rate   nd .-.rEt   i lpol.   ocig. ItCtadtribuinad  osr   re
elople pouuli.       .Iie       as trit   evewthout tho  .....lo  of P  exlts."  -Ltoes.
LAND AREA (tooad  ..  e                                                                    Po2Hlatino nor hortt.l bed - tot.l. urba, and crel                  Poplio  (ratel.
Total - Tote: suracSrea cprising lend area  end inland -&atr.                              urban'. and ruTall dl,Lded by their coepertlvn nuber of hospital bede
la"" orre       Motrecnt setimate of egricuItunAl area usod temporarily                     eoetlble in pblic and p"-rat  Sentra   nd :p.cie1lr.d hospital end re-
ar permnenlyfor, c-upe  -eture. market end Iitchen gard*ns or to                          habilitatinn renters.  R.oeitrels arm eetnbl,hinhrsn     p-enonely et ffled by
lie fallow,                                                                              at ieest nne phyeician.  Et.tblibmenre. Providing principally toetndial
cane armnot incl.ded. Rural hospitles. howecor. include health eod medi-
tip PER CAPI:A WSUl   - CNP Pot rapite aetintest  at currant earbet prices.                  cal  anter  not pereanenty,,etefed byE I physticia  (hutby a medical a.-
ouoiroby  ,same  ovnoerelo   nrhnd es World Bass Atlas 11915-77 beatal;            ei.tan..  .nam.   a mdwife.etr.    hich Offe  in-ptlact aOemendation and
1960. 191.end197         al dAt.                                                         provide a Imitted ...aC. of medioal fatalltiac.
Adieoefr hoe   ta  bed - Toail mocker otf admission,  tn or discharges
MISKI   ClOY7OPu APTA - Anneal conaumptlen. of commerrial energSy                            finea hospital. flivie   ytenubro   e
(real an  .lgoute11P. ptLroleunS.         Saur m e  hn ydro-, secleer endgee-
thermal  -eert.inty   in kiloise n  ral equlvalet. POr capita.                       IIOUJSIIC
Avorone esie of househo.Ild Coe;r:ens  cr hous*hold)l -taL. urban. and rural-
POP'I%ATIONl ill- VITAL STATISTICLS                                                          Ataehldrmin  ofag up of  IndvidoaLs who sarelvnna r
Total pop.l&tion,. n-ear (r,.lllone) - Ac of July 1; if nor available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or ledger may or my not be incled.d in
average .- two end-yea  m      Tnteal  1960. 1970, and 1971 data.                        tbs hoamehold for etatisticol Purposes.  Statistical definitlona af house-
Urban oooalg(P.rt.nt of total) -Ratio of urban to tutal popola-                             bold nary.
t.a.; different dci Iniricue of oiT6am Areas nyapffect comparability                   Ace-mma number of Personos Par room - total. urbn., and rorel - Average nom-
of da1te  onsa roectrice.                                                                bar of Persons por room  in all, urban, and rural noccupied conventional
Po..atio  density                                                                           diselinge, imepstctineJy.  Dwellinga exrlude non-permanent structures end
Fer  se. kg. - Mid-year populatton per equate kilometer (10O bectar.e)                    unnecpied parte.
of total area.                                                                         Accesee to eleotricity (Perc-nt of d.ollinss) - total, urban. and rural -
Per sq. lo=. agricult,re land - Computed as above for agricultural lead                   Conventional dwelling. wtth electricity in living quarters as Parc...tat.
only.                                                                                    of total. urban, and rural dwe11iogs respcrtively.
Penulatio. .ao aiterttre (p.rrentl - ChIldren (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 Years), and rentired 165 yeare and 0000) am perrentogee of mid-               EDUCATION
7our popu_atirn.                                                                      Adiuated enrollment retire
P.onulatio. growth rare (isroec..t- total. and urban - Compound Annuel                   Primary srhool - total, and female - lTotal and fentale enrollment of all Agee
growth re tan of tctal and utban  1 mi-Year population  for 1950-6i,                     at ike primary Level as p-rcetogee of reapectinely prImary ochool-age
1960-70, and 19 70-75.                                                                   populari-s; normaly inclodee childran aged 6-l1 years hut edjuet.d for
.Crude birni. cate (per thousand) - Annual live births par tha,eead os                      differenit Iengthc of Primary edcation; for-  -antri.e with unive..eal  de-
mid-yca:   opltin   tee-year Arithoanlc averages ending in 1960 and                      c ation enrollment say exceed 100 percent atn".  osom  pupils are below or
1970  n    v(n-ya  aveag  edin  in 1915 fon mot recast esttleate.                        above, the official School age..
Crrde deth rate (nr  thouan)-PlAnnual deaths per thousand sf mid-                        Seodr    rbou  - total, and female - Computed  am above; Secondary educe-
,earfpepularion; ten-yeer arithmetit average  ending inw 1960 and 1910                   tion requfree at least f our yeare of approved primacy instructionl  ret-
ad f1-e-  Ar avera.ge  ndiug in 1975  or.mae recen....timenac.                          CUsd  genalvcalnaon              inaccker .   t.. h.training Imeteor ti .e fee pupils,
Grooms reproductIon rate - Average numher of daughiere a woma  will b.ai                   tealy Pf 1. to 17 peace of ega; norresponenred.   c......e Arm genrally
in her norna  repenarutIve poriod If eke eapernaicanc    preeent age-                    excluded.
epecif.infert"IIT y rate   usually five-year Averages ending in 1960.                  Vocational  vnolet(arn   fsreav        Ioalea  institutions Int-
1970, ad 1975.                                                                            Mdud   ehia,ldaca.o  ohrpore                          hr   ptt  independently
reoliy olacolnat -   ateter. annual. lthosuands) - Anmual ltamber of                       or es dapartietits of scrondary IOstLcutiooe.
arteptore e        thi_tl-ontrel devican under Tuspines of rAtional faemily           Puoll-teacher ra tio -2erinarn. and 11comdary - Total stud.gts enrelled is
p  PRne   yeogr_.                                                                     primary and  sacoedary levle divided by nuembers of teachers in tbe carre-
PemIl planing -usersfoernnt o  narnd  "oman  -per entge of                        apandiug levls.
marrIed woe  of child-beein ag  (1s-hipece  whto uc. birth-control                     Adalt literacy reat  (v rcenl - Literate adults (able to read and wits) as
devices to all married womean in same age group.                                         a Percentage ef tTal adoMIT popelation aegd 15 years and over.
FOOD ANDO if.'tION                                                                      CONSUM.Ti7T1
Index of food Orgd.ction.2qr capita (197D0100) - lodex umber of Per                     paenprrre(a  tosndoolation) - Passen.ger rare  -oPrIse mator  Aran
capita  -no 1profucelo  oal  norotdte.stigesthnight persons; eacludee ambulancee. heresas and military
Par caPit. -upoly nf calris  nercn  o  rrircete   Computed from                          vahicles.
energy sqiwlnlest of net food supplies available in country per capita                RAdI rersivere (me thusnd                inuetl   - ALl types of  .cisreve     for radio
per daY.  available otepplies nonprise donestic production. imports leS%               broadcat  tognea  public peChuado   ouaio                          ldgulfne
exports. and chaag.s in etouk.  Net supplies ase,lde  ninal feed, seede,               receivers in -ountriea and in yearo when registration of radio a          ewst
quAnst1teA used L  fnod process.ing, and  lassos in distibutote.  Re-                  effor; date far recent peer. map net be compara.ble elena mar countriesl
quiremeats ears estimated by FAO homed on physiological needs f or ent-                abolished lrnlg
nal activ-ity and health tonsidering envirorusental tRpert8ur8, body                  TV receivers (per thousand PorulotiOn) - Vf receivers for br.odceet to ganaraL
weights, .me and se. distrI1butions of population. and allowIng 10 per-                  Feb11,.par.thousaod population;. euclud.. unlicensed TV rereivers in  on
renata for wuste an househeid Lavel,                                                      tries  ad In years when eSgicration of TV sets wam In effec.
P  ,Ltcents  oply of  taxoein (arans PST day) - Protein content of peraoeaer  cruain(,.r thousand                                            Shoeto) -Iow   the average, drolsl-
capita us: supyo   odprdy.  ::.C supply ef fond Is defined As                            lio  of     saly general Interest nasn.papec'. defined as . periodical publi-
above.  L.quIr.menat  for all countries established by USDA, Provide for                 ration d ... ed prImarily to recording gen.,e Iea   It is oo..dsod .. 10t
a mInimum ello"wste of 65 gramis of total Proeine  Per day and 20 grems                  he  'daUy'" if it appears or least f..r timee : we.1
o.- anim'l  and pulse protein, of which 10 greats should be ainial Protein.           Cinema annual attendance Pa- capita par near - Based on the romaber of ticktet
Theme standards ama lowr than thoes of 75 gras, ef total protein end                     e.Id during th  pea., 1Inclding adnieion. to dle i.cueawa, And mebile
23 greams ofe I protein me en aver.ag  for the world, proposed by                        unite.
PbS In the T4ird lurId Food furvey.
Per oanitt  orT....  .upl  fron enial and oules  - Protein sapply of finod             14PL05YfEVT
dervdfo    nmlsadple   ngrass per day                                                 Total la.bor forte (thousands) - lionowlcelly active persons, i.,cludLOg armed
Ch Ild loses- 1-u) mor!ta1lty oats (Par ch.u ...nd   -  nua   eths Per thoua-              forces end unoploved ban macladin  ho"ocs   nd ..... ..r.  D.fini-
and In agc group 1-.. peale. t.  hklldren in this age greup.                             tions is narloec countries are not comparable.
Yemale (percent) - remtale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
gEAI.t                                                                                   Aarictultu.- (rarresntl - Labor force in faming,. forestry, hunting and fishing
Lift emre:uc       brh  Yats) - Average number of years oflife                             aprouA      g  E   tofetal labor force.
.enfeefalbirth: usually five-peer sveraga ending In 1960, 1970,                      Idsr   onei   Labor force in mining, co...truculon. samufcturieg. and
and 1975.                                                                                tluroty. werer and gas as percentageaof 10151 labor force,
Infat mortality rata (Par thousand) - Annu.al deaths of Infant. ander                   Particloetlon rera foe-ceqo - total. meI., anyd fesale - Totel, male. and
one  eecof  ge  or  houauILiv  birts                                             femle labor foc   -opretgeof theIr reepective popoictioa.s
Acress in s.. w!:ater (croto   ouein                 oa.abn           I o  rura I          Thser         0.adjueted participation rates reflecting Ase--se
looker of 7eople (Ltotl. orban, and  -ura) with r          eanable are... rto            atreetore of Ike population. ond lung time trend.
SaeetnSupl   icua  treatuad surac  waters:                  .. or .untretd hut       Eronont  d:pnendeorc raio  -,Ratio of population aedo, 15 and 61 end ov toi
unceratrot d    .e.rech as that from Pr.tected boraholee. spring..                       IkCabrfot  in age grouP of IS-6u peost.
and  aniary  .111  m  pcrsntgeeof thateir .. repcti. popalatiom.S
ae   ulcfoninor standpmat locatel         o   nelCi4  ltltTo
than 200 meters, frc. a hr-. may be onidated s  bee   ihInna                           ecraeo   rv            in,ons (hoth in .. hab nd bind)  aracit,d by richest 5
erublo -;:aaa of that house.  In rura  arees reasoable  ce              ol              porentel  richest II Percent. poorest 20 Pen....tC  and poone .. ' 0 p-ncent
imply rho: the hbc...iwfe or member. of the hb.u.ceold do not have to                    of hoseeholds.
spend a  lpCop.ttLoMatG pert of the day in fetching rho family's
_a-:_sco                                                                             POVERTY TAOPIT tROtOPS
Ac---. to     ri .   acel  no  et o  ncuetoe - tota, unon ad                            Eatioaca.d eb.lute        r      -.qfx.nn  lIv-l fUSS ..T capital - urbeentta -
rural    i..dhr of p,ryi  (total.  -ra. d tonal)  ere  by. enrat.                      haboiut  poverty Income i-el is the.ta..   .ooe .lvI halmr  whic'         il
lupsl  sproroas ot thei  ropc sppltos    E.creta                                nutritionally  adquteilt plus essen.tial no-odraqoiremseta  im not
d  Ipel  a   nludeSthe%tollcction ed.diapoc,wih O  witot                             atffodable.
othe 00   f pit privian and similar installations.                                     RelatIve poverty Irc-r  len1 is that Income ienal I*e. than one-thr
!sius to _.n_boe:, la  - Ppulaiondtiodftd by vomuar of Practicing                par capita parsenci  in"..a of tha coontr-
-1c;oft,   AualliIad fr'. a medical school at untnersIty levl.                       fleoe    cunirhi,   oatL.ivyaivel W(Lrr...t) - urban And rural-
,   tjyo;tcvurs     l-perso- - Popu4i- sion  divdedbhyucber: of                                   *Icnto  poplio  (urban and rural  uho are eIther ".bolute poet' PT
Snmamic AnalpeI. sad Projeclies. )ep.tisret



- 22 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4
-           Z.JAUL.............    Sk74
19 5t        L177        ln             77        16           1!5          1l9         1973        1m           1965         CDP
I;                                                 2364.2        .V.        323.3        2737.6       28,.1       3026.         13.1       411.1072     339.9          2.1          3.1          j.i       1D0.0
ft- .   h    -   f 07    (UT                     04.9       .34.7         2           2390Z 23.2 o              -6.2         2.3       -10          -6.                                                 -
O J       o...± L                                  243.          -7.1       21r2.4.      26669.6 780.1            201.7        31.0 4       403. L      3183A.         4.8          3.3          J.1        96.9
*_. t~o.o                                       911.1       754.1        68.0         743.7       780.7        69.7         837.7       99..        LL19.2 3        .6         4.0           J.:        22.j
7     fo.  - 861o.                                  670.0        367.9       537.7        333.0        374.4       30 47         30. J        88J.       1I .L         0.7          3.9          .          19.
r    ~       - It 64320*                            3654 .9      439.2       067.1        663.3        57.1       5386.3        578.0         6.*4       873:.         0.1   ....16.
*.  76-86*  89 - .       6T 2j66                    3I".2        307.0       11. J           .t I      l 8J3.      23.3         219 7        3L0.0       313.3                                                .9
6   r..o       _                                   2328U.0      2178.       3360.1       233.        361.4        3364         2723.8       3421.6      4394.1         3.7          4.3         4.7         SO.6
9        _n                                         317.3        88.0        136.4        946.4        601.0       654.3        8 77.6        93.3      183.3  6.0                  3.4          5.7        03.3
10    o _0.81 68_                                    L93.3       2n0.6        306.0        36          492.6        314.6        963.9        64 .6       948.         .0.I         -..           5.7        17.8
II    m6       86                                   2   :          60           63         433 2        1.           3.          418. L      183.         64.          -0.7         .3.3          6. 9       16.3
II.                 as 0                                        03           2o6 S        37.           341.                    4670.1      9814.       163.0
1.  L                                                1F 7.32      1.          1.           16.0         24.3        14.7         17.1         16.3        22.6         6.0          7.7          S.r
2.  19t024s                                          36.6        46.3         46.0         38.3         36.6        37.8         37.3         34.3        31.4         2.4          3.3          3
3.  s...o20..                           44~~~~~~~~~~~-I.0  ',4.4  44O.3      44.7         43.1L        41.3        41.8G        46.3         46.3         3.6          5.5.
1.    C     P.o   1                                  991          99.7       112.6        137.2        1.3         132.4        133.0       L17.9        240.1          .           0. 3        o.4
l.   r_s  511.. 164..                                93.3        104.9        206.7       114.6        134.        1.3          144.8        304.3       US.                        8.1          7.1
1 ~~*    06 75.6. 26481                112.3~~~LLI  64.3         13.        116.7        L1: 104.     9.6          93.3        67.1         040 
..  221 5.,120.771l883                               94.1        103.1       133.6        123.18       L37L        143.0        L33.0        214.6       301.2                      7.3          7.0
I   A.45698    c r.o  606 (73. .. U861.20)          7.143        7.414       S 379
Lp.    941         mL97-       LUkEg
L:   _3.                                                       .4.1          4.1          4.1
I.   16  81.2664167            d                      1.6         .3.4       1.1            0.7
3:                                                   LS ,4 z.     *.           ^l       
3.  r_~ s7u^ F s                   j                 11.f *3        .          4.6         1.6
Mn           OL        .   am                     3.2         1.           7.4         18.6
3  g1.1  infi_k6s. 64.                     l          0.            .2         0.1          3.D2
L.P -WOMP                                           38.3         32.7        2I.          24.1
W*    -.W r                                      Lsw 1.7     Li.3         30 .        21.9
8.   __.  o.gar                                       3.2         10.9         6.2          I.:
1.  .44.. 79900                                                          3.t
2   360e i_          12 6                                              106.0 
2.2  7 768                                                               2.0
7 3 3973*                                                                7.0
Olil7zZ1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 1            9  /         p17071      U71/72      ItWM7        192ZaZi    )7175         19751M>      Ni7
1     r5       _716                                            1663         19           2337        3803         3946        398          4772
1 1 06.  _196                                       640        3164         18431        100         386          31          336          4163
2   0         s                                     707        183U         1792          2          2N3          361          37MU         We
2 2    .L MAAA_S8                                   UT 27        13          34           7           96           181         1.37
3    r    _                                                       33          79          134         36           -13          2053        342
4.  946.8.96 54.                                     ..                        J 36        62         214          377          4          1840
7_..0.~          _                             .           332         117          198         453          36           S          207
9.  36.61w  0"          _tf__ 236                           U     89         644S         936         164         2333         2333        2709
7  rJ..1 d   866                                    ..4t        _ z                      .76 -#                                1403 3 t<
6   71240  d* 3   0603612
_42.1  1.86.                                   83         270          347          416         467          6"1
169808                                       ..         21*          236          368         34           46
qb1t-6                                        .         313          144           30         377          720
If       .1   2    2.



-23 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 5
WSANc Of PA~ISM ASO~ LASSAI
S~~~~(Ulc US 9)
1974        1975        97t6        1977        1978        1979         9O         1985        19
A.  Sll8A  0 SAlASM  Of PA'USS
1.  (Wt       i. ttvS)                                      463.9       460.7       605.5       759.7       742.7       787.8       137.3      1402.9      2520.9
2.  Untca (incl. IFS)                                       779.0       793.5       727.9       852.8       970.5      1086.3      tZ13.5      2036.1      3429.2
3.      -   8..                                            -313.1      -332.8      -122.4        93.0       227.8       298.5      -376.2       633. 7     -908.3
4.  St Pamct  Segcc  I_om                                    -S.6       -10.3       -24.6       -21.1       -IS.7       -21.0       -27.3       -75.3      *L43.8
1. 95t T&e t P&7inU of which                            -U3.6       -11.1      _.6.3       -16.1        -L3.7      -16.0        -22.3      -65.3       -133.8
Iteret an P c K & L   L                           (-S.5)     (.41.1)     (42.5)      (i.5.1)     (-17.6)     (-20.2)     (-27.7)                (.961.98
2   ozc ivsomt ow                                        (           C          C           (           (           (           t        ,
3  Wskine_  tA.m   (Ust)                                 (4.8        (S.8       (-3.8       (-5.0       (-3.0       (-3.0       (.3.0      (-10.0      (.10.0
4. o0e   *      S tebiim           ) (t                  (           t                      (           (           (           (          (           (
5.  0g1      rmshf.s (Ust)                                   30.1        71.0        77.9        84.9       110.4       129.4       147.9       235.6       362.5
6.  Wames am /e        4_                                  -291.8      -2n.1       _-9.1        -19.2      _i36.1     -190.1      -255.7       _473.4      -689.6
7. Private Direst   L J,.eoK                                 24.5        27.3        12.3        20.0        20.0        24.0        28.0        35.0        35.0
PmbLin n & LT Loom
8.  D r ts 1f                                               143.1       229.9       116.8      215.6        187.2      271.6        315.5       528.2      SS.7
90.U tta      in                                            *14.9       -15.3       -5A3       -6.5          7.3       -2S.2       -41 4        -51.0 
10.  Xti        _"2Z                                                      1.6        W.         1S.   159.   9E         243.4       274.1      :477          7V1.2
Otiur N1 6 LT am
11.  Dsbrsommts 2/                                            18.2        19.9        11.6         7.2         4.7         1.2         0.6         0.0         0.0
12.   A      C     2-30                                                   -3.          W2-.                               -4.                     -.           20.0
UL3.c M        sm                                             15.2        16.7                     0.1       -0.4         -4.0        4. -53 
14. UIs of IE Isesose  if                                     46.3        28.6        24.3       -24.4       -9.0        -39.0       -20.3         0.0         0.0
L5.  shrt-tm  Ceptal Prineetsa                                24.1         0.0       -1i.9         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
16. CapIttl 7S_msti~.. &.*.i.                               -31.4        -54.0      -31.2          0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0
17. Cb~  in (erves- * tawres_)                                84.8        38.7       -24.2     -165.8       -34,4       -34.3       -21.2        -13.5      -56.8
1. 411D~ ilSO IDIS            1
1. OffICI  Cas                                              100.0       187.9       123.7
Z.  Tatal Public K & 1? Loam                                260.4       152.3       183.0
2.1  n3                                                  65.0        30.0        37.0
2.2 1ID                                                  61.2        10.0        52.0
2.3  Othm  m olltecal                                     7.1        15.0         5.0
2.4  Qo,gmmt                                           1.27.1        94.3        77.3
ef  *   csnraly p1           ss7_ss j/           76.5         5.4          -
2.5  SpLlws                                               _      
2.6  Flams±. Iin                                                 -               11.7
2.7 _Ban"
2.8 Publc lae. a.-..                                             -                 -
3. Otwr N & LT tam  (_Asm awsl1 abe)L/                        5.6         2.9         6.0
C. lmzImI 7
1. Grant igt of Ura1.  _tet                                  63.5        69.6        71.3
2. Averae Ilateat (Psoet)                                     2.2         3.5         3.3
3. Averae Ntwity (Yars)                                      32          42          36
Iclud   ffamig of projeted bal_anc of pa"ma d6t.At (1977-1990) an 50S _1m/=   =  etar.
Z/  Disburemt e. rspa_t of Sik Lame for VA projece of wich Tmie' s shisIe  a MCI=al 40 pezcmt.
" te of "Dr~    eA "Repsymet by Parth'es.
Mlo dese CHU emAtteeA,  "Lou'us No pblin of  -n-, orth Keam. _    3edllat Impublia of  1e5e.
aspopemo a eotl uu  40 pursue  of  ia  Le fer 30 pumwa.
UN
CPl-A



-24-                                        ANNEX I
Page 6
TANZANIA
OD? AND CR28?IDr{DIf5S 1/
1974        1975        1976
A. M?DXrN AID   4G TM  DIT  (Dibiased DeLy)
1.  Total Debt Oe:st-and     (DM: Sld of PIRiOd)y/                 697.7       923.7       1030.7
2.  Includina UlsbiUwed                                           1251.4      13s.6        1544.6
3.  Public Debt Service                                             23.5        26.5         2.2:
1.  iccereI                                                    8.6        11.2        12.5
4. Other X 6 LT Dbe Serie  21                                        8.1          8.2        12.4
3.  2T LURDEN ,/
1. Debt Service Ratio                                                6.8         7.3          6.7
2. Debt Servc/CDP                                                    1.4         1.4          1.5
3.  Public Debt Servc/C_oyetmate                                     6.5         6.5          7.8
C.   y~
1.  lrteest on Total DD/Total DOD                                    2.1.        1.9          1.8
2.  Total Debt SrvLe/Total DOD                                       4.9         4.0          3.9
D. DU           ARTIOS FM h &LT D1T581/
1.  arau  sbrsbuz/imorts (intl. NYS)                                20.7        31.5         17.6
2. Not Tfreter/f.ports (intl. UtS)                                  16.8        22.2         10.5
3. Nec Trunsfer/fwos Oi.abursinnt                                   88.9        89.8        83.3
8.  exisrz 
1.  IRD 0idsbiwsitca/Gsa TotaL Dibm           to                    10.3        21.0        14.7
2.  1r   koup Dtsb'.zre.ta/(mss Tot   Mberem                        14.0        2a.1         36.8
3.  MMD DOD/taTtl DDD                                               12.9        15.3        15.3
4.  Book    up DOD/Total MDD                                        22M0        24.0        25.9
5.  TED Debt Service*ta  Debt SevicO                                20.9        26.2        32.3
6. Bank Grup Debt Service/Total Debt Sevic                          23.1        26.2        34.7
Outstandica Dec. 31. 1976
Aimt      Pecent
(W8 S ilLou)
EP.   L  DQT (Disbursed Only)
1   r8BRD                                                                       90.1         9.9
2.  Bank Group                                                                 10I.9         11.9
3.  Other Multilateral                                                          18.1         2.0
4.  Governmnts                                                                 655.8        71.8
of shich Centrally nand Ecmm.ss                                          292.5        32.0
5.  supplier                                                                    22.2         2.4
6.  Ft- 1ial rastie ie                                                           8.2         0.9
7. ucAe                                                                          3.4         0.4
8.  Public  bt a.6.i.                                                            7.1         0.8
9.  Total Public M 4 LT Debt                                                   913.8       100.0
10.  Othr   & LT Debt 1/                                                        116.9        12.8
11.  Total PublIe Debt (itcl. Dadisbiwsed)                                     1414.0       154.7
12.  Total N & LT Debt (icl. Undiebursed)  /                                   1544. 6      169.0
1/  Includes a wotiml 40 percet abre of leos to the ZAC-
T/ Repr"ests a aoticual 40 percet shoe of debc service an Lome to the  A.
3/  Includes Ql  coutries, People's lepebtc of Cha, barth Koea  SocALlt lepbL  of Viet..
UAN, CPI-A



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
Und is-
No.         Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/  bursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                70.2           90.8
586-TA    1969  Tanzania  Roads                               7.0                   1.4
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                   10.8    1.8
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Education                                         10.3    3.4
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                         18.5    5.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                            17.5   11.3
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                           6.0    1.0
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                          21.0                   5.6
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                 8.5    3.0
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                               10.2    5.3
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                 10.0    6.9
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                               9.0                   2.0
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                             10.0    6.9
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                            15.0                   3.4
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                   2.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                              6.0    4.8
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                           18.0   12.6
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Education                                         11.0    9.2
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                    30.0            21.6
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                            7.0                   5.5
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                         9.0    8.8
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                8.0    2.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                15.0                   14.7
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex              11.5             7.3
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                       7.3
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                        7.2    6.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                        12.0   12.0
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                         15.0   14.8
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank         15.0                   14.8
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                 27.5   24.4
802-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                 14.0   14.0
803-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                    12.0   12.0
1607-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                  25.0                   25.0
833-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                 20.0   20.0
Total                                                    210.7  41.5   352.3  297.6
of which has been repaid                                   4.6      -     7.0
Total now outstanding                                    206.1  41.5   345.3
Amount sold                          0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                        206.1  41.5   345.3
Total undisbursed                                         82.2  28.9   186.5  297.6
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1978
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/           Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC           Harbours             35.0                0.9
674-EA  1970    EARC           Railways             42.4                3.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC           Harbours             26.5                1.1
914-EA  1973    EAPTC          Telecommunications  32.5                 5.6
1204-EA  1976    EADB           Development Finance 15.0                 8.3
Total                                           244.8               19.0
of which has been repaid                      46.4
Total now outstanding                           198.4
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       198.4
Total undisbursed                                19.0               19.0
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of November 30, 1978)
There are currently 30 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972;  Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972;  Closing Date - December 31, 1979
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in im-
proved control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and poor farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted
since 1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than
anticipated. In line with the 1976 survey, additional planting has been
carried out and effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved
except in the Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields,
husbandry techniques, field organization, TTA structure and extension acti-
vities are now being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have
taken a favorable turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to
improve. The closing date was postponed to allow sufficient time for comple-
tion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 16
the same organizational problems evident during the review and the seriousness
of the situation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, significant progress has been made since the review but major pro-
blems remain and require continued attention. The closing date of the Credit
may have to be postponed by 12 months in order to complete the ranch develop-
ment program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the crop
technical packages to give economic responses, the project must now be con-
sidered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather than
an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites. Recruitment of staff has been more vigorously
pursued since the Project Implementation Reviews began. The major project
problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the shortage of extension
staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the delay in producing accounts.
The project will continue to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery
has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its man-
agement capabilities are limited.  Therefore, while the Government's con-
sultants have effectively supervised construction and the project includes
provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the development
of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project implementation and disbursements remain well behind
appraisal estimates. During the past six months, progress has been slow
due to continued weak management at both the regional and district levels,
the loss of significant numbers of trained agricultural and cooperatives
staff as a result of their appointment as Village Managers, and the out-
break of cholera in two of the region's three districts. To allow for
a period of consolidation of project management, only four additional



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16
villages are to be included in the investment program for the next fiscal
year, bringing the total number of project villages to 61. A Joint-Mid-
term Evaluation of the project was conducted in late October 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production and the opera-
tion of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses (mainly
because Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions
vacated by expatriates). After heavy losses in 1977, mostly due to difficul-
ties in starting operations of the new factory, KSC is expected to break-
even. Phase III of the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed
by March 1979. The Sugar Development Corporation has requested Finance to
consider KSC's proposals as to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the
terms of the Government loans; a decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delay in imple-
mention. All formalities with regard to the establishment of the commercial
centers both for the coastal and Lake Tanganyika fisheries have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procurement
of engines and fishing gear. Of the four Ujamaa villages identified for
investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program two have been selected and
their investment plans have been prepared. It is expected that active fishing
operations in all cases should begin before the end of 1978.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. The project's exten-
sion services are seriously understaffed, and the deficiencies of extension
services and the Government's continued indecision on its reorganization are



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16
constraints affecting project implementation. Farmers' contributions to the
financing of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize
potential about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner,
but in the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A
recent decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has
doubled the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties
experienced result from limited cooperation between the central ministry
responsible for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of
local implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on
monoculture of maize. A joint RMEA/ Headquarters mission recently reviewed
the above difficulties and its recommendations have been largely endorsed by
the Government.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be success-
fully implemented and the milk processing expansion is almost completed. The
loan security/occupancy rights problems have been resolved for most farms. A
shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya
are imminent problems. The Ujamaa component proceeds slowly and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative means of assist-
ing village milk production and consumption. The foot and mouth disease
control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, project implementa-
tion has improved considerably and is now more or less on schedule. The
nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. Progress on fire protection, road construction and
buildings is satisfactory. All posts are now filled and management has
been reinforced. There are no serious procurement nor disbursement prob-
lems, although both are still slightly behind schedule.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed in April 1978, a
year behind schedule. The delay did not interfere with processing, as the



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16
crop was only 14.5 m kg against an estimated 20 m kg. Equipment for the new
line is arriving and the line will be operative by April 1979 when factory
capacity will be about 40 m kg against probable production of 2C-26 m kg.
Efforts will therefore be made to step up production during the 1978/79
season to ensure a good factory throughput in 1979. Building work at Morogoro
is proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional respon-
sibilities of these entities. The study of TAT's financial system will
commence as soon as the cholera quarantine is relaxed and TAT have been
requested to employ a Systems Accountant without further delay. TTPC's
accounts for 1976/77 have been audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Good progress has been made in project implementation, although
overall implementation is somewhat behind schedule, largely as a result of
delays in the delivery of vehicles and equipment. Key staff of the Project
Secretariat has been in post since early 1978, and the Secretariat is func-
tioning well. The agricultural component is, however, facing serious prob-
lems. The 1977/78 program of village trials (which are indended to validate
the Project's technical packages prior to dissemination to farmers) was
a failure as a result of lack of transport and poor coordination between
regional and district-level staff. The 1978/79 trials programs faces problems
as a result of a shortage of staff to assist in the conduct of these trials
following the appointment of over 50 percent of the region's trained agricul-
tural extension staff as Village Managers.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development
Project; US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness - October 2, 1978; Closing Date -
December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Closing Date - April 30, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 16
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
91%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1979. Total project cost is now
estimated at about TSh 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the
appraisal estimate of TSh 104 million. The Government do not foresee any
financial problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community
Education Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village
development, education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational
Training Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical
assistance and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching
funds disbursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship
component of the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvements. Housing construction is in line with VMT training
which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment of over
500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are also dealys in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy expects for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Crec st No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: 1/ US$6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 114 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1979. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only US$1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
1/   The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was postponed to
December 31, 1978.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 16
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on all
project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is nearing
completion. Education facilities for the Dar es Salaam sites have been ten-
dered; the rest of the community facilities in the project are to be tendered
soon. Progress on the lending program administered by the Tanzania Housing
Bank is slow but likely to pick up. Total project cost is estimated (at
current exchange rates) at US$15 million, compared to the appraisal estimate
of US$16.7 million.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This credit became effective on April 3, 1978. Progress on imple-
mentation is satisfactory for the residential components.  Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. The
Consultants' report on the Land Rent and Service Charge Study was approved
by the Government in January 1978 and a pilot test of the new system for cost
recovery proposed in the study is to be carried out in Morogoro.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in connection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as a
year. Out of three senior advisors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and the bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being finalized. Nine-month delay
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEM's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenya border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signifi-
cantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project re-
port for duty.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 16
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. The main civil contractor has not yet completed its mobiliza-
tion; therefore, principal civil construction works at Mtera is five months
behind schedule. Current estimated project cost is US$117 million compared
to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost overrun of 31%. The foreign
exchange gap in IBRD/SIDA-financed portion is about US$14.1 million. SIDA
has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its allocation to cover
its proportionate share of the cost overruns (about US$6 million). At present,
the Bank has no plans to make any additional contribution to bridge the gap.
By early 1979, the issue should be reviewed and arrangements made for the
necessary funds.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation of
funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under implemen-
tation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing date has
been postponed to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable. There has
been a deterioration in the operating performance of the existing Mwanza
plant as well as some other textile mills. The National Textile Corporation



- 36
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 16
(TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to
institute an immediate action program to improve the operating performance of
existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
With the arrival of a new project team leader from TATA in February
1978, the project is now expected to be implemented smoothly. Total commit-
ments as of May 31, 1978 was US$2.1 million of which US$1.7 million, US$0.3
million and US$0.1 million were for consultancy services, training and project
unit services, respectively. The procedures for processing proposals are
being streamlined and it is expected that the pace of commitments and dis-
bursements will be increased as a result.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of some
initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of procurement.
Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual components
of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still scheduled for
July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher than those
contained in the Appraisal Report.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3,
1978: Closing Date - June 30, 1981
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 16
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978                            _
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of
the minor project elements, only two are still under construction, namely
the improvement of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds
in Mombasa. Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerabley. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning
completely independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania
Harbours Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected
to be established soon. Management of Ports in both countries is compe-
tent. Some US$33.8 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4 million of Loan 865-
EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds
at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                             1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                             2.0



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since the
amount allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified
under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978 (referred to in a
report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977-R77-312), were are
continuing disbursements.
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution of
the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system con-
struction have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing
and other problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters.
Funds disbursed to date total US$26.9 million and the balance has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and associated multi-
plex equipment. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The
Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 among the countries con-
cerned is given below:



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 16
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to 50%
as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all its
staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some US$6.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
As of November 30, 1978
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing   3.96    0.70          4.66
1978            Highland Soap               Soap Manufacture  1.37    0.38       1.75
Total gross commitments                     5.33    1.08      6.41
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   3.96    0.70      4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC           1.37    0.38      1.75
Total Undisbursed                           1.37    0.38      1.75



- 41 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                 10 months
(b)  Preparation by:                               Government and Consultants
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:                  November 1976
(d)  First IDA mission:                            June 1977
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   April 3, 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:           November 30, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                April 30, 1979
II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
NONE.
III. Special Conditions
(1)  By March 31, 1978 or such later date as the Association may
accept, the Borrower shall adopt a management system with
operational guidelines which would enable MOW to determine and
exercise full authority and control over trunk road maintenance
programs and equipment and thereafter, develop a program in
consultation with the Association to implement such management
system (para. 28);
(2) Appointment in post of experienced and qualified advisors to the
Maintenance Management Engineer, the Maintenance Administrator
and the Plant and Procurement Engineer (condition of effective-
ness, para. 45);
(3) Appointment in post of six local staff to the key positions for
which road maintenance advisors are provided under the project
(condition of effectiveness, para. 48);
(4) Preparation of a two-year recruitment and training program,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association with respect
to trainees at the Morogoro Training School (condition of disburse-
ment for related advisors, Para 49); and
(5) Detailed annual project implementation programs will be submitted
to the Association for review by April 30 of each year during
implementation, starting in 1979 (para. 50).






IBRD 13777
Li GA J,) s Kpk: D A  N                                                                                                 1E: )0  \ 0 t:  t  , j                                                                                       -   i \V AUGUST 1978
-            ~~KENYA
T N Z A                I :  ANZANA
as~~~~ge         o,~~~~~~sosora                                             '~~~~~~~Nanlof                            f4ATICONAt L>r~,  r
NANON  p                                                  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CP  EAST    Z A I R                     OrSIrr,
s ulu~~Ul                                                                             I                                      Ki   -- /|^   $   i> -- - =    M oi-    q      fi;ScrrorrrJ
e0  S V                   0TJ            w *' I  A,MOI
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AlA<u       /                                                                                                 Usz ,I . -  !5 w N=
tAIkE  0<   AumRvt                         /             w|                      IRI~~~~~~~~~~~NON - 045    Maarul                                        A                       \ C   2r             LeoID10Irc2c,2
TANZANIA
-                                                                                                                Ff tifth Highway Project
ROAD MAINTENANCE
-Primary roods
--rqJ                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secesriory roads
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                                                                       lm-fo oi rpNon,e -?/t/
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO                                                                                                                 Oru-. arr  1z+s -   
fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eu .EB IAX / %tq_\>/SLAND      Ctff 
4 Schea[Ulu  s-rce airpo,ts
Segr.sa hreadqvarrers
}~~~~~~~~~~~~ ER                                                                                                                                       I A'~                -XUo_.  aL                  Rg-  hur rt\  i.tY  s
Rearwooal b .u.d.ries
rl-bi                                                                                                                                        P'.gra. l.. .  ... d_ ',.ry J    i 2 t '  :' " /JL 8 ' : \  g t ,  ! U . )W;  arrraabua
h                                       Pm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rgro,, areas u-de, thms pra act
Lto S. .o j  2riz  rMaaeonso prarn road seul,ons
K.TAVi PLAN  R                                                                                                                         Ur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anl codisa
ioa,  Th. -ror l eds -Unrs f ra our
K,b I                      0   204060  0 100120   1'0    200   20Z
\Nya               r                 20   00   00   00 1'0  120 '0  1f0
k.y.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hmme.r~eromwruorvroeereuu
Ni-be~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mrn                                   le   oee     vouAruO,eu.rr/eur.  runumrueAsu
INrAu  OererdumpuurrO  uSusmfO mOAV 0
z  A   M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~are5mr                                                                                          vor~v           ~         .rereveeveovOOe,.elrrer
/~~~~~~~~~~~~7M'.
SOee,   0                                                                          00mo



