CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 876 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 2, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 876 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 1979, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million five hundred thousand dollars
($20,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1989, and ending October 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) -f
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Works with due diligence and efficiency
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in: (i)
planning and initiating project implementation, in preparing
specifications and documents for equipment procurement and in
carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
qualified and experienced advisors to the (A) Maintenance Manage-
ment Engineer, (B) Maintenance Administrator, and (C) Plant and
Procurement Engineer; and (ii) on-the-job training for staff and
field personnel of the Ministry of Works, the Borrower shall


﻿- 3 -
employ qualified and experienced advisors; all on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and in
accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint local staff, having qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, to each position in the Ministry of Works maintenance
section to which advisors are to be provided under the Project in
accordance with the foregoing paragraph (a) prior to the date
such advisors are employed, but in any event not later than
December 31, 1979, or such later date as the Association may
accept.
(c) In r-der to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part
C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or continue to
employ, qualified and experienced advisors, all on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and in
accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A.2 and A.4 of the
Project the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed con-
tractors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
or if the Association shall agree, carry out such parts of the
Project by force account.
Section 3.04. With respect to Part C.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall, by June 1, 1979, make arrangements satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association for the training for its
Ministry of Works of approximately 120 high school graduates in an
engineering program at appropriate institutions of higher educa-
tion.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1979, or such
later date as the Association may accept, adopt a management
system (with operational guidelines) which, in a manner consistent
with the Borrower's overall decentralization policies, would
ei,able its Ministry of Works to determine and exercise full
authority over trunk road maintenance programs and to control
trunk road maintenance equipment. The Borrower shall develop a
program in consultation with the Association to implement such
management system.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall by April 30, 1979, and by
each April 30 thereafter until the Project has been completed,


﻿submit, or cause to be submitted, to the Association for its
review a detailed annual project implementation program, including
exact locations, designs, construction details, cost estimates,
proposed budgetary allocations, and actions to be taken in connec-
tion with the program referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall prepare a two-year program,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, for the recruit-
ment and training of trainees in the Morogoro Training School of
the Ministry of Works.
Section 3.08. With respect to Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall submit, or cause to be submitted, by December 31,
1979, or such later date as the Association may accept, to the
Association for its review and approval a detailed implemen-
tation program, including a list of spare parts for repair and
rehabilitation of existing regional equipment and a plan for
deploying technical assistance.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the


﻿-5-
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the,
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than three months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all Project road
camps, workshops, road maintenance equipment and related facili-
ties to be operated and adequately maintained and all necessary
repairs thereof to be made in accordance with appropriate engi-
neering practices.
Section 4.03. The Project road mair'enance and rehabilitation
equipment, including related worksho,, equipment, spare parts


﻿-6-
and tools will only be deployed for use (a) by the ancillary
plant pool, after the advisor to the mechanical supervisor is in
post; and (b) by road maintenance rehabilitation and regravelling
crews, after the respective advisors to the trunk road maintenance
superintendents, road works superintendents and equipment service
managers are in post.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall make, or cause to be made,
regular and systematic traffic counts on its trunk road network.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall progressively apply and
continue to apply its increased road maintenance capacity and
improved road maintenance capability assisted and developed under
this Project and the Highway Maintenance Project (described in the
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation dated August 21, 1974) to the maintenance of its trunk
roads system in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices and shall promptly provide the funds required for the
foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the advisors referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (i) shall
be in post; and
(b) the following local staff of the Ministry of Works
shall have been appointed in post in accordance with Section 3.02
(b): Maintenance Management Engineer, Maintenance Administrator,
Plant and Procurement Engineer, Mechanical Supervisor, one
Trunk Road Maintenance Superintendent and one Roadworks Super-
intendent.
Section 5.02. The date May 31, 1)79, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02, 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on


﻿-7-
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twelve years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.Co                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By Is/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Road maintenance and        12,840,000       100% of foreign
workshop equipment,                          expenditures and
vehicles, materials,                         70% of local
tools, training aids                        expenditures
and spare parts
(2) Civil works:
(a) Road camps                360,000       15%
(b) Housing                    200,000      40%
(3) Technical assistance
and training for:
(a) Parts A, B and           2,430,000      100% of foreign
C.1 of the Proj-                       expenditures
ect
(b) Part C.2 of              1,250,000      100% of foreign
the Project                            expenditures
(c) Part C.3 of               420,000       100% of foreign
the Project                            expenditures
(4) Unallocated                  3,000,000
TOTAL        20,500,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by noti,ce to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreemeut, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $40,000 may be made in respect of Category 3 (a) on account of
payments made for expenditures for technical assistance provided
for in Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement before that date but
after January 1, 1979; and (b) expenditures for technical assis-
tance and training under Category 3 (c) until the program referred
to in Section 3.07 shall have been agreed upon between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associ-
ation are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such


﻿- 11 -
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second stage of the Borrower's program to
improve the maintenance of trunk roads throughout Tanzania, and
includes a pilot program for regional road maintenance. The
Project includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Road Maintenance
1.   The maintenance (including, where necessary, the
rehabilitation) of about 2,700 kilometers of the 5,100
kilometers of trunk roads in the following regions:
Arusha, Dodoma, Kigoma, Kilimanjaro, Mara, Mwanza,
Rukwa, Shinyanga, Singida, Tabora and West Lake.
2.   The construction and improvement, where necessary, of
road camps along the roads included in Part A.1 of the
Project.
3.   The provision of road maintenance and workshop equip-
ment, vehicles, spare parts, tools, training aids and
materials for use by (a) the Ministry of Works' zonal
workshops, (b) the Ministry of Works' training school at
Morogoro, and (c) the maintenance crews carrying out
Part A.1 of the Project.
4.   The construction of about 16 houses for use by advisors
under Part C.1 of the Project.
Part B:   Pilot Program for Regional Road Maintenance
Carrying out a pilot program to strengthen and improve
Mwanza Region and Zanzibar road maintenance through equipment
repair and rehabilitation and technical assistance.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Strengthening the capabilities of the Borrower's
Ministry of Works by the provision of technical assis-
tance in training on-the-job and planning.
2.   Training of engineers for the Borrower's Ministry of
Works.


﻿- 13 -
3.   The provision of additional advisors to the instructors
for the Morogoro Training School of the Ministry of
Works.
Part D:  Ministry of Works Staffing
Carrying out a review of Ministry of Works staffing to
improve manpower allocation and utilization within the Ministry.
The results and recommendations of this review, including an
implementation schedule, shall be furnished to the Association for
comment by March 31, 1979, or such later date as the Association
may accept.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Technical specifications and lists of equipment to be pur-
chased for the zonal workshops included in Part A.3 (a) of the
Project shall be submitted to the Association for its review and
approval.
4.   Orders shall be grouped to the maximum extent possible for
the purposes of bidding and procurement.
5.   Suppliers of equipment to be procured in accordance with
paragraph 1 above will be required to provide in Tanzania services
for the training of mechanics, service personnel and equipment
operators, and to maintain in Tanzania an adequate service
organization, including a reasonable inventory of spare parts.
6.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international


﻿- 15 -
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods;
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tanzania equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tanzania.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿- 16 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for training aids for Part A.3 (b) of the Project
may be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's applicable
competitive bidding procedures. Lists of such training aids
will be submitted to the Association for its review and
approval.
2.   Contracts for spare parts for rehabilitation of existing
equipment for Part B of the Project may be awarded in accordance
with the Borrower's applicable procedures. Lists of such spare
parts will be submitted to the Association for its review and
approval.
3.   Off-the-shelf items estimated to cost less than $15,000
equivalent each may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
applicable procedures, provided that the maximum value of con-
tracts awarded pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed
$200,000 equivalent.
4.   If the Association shall so agree, contracts for civil works,
including housing, may be awarded in accordance with the Bor-
rower's applicable procedures, or such civil works, including
housing, may be carried out by force account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 17 -
With respect to all contracts to be awarded pursuant to the
provisions of Part A of this Schedule estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it


﻿- 18 -
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price for contracts financed under
Category (1) of Schedule 1, more than 25% of the original price
for contracts financed under Category (2) of Schedule 1 and more
than 15% for contracts financed under Category (3) of Schedule 1,
the Borrower shall inform the Association of the proposed modifi-
cation, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons
therefor. The Association, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement,
shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Technical Assistance
The table below sets forth the advisors to be employed in
connection with the Project and the duration of their appoint-
ments.
Approximate
Program/Post                                No.          Man-months
Road Maintenance Program
Advisors to:
Maintenance Management Engineer             1               36
Maintenance Administrator                   1               36
Plant and Procurement Engineer              1               36
Mechanical Supervisor                       1               30
Bridge and Culvert Superintendent           1               24
Trunk Road Maintenance Superintendent       5              132
Equipment Service Manager                   5              126
Roadworks Superintendent                    3               78
Morogoro Training School
Advisors to:
Training Coordinator                        1               24
Mechanics Instructor                        1               24
Roadworks Instructor                        1               18
Electrical Systems Instructor               1               24


