                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2934



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-92337)

                                       ON A

                  FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE TRUST FUND
                                  GRANT

           UNDER THE GLOBAL PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.0 MILLION

                                      AND A

          RUSSIA FOOD PRICE CRISIS RAPID RESPONSE TRUST FUND

        ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.25 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                      FOR A

         EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY AND SEED IMPORTS PROJECT




                                September 17, 2013


Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective August 21, 2013)

                            Currency Unit = Somoni
                    US$ 1.00 = 4.7665 Tajikistan Somoni (TJS)

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
CPG     Community Production Group
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CSF     Community Seed Fund
CSRP    Cotton Sector Reform Project
DF      Dehkan Farm
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FPSP    Farm Privatization Support Project
GFCRP   Global Food Crisis Response Program
JPIU    Joint Project Implementation Unit
KPI     Key Performance Indicators
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoA     Ministry of Agriculture
MoF     Ministry of Finance
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMU     Project Management Unit
SIDA    Swedish International Development Association
TFFCR   Trust Fund for Food Crisis Response
TJS     Tajikistan Somoni
WFP     World Food Program


         Vice President:                Laura Tuck
         Country Director:              Saroj Kumar Jha
         Sector Manager:                Dina Umali-Deininger
         Project/ICR Team Leader:       Bobojon Yatimov
         ICR Author:                    Malathi Jayawickrama




                                         ii
                            TAJIKISTAN
          EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY AND SEED IMPORTS PROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS


DATA SHEET ..................................................................................................................... iv
A. Basic Information............................................................................................................ iv
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ iv
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes ..................................................................................................v
E. Bank Staff ..........................................................................................................................v
F. Results Framework Analysis ........................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ......................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ...................................................................................................... ix
I. Disbursement Profile .........................................................................................................x

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .....................................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................20
6. Lessons Learned ..............................................................................................................22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................................24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ........................................................................................25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...................37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................................39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..........................................................40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................41
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .............................43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .............................................................................44

MAP




                                                                 iii
                                       DATA SHEET


A. Basic Information

                                                                            EMERGENCY FOOD
Country:                Tajikistan                Project Name:             SECURITY AND SEED
                                                                            IMPORTS PROJECT
Project ID:             P112157                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92337
ICR Date:               10/29/2013                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:
                                                                            TAJIKISTAN
Original Total
                        USD 5.00M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.97M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.97M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Management Unit
 The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         22/05/2008    Effectiveness:                               09/17/2008
                                                                                   03/03/2010
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   12/21/2010
Approval:               06/13/2008    Mid-term Review:            10/17/2011       10/10/2011
                                      Closing:                    05/01/2010       05/01/2013

C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory




                                                 iv
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                     Ratings                  Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory              Government:                   Satisfactory
                                                     Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                               Satisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                            Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                                   Rating
     Performance                                     any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of Supervision
                             No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                        Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                        35                        35
Crops                                                                    65                        65


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                               100                      100

E. Bank Staff

         Positions                          At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Laura Tuck                            Shigeo Katsu

Country Director:            Saroj Kumar Jha                       Annette Dixon

Sector Manager:              Dina Umali-Deininger                  Peter D. Thomson

Project Team Leader:         Bobojon Yatimov                       Bekzod Shamsiev

ICR Team Leader:             Bobojon Yatimov

ICR Primary Author:          Malathi S. Jayawickrama



                                                     v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

To increase domestic food production and reduce the loss of livestock to help at least 28,000
poorest households in a timely manner to reduce the negative impact of high and volatile
food prices.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

To: (i) increase domestic food production and reduce livestock losses to help at least 55,000
poorest households; (ii) improve the ability of poor households to deal with seed shortages
due to poor crops; and (iii) promote private commercial farming in order to increase food
production and diversification.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                 Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                   approval                           Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                  documents)                           Target Years
                  Increase in cereal production by at least 35,000 tons for 55,000 food insecure rural
Indicator 1 :
                  households
Value                                                               35,000 tons for
                    0 for cereal production     25,000 tons for                       51,000 tons for
quantitative or                                                         55,000
                    from high quality seed 28,000 households                         93,000 households
Qualitative)                                                          households
Date achieved             05/27/2008              06/30/2009        03/03/2010         05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          145% achievement in tons and 170% achievement in households that benefited.
achievement)
                  Reduce livestock losses as reflected in declined mortality rates among livestock held
Indicator 2 :
                  by 7,000 beneficiary households
                                                                                      Mortality rate of
Value                                                                                 large ruminants
quantitative or              35%                      20%                           reduced by 72%; of
Qualitative)                                                                          small ruminants
                                                                                      reduced by 96%
Date achieved             05/27/2008              06/30/2009                           05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     New functioning community production groups
Value
quantitative or                0                                       1,095              1,480
Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/27/2008                                03/03/2010         05/01/2013

                                                   vi
Comments
(incl. %          135% achievement.
achievement)
                  Increase in share of non-cotton agriculture in the total value of agriculture sector
Indicator 4 :
                  output
Value
quantitative or              50%                                         60%                 65%
Qualitative)
Date achieved             06/30/2009                                  03/03/2010         05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Food production increased by at least 10% during the project life.
Value
quantitative or                0                                         10%                 35%
Qualitative)
Date achieved             06/30/2009                                  03/03/2010         05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                 Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                   approval                            Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Area planted by beneficiary households
Value
(quantitative                  0                 7,500 hectares                         7,700 hectares
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/27/2008               06/30/2009                            05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          103% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Volume of livestock fodder produced associated with project activities
Value
                                                                    at least 10,000    21,000 to 24,500
(quantitative                  0
                                                                          tons               tons
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/27/2008                                  03/03/2010         05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          210% achievement
achievement)


                                                   vii
Indicator 3 :     Number of people trained in extension programs in the project areas
Value
(quantitative                  0                     5,250                               12,166
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/27/2008              06/30/2009                            05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          231% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Volume of seed and fertilizer delivered to CPGs (tons)
                                                                    450 tons of
Value
                                                                  seed and 1,100 470 tons of seed and
(quantitative                  0
                                                                      tons of    941 tons of fertilizer
or Qualitative)
                                                                     fertilizer
Date achieved             05/27/2008                                03/03/2010          05/01/2013
Comments
                  104% achievement in seeds delivered and 85% achievement in fertilizer delivered to
(incl. %
                  CPGs
achievement)
                  Number of families receiving seed and other benefits through community production
Indicator 5 :
                  groups
Value
(quantitative                  0                                      18,000             25,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/27/2008                                03/03/2010          05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          139% achievement
achievement)
                  Number of people participating in seminars for dealers, farmers and agricultural
Indicator 6 :
                  experts
Value
(quantitative                  0                                       1,150              2,997
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/27/2008                                03/03/2010          05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          260% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Value of private sector sales in agro-inputs nationwide
Value
(quantitative           17 million US$                            30 million US$    57 million US$
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             06/30/2009                                03/03/2010          05/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          190% achievement
achievement)

                                                  viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/29/2008          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     06/29/2009          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  5.00
  3     01/30/2011    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            5.00
  4     07/10/2011    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            5.00
  5     12/20/2011          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  4.97
  6     06/20/2012          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  4.97
  7     12/24/2012          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  4.97
  8     05/17/2013    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            4.97

H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                   Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
                  Approved
    Date(s)                                Restructuring        Key Changes Made
                 PDO Change DO       IP in USD millions
                                                         To add US$6.25 in Additional
  03/03/2010         Y        S       S          5.00    Financing and to enhance (scale
                                                         up) the PDO and activities.
                                                         To add the Fertilizer Revolving
  12/21/2010         N        S       S          5.00    Fund to enable part (iii) of the
                                                         PDO to be met.

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                  Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                          Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                     Satisfactory




                                                ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Tajikistan experienced a significant increase in food insecurity during 2007-2008,
following a harsh winter that resulted in power shortages, increased energy prices,
reduced cereal production and livestock productivity, and considerable hardship for
low-income households. The sharply rising prices of imported food and their volatility in
2008 further exacerbated the difficulties of the poor in an already deeply poor country, where
approximately 5.2 million people lived in rural areas, and an estimated 3.4 million or 65% of
whom were living below the poverty line of $2.15/day. 1

2.      Food monitoring and food security surveys indicated that these events had
affected some 550,000 people who were suffering from food shortages and remained
vulnerable to further shocks. Low-income rural people survived the winter by selling
livestock and using their limited food and seed reserves, but now lacked the resources to
assure food production and cope with rising food prices. Households in cotton-growing areas
were the worst affected. Unfortunately, the traditional focus on cotton had resulted in a
disproportionate allocation of public and private resources to this sector, and the requirement
that farmers in cotton areas had to use at least 80% of their arable land for cotton had forced
them to depend heavily on a single, low-return cash crop for their livelihoods. 2 The previous
summer’s drought, combined with the severe winter had also weakened much of the
livestock in Tajikistan, which for the poor resembled a savings account and that account had
been significantly depleted. With minimal income and the limited ability to grow forage
crops and the constraints to livestock production for their own consumption, farmers in these
areas, especially in the Khatlon region had inevitably become some of the poorest people in
Tajikistan. This high level of poverty in turn reduced their capacity to respond to external
shocks. Consumers also remained highly dependent on imported food and vulnerable to
rising world food prices. Worldwide, the ultimate solution to increased cereal prices was
greater cereal production, but with rapidly rising prices for agricultural inputs combined with
significant constraints to accessing credit, Tajik farmers were not expected to become part of
this solution. Both producers and consumers were suffering as a result and remained
vulnerable to further shocks.

3.     A UN Flash Appeal was conducted to address the humanitarian crisis following
the severe winter, including measures to address the food crisis, and the Government of
Tajikistan (GOT) made an urgent plea for support from the international community.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), World Food Program
(WFP) and The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) had conducted a needs
assessment that had identified urgent priorities including: i) nutrition (special emphasis on
children), and ii) providing agricultural inputs to the most needy and vulnerable the country.

1
  Tajikistan Emergency Food Security and Seed Imports Project (EFSIP), Restructuring Paper, July
23, 2009.
2
  The World Bank’s Cotton Sector Recovery Project (CSRP), which aimed to remove policy
distortions that had led to the cotton crisis, had become effective on September 28, 2007.
                                               1
4.      The Bank proposed to provide support through the Emergency Food Security
and Seed Imports Project (EFSSIP), for agricultural inputs to the most needy and
vulnerable (and separate additional financing for the Community and Basic Health
Project). The EFSSIP was to channel resources through the UN system. Both activities were
to be financed from the Trust Fund for Food Crisis Response (TFFCR). Consistent with the
principles of OP 8.0, the project was to address major adverse economic and social impacts
resulting from further agricultural yield depressions and reduce the loss in livestock
population below sustainability levels. The Project was to be implemented in close
coordination with other development partners in line with the comparative advantage and
core competencies of each such partner. Specifically, the EFSSIP was to be implemented by
the FAO per the framework established by the Global Food Crisis Response Program
(GFCRP), and the TFFCR. EFSSIP was approved on June 13, 2008 and became effective on
September 17, 2008.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5.      The PDO was to increase domestic food production and reduce the loss of livestock
to help at least 28,000 poorest households in a timely manner to reduce the negative impact
of high and volatile food prices.

6.      The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were: 3 (i) Grain harvested from packages;
(ii) Spring reproductive rate from livestock supported under program. The target values for
the KPIs to be achieved by June 30, 2009 were: (i) between 25,000 to 40,000 (baseline zero);
and (ii) 80% (baseline of 65%).

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

7.      EFSSIP, which was conceived as an emergency measure, was successfully
implemented by FAO and the US$5 million was fully disbursed in March 2009. While it
improved the food security situation for 25% of the poorest rural households, other structural
problems in agriculture (low yields due to lack of quality seeds and fertilizer) still affected
most households’ food security status and their coping strategies. To increase food
production and diversification in the short to medium-term, the project was restructured
(Level 1) on March 3, 2010 with additional financing of US$6.25 million from the Russia
Food Price Crisis Rapid Response Trust Fund (Russia FPCR TF). This enabled to scale up
the original grant and add new activities to accomplish a broader PDO. On December 21,
2010, EFSSIP was restructured again (Level 2) to add a new activity to Component E, to set
up a Revolving Fund for fertilizer imports. The proposed changes were requested by the
government to deal with the situation created by the collapse of the fertilizer supply chain.
This chain, which had already been very weak, could not cope with the vast logistical
problems stemming from the situation in neighboring countries. In order to revive and
stabilize fertilizer supply networks, especially for non-cotton fertilizer supply, the
government wanted to establish an alternative chain of fertilizer provision through a network


3
    Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Emergency Project Paper, May 27, 2008.
                                                 2
of private dealers. Specifically, the government sought to set up a revolving fund to be used
to import fertilizers for non-cotton crops by the project’s PMU to be channeled through
merchants. This activity was also to increase the likelihood of achieving part (iii) of the
revised PDO.

8.      The revised PDO was to: (i) increase domestic food production and reduce livestock
losses to help at least 55,000 poorest households; (ii) improve the ability of poor households
to deal with seed shortages due to poor crops; and (iii) promote private commercial farming
in order to increase food production and diversification.

9.      The revised KPIs were: (i) increase in cereal production by at least 35,000 tons for
55,000 food insecure rural households; (ii) reduce livestock losses as reflected in declined
mortality rates among livestock held by 7,000 beneficiary households; (iii) new functioning
community production groups; (iv) increase in share of non-cotton agriculture in the total
value of agriculture sector output; (v) food production increased by at least 10% during the
project life.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The project targeted the highly food insecure regions and was expected to improve
the food security situation of about 25% of the poorest rural households in the Khatlon region
and in Rasht Valley. EFSSIP used a number of selection criteria to identify the most
vulnerable groups that were pronounced as “acutely food insecure” by the joint
UNICEF/WFP/FAO assessment in early 2008. On the basis of the 2007 Tajikistan Living
Standards Survey, which identified the household characteristics that were strongly
correlated with rural poverty, EFSSIP focused on the following for beneficiary selection:
female-headed households with three or more children under the age of five; smaller land
holdings; and lower livestock ownership. To increase food production and diversification in
the short to medium term, the additional financing aimed to help these households to deal
with seed shortages and promote private commercial farming.

1.5 Original Components

11.     Component A: Support for Agricultural Inputs (US$ 2.7m) aimed to provide
agricultural inputs in Tajikistan. The support included standard packages composed of high
quality seed for winter wheat and fertilizer to be distributed by October in time for the winter
planting season. The higher yielding wheat varieties were to help farmers to take advantage
of fall rains in raising a successful winter crop. As demonstrated by the similar (drought)
emergency package supplied in 2001, this was also expected to help boost the country’s
wheat yields and improve food security in the medium term. Estimates suggested that a
package valued at US$80 per household would be sufficient to support winter wheat
production of 28,000 families.

12.     Component B: Improvement of Livestock Health and Husbandry (US$ 1.8m)
was also to support the FAO program and aimed to improve livestock health and husbandry.
The funding was to support the purchase of a package of veterinary services that would
ensure that minimal vaccination and treatment of the most critical diseases and pests (worms)
                                               3
and the purchase of feed (mainly concentrates). It was estimated that a package valued at
about US$250 per household would suffice to cover livestock of some 7,000 families.

13.     Component C: Project Management (US$ 500,000) was to cover project
management costs incurred by FAO, and also cover expenses such as program audit, the
hiring of additional specialists, as well as training and monitoring and evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components

14.     To achieve the further objectives, additional financing was allocated for the existing
project Component A: Support for Agricultural Inputs, and to Component C: Project
Management, and to two new components included in the EFSSIP for “Community
Production Groups” and “Ago-Input Supply Market Development”. Managing these
additional activities also required additional financing for the PMU. There were no changes
to Component B - Improvement of Livestock Health and Husbandry of the original EFSSIP
design, except for modest reallocation of project savings from this component to Component
A.

15.    Component A: Support for Agriculture Inputs (originally US$ 2.7m). An
additional US$1.65m (for a total of US$ 5.15m including reallocation of US$800,000 of
uncommitted funds from Component B) was included to finance imports of high quality
winter wheat seeds and fertilizer in time for autumn 2009 plantings in the severely food
insecure areas identified by WFP Food Security Monitoring System. A package valued at
about US$60 per household was considered sufficient to support another 27,000 families.

16.     Component B: Improvement of Livestock Health and Husbandry (originally
US$ l.8m). No additional financing was allocated to Component B. This component was
modified to provide fodder (alfalfa) seed and fertilizer for beneficiary households due to
difficulties in securing veterinary supplies and animal feed. The cost savings of about
US$800,000 from these changes and a fall in seed and fertilizer prices were reallocated to
Component A.

17.   Component C: FAO Project Management (originally US$0.5m). An additional
US$ 165,000 was allocated for project management costs incurred by FAO.

18.    Component D - Community Production Groups (CPGs) (US$ 3.235 million).
This new component was to support the formation and functioning of groups of poor rural
households at the community level to help them improve their food security and nutrition and
simultaneously diversify their production away from the predominant, but unprofitable
cotton crop. This program was to be implemented with the involvement of local grassroots
NGOs, who would help to identify eligible group members, assist in the formation of the
groups, provide basic training, and help to monitor program implementation and impact.

19.    Component E - Agro-Input Supply Market Development (US$0.9m) aimed to
develop a private network of agro-input dealers to supply Tajik farmers with quality inputs
and technical knowledge that would increase farm incomes and reverse the low-input, low-
output spiral. This component was to finance the following activities: (i) assess the needs of
                                              4
farmers and the agro-input demand and supply situation; (ii) identify potential agro-input
dealers and conduct training; (iii) organize field demonstrations with improved technologies;
(iv) produce technical brochures and conduct public outreach to increase production and
stimulate farmer demand for inputs; and (v) help dealers to find supplies and credit, expand
business, and provide extension services.

20.    Component F - PMU Project Management (US$0.3 million) was to finance
coordination of the new activities and the fiduciary functions of the Project Management
Unit (PMU).

1.7 Other significant changes

21.     The PMU for the Cotton Sector Recovery Project (CSRP) was to coordinate
implementation of Components D, E and F, while the FAO was to continue implementing
Components A, B and C, given the satisfactory implementation arrangements under the
original project design. The PMU was a specialized unit created to implement the CSRP and
a similar Asian Development Bank (ADB) project and had been rated satisfactory in
attaining capacity in financial management, procurement and in implementing both projects.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     EFSSIP was conceived as an emergency operation and it was a timely and
rational response to a significant increase in household food insecurity during 2007-08.
The impact assessment that the UN and a number of NGOs had carried out after the winter of
2007/08 had shown that there was a sharp increase in poverty that was potentially
compounded by further crop failure and livestock loss that could lead to a sharpening of the
food crisis in the country. The Bank designed the project in partnership with FAO, and
worked together with FAO to respond quickly to the crisis and to the client’s plea for
assistance.

23.    Government ownership was high. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Finance were actively involved during final negotiations on project design.

24.    The project’s design took into consideration lessons of previous operations, and
focused on a simple design that was easy to implement. EFSSIP’s design was largely
based on a similar earlier intervention under the Farm Privatization Support Project (FPSP).
An IEG review of FPSP had revealed that seed and fertilizer imports had likely played a
considerable role in increasing wheat production in Tajikistan. That intervention had focused
on providing agricultural inputs without significant interventions in reforming the institutions
involved with the research related to, and the production of seed. Lessons that EFSSIP took
into consideration included: the fact that previous support for seed research from SIDA had
focused mostly on cotton seed production, and research in food seed had been largely
abandoned; that in the policy environment that existed at the time, significant institutional
reforms would be difficult or impossible; and that the Bank already had an ongoing
investment and sector adjustment program that was tackling legal and regulatory issues.
                                               5
Based on the above experiences and the realities related to the food price crisis, the design
demanded simplicity and ease of implementation for timely delivery of the seed material and
veterinary services to the poor.

25.     EFSSIP’s design was changed during the final negotiations, limiting the time for
implementation; however, cost savings created by these changes enhanced the project’s
impact. The government requested changes to project design and implementation in July-
August 2008. These included a request to: have local government authorities manage the
selection of beneficiaries and the distribution of project support rather than international
NGOs, where local government authorities were to cover the relevant costs; and to use local
NGOs to monitor beneficiary selection rather than international NGOs. The resultant cost
savings could then be used to increase the number of beneficiaries. Due to difficulties in
securing veterinary supplies and animal feed for Component B, it was also decided to change
this component to the provision of alfalfa seed and fertilizer for beneficiary households.
These changes affected some aspects of implementation (discussed in Section 2.2); however,
the resultant cost savings, together with a fall in the seed and fertilizer prices allowed
Component A to be scaled up from 21,000 to 71,000 households. Further cost savings during
implementation also allowed the project to provide maize seed and fertilizer to another
10,000 beneficiaries by June 2009.

26.     The decision to replace concentrate feed with fodder seeds was taken due to the
problems experienced by a previous FAO project (OSRO/TAJ/804/SWI) in procuring quality
concentrate in the required quantities. The decision was appropriate in view of the high risk
for late delivery and possible quality problems related to transporting the feed over long
distances (quality feed was not available in the country in sufficient amounts and would have
needed to be imported). The distribution of fodder seed for perennial fodder crops was
considered far more sustainable and had expected positive longer-term impacts with regard to
the feed and quality seed base.

27.    In line with its simple design, EFSSIP had a straightforward and clear results
and monitoring framework, with outcome indicators that were well linked to the PDO.
The project also took care in specifying the criteria for targeting the poorest households
based on the 2007 Tajikistan Living Standards Survey, as described in Section 1.4.

2.2 Implementation

28.     Close coordination with national government was a feature of project
implementation and contributed to successful outcomes. The Deputy Minister of
Agriculture was appointed as the project’s counterpart and project staff met with him or his
advisers on a weekly basis. Both parties point to a very positive and constructive working
relationship, with the Ministry of Agriculture’s support proving critical on issues such as
custom clearance, testing of seed and fertilizer and liaison with Oblast governments
(Preliminary Project Evaluation, July 2009).

29.     Development partners worked closely to successfully design and implement
EFSSIP. Information from preliminary assessments and pilot work by various donors on the
situation in Tajikistan helped to inform project design as mentioned above. Implementation
                                             6
mechanisms were also kept simple, and donors, especially the Bank and the FAO,
coordinated their activities well to effectively implement EFSSIP.

30.     The changes at negotiations triggered subsequent delays and posed a risk to
rapid implementation of Component A, which was critical for project success; however,
project management took actions to mitigate this risk, and applied the experience
gained to improve implementation of Component B. The planting of wheat seed by mid-
November was vital for the success of Component A. Due to delays in procurement, some
jamoats were unable to distribute the seed until late November or early December. As a result,
only about 83% of the households planted the seeds on time, and others kept the seeds for the
following season (see Achievement of Outcomes in Section 3.2). FAO took steps to mitigate
this risk by initiating the procurement process in July during negotiations, by seeking
expressions of interest for seed and fertilizer. The Bank and FAO staff also accelerated the
process by initiating tenders and guiding the process of beneficiary selection during
September 2008. The project also made a concerted effort to meet with local officials from
all 116 jamoats in Khatlon during the early stages of implementation to outline jamoat
responsibilities in implementing EFSSIP. However, the project overestimated the capacity
and willingness of local government officials to assume responsibility for beneficiary
selection and distribution, and underestimated the level of support needed by local
government. The experience gained in distributing packages during the project’s first four
months was reviewed by project management, local government and the NGO in charge
(Shahrvand) by the end of January 2009 and used to improve the efficiency of distribution
for Component B. A more structured approach to working with jamoats was adopted, with
roundtable discussions involving jamoat officials, the local NGO and project staff; and
increased contact during implementation. Although this was made easier because there were
fewer districts and beneficiaries, Component B nevertheless encountered little problem as a
result of improved support to jamoat officials.        Component A also conducted limited
publicity due to the short time period left between distribution of packages and planting. A
more comprehensive advertising campaign was launched for Component B, which included
instructions on the use of chemically-treated seeds and describing the project’s objectives to
the beneficiaries. This resulted in much higher awareness and understanding of the project
among the beneficiaries who indicated that it helped to contribute to better outcomes
(Preliminary Evaluation, 2009).

31.    The Bank conducted two preliminary evaluations in 2009 during
implementation to assess and improve the performance of EFSSIP, to inform the design
of the follow-on project that was under preparation, and to identify the lessons for
future TFFCR-funded projects. By May 2009, field work was conducted by an
independent consultant who met with all stakeholders, from donors and local government to
NGOs and project beneficiaries.

32.     EFSSIP was successfully restructured. The project underwent restructuring, first to
include Additional Financing of US$6.25m to increase food production and diversification
and scale up activities, and subsequently to include an activity (the Revolving Fund for
Fertilizer) to promote private commercial farming and increase the likelihood of achieving
part of the revised PDO. Both restructurings were timely and well done.

                                              7
33.     There were delays in implementing Component E due mainly to the seasonal
nature of the envisaged activities, the assessment of needs and the time required to
refine/adjust the proposed mechanism of setting the network of agro-dealers.
Unexpected delays in hiring local NGOs and the procurement/distribution of fertilizer
on time also contributed to this delay. In March 2012, a locally-based NGO was contracted
to implement the activities under Component E. Following a preliminary assessment of needs
of farmers and agro-input demand and supply, 12 agro-dealers were selected for training, and
the NGO established 12 plots to demonstrate the value of using fertilizer. A total of 1,860
tons of fertilizer was imported at a cost of about US$ 1.33 million and distributed to the
dealers. However, the local suppliers received this fertilizer in July, after the main spring
season due to procurement and supply delays. As a result, the demand was weak; however, it
seems to have picked up by project closing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.     The M&E system was well-designed, and included a simple Results Framework with
relevant indicators to capture the project’s activities under each component. The reporting
formats for each component and sub-component were based on the annual performance
targets and monitoring indicators as shown in Annex 2 of the PAD and Annex 3 of the
Restructuring Paper. The project conducted two Preliminary Evaluations in 2009 and the
FAO also completed a Completion Report in July 2009. These were utilized to both track
progress and problems and served as a useful tool in guiding the implementation of
Component B under the Additional Financing (see Section 2.2).

35.      The PMU provided regular monitoring of project implementation. The project’s Final
Impact Evaluation of the CPG component and the Agro-Input Supply Market Development
component were well done, and should serve as a baseline for any continued project
activities under the proposed new project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.     The original project was rated Environmental Category ‘B’ as it was expected to have
limited impact on the environment and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The
activities under the Additional Financing did not require a modification of the Environmental
Category. The borrower, however, updated the EMP to include safeguard issues for the new
project activities. The project did not finance the purchase of pesticides; however, OP 4.09
was triggered as increased availability and use of pesticides were anticipated as an indirect
impact of project activities that support increased productivity, the introduction of new crops
by CPGs, and the expansion of private agro-input supply network. Accordingly, the revised
EMP contained steps to mitigate identified potential effects.

37.     The project maintained good progress in implementing the requirements stipulated in
the revised EMP. The PMU provided selected NGOs with guiding materials concerning
treated seeds as well as mineral fertilizer storage, transportation and handling, and the
training program implemented through the project extension activities under the Components
A, D and E addressed environmental issues.

                                              8
38.     Financial Management (FM). Under the GFCRP program’s framework, the FAO’s
procurement and FM procedures were applicable and FAO was responsible for the FM and
procurement procedures activities under the original project. After the Additional Financing
the project maintained the original disbursement arrangements for Components A and C
under implementation under FAO, while the CSRP PMU had FM responsibilities for
implementation of activities under Components D, E and F. The FM was moderately
satisfactory through most of the project, although in 2011 there were significant delays in the
submission of the audit reports as the selection of an auditor became the responsibility of the
State Committee on Investment. These delays affected the entire Tajikistan portfolio.

39.     Procurement. Procurement performance was maintained as satisfactory as it
progressed as planned throughout implementation. The PMU had already accumulated
significant procurement experience with procurement under previous IDA projects (i.e.
CSRP) and had experienced procurement specialists. There were some minor delays during
end-2011 in the evaluation process due to newly introduced centralized procedures for public
bid openings by the State Committee on Investments and State Property Management and the
need to get its’ no objection to evaluation reports.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.      Currently, a number of different projects and development partners are concentrating
their efforts on Khatlon oblast to help stimulate private investments through private sector
development. As agriculture is seen as one of the potential areas for commercialization, the
institutional framework established under EFSSIP can be replicated and modified to attract
private sector investments to develop the agri-inputs value chain. Community Seed Funds are
also seen as farmers associations that can be directed to improve access of farmers to
different production factors, in particular to inputs and fertilizers.

41.     The Bank has a new Agriculture Commercialization Project under preparation that
will aim to increase commercialization of small and medium-sized farms and agro-processors
in selected areas of Tajikistan, by improving the performance of selected value chains and
providing financial services to project beneficiaries. The proposed project will also provide
support to the institutional framework established under EFSSIP in Khatlon oblast, in
particular to Community Production Groups and Community Seed Funds through: (i)
provision of extension services and technological advice; (ii) training to increase
commercialization potential; and (iii) building links and partnerships between farmers and
aggregators in the selected value chains. The project will also support activities to make
market and price information more accessible to farmers.

42.     The Bank and IFC will also look into the possibilities of continuing to work with
agri-input supply dealers under the follow-on project to help the established structure to
become commercially feasible and sustainable. Support to agri-input dealers is envisaged in
the form of trainings, access to financial credit resources, and matching grants to those who
meet certain criteria of partnership in the selected value chains.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

                                              9
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43.     EFSSIP’s objectives are relevant to the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2010–
13 that was recently extended to 2014, with a shift in focus from crisis mitigation to the
structural reforms needed for sustainable growth and development. One of the revised
objectives in the CPS is to stimulate private investment and private sector development”
through measures to further increase productivity in agriculture. While EFSSIP helped to
improve food security for about 25% of the poorest rural households, low yields and lack of
quality seeds and fertilizer remain constraints to overall agricultural growth. Tajikistan’s
market for seed is small, both in absolute terms and relative to total seed requirements. By
procuring locally produced seed, the project has provided an important stimulus for domestic
seed producers.

44.     ESSIP’s key elements of design and implementation reflect proper diagnosis of a
development priority that remains relevant. For example, building capacity in local
authorities and local NGOs to carry out project activities, and the creation of CPGs to help
them improve their food security and simultaneously diversity their production, executed
with grassroots NGOs are very pertinent. The Bank’s assistance was responsive to changing
needs and to Tajikistan’s medium-term development as demonstrated in the project’s
restructuring, to include activities such as CPGs and agro-input supply market development.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives 4

45.     This section presents the linkages through which the EFSSIP interventions and
outputs (listed in Annex 2) resulted in successful final outcomes between 2008 and 2013. 5
EFSSIP effectively disbursed the original US$5 million by March 29, 2009, and was
restructured to include Additional Financing. There were no major changes to the direction of
the original project other than to substantially increase the targeted number of poor
households (from 28,000 to 55,000) and to add two new areas under the revised PDO. Tables
1 and 2 present the project’s original and revised PDO indicators. The ICR looks briefly at
the achievement of the original PDO and focuses more on the outcomes under the revised
PDO and the overall project.

46.      EFSSIP’s main objective under the original PDO and part (i) of the revised PDO
was to increase domestic food production and reduce livestock losses in order to mitigate
the negative impact of high and volatile food prices. The project realized this by providing
wheat and fodder crop production inputs to the most vulnerable households to improve their
immediate food security, enhance their livelihoods and offset production losses. Project
activities under the two components A and B were quite interrelated, and the beneficiary
households were selected as described in Section 1.4.


4
  See Annex 2 for Outputs by Components and achievements under the Component indicators.
5
  The ICR uses data on project performance prior to the first restructuring (Additional Financing)
from two key reports: (i) the FAO’s Project Completion Report of July 31, 2009; and the Tajikistan
EFSSIP Preliminary Project Evaluation, June 8, 2009. After the new components were added, the
ICR uses data from the Impact Evaluation of EFSSIP, Dushanbe, 2013; and from the Final Report on
EFSSIP’s Implementation of the Agro-Inputs Support Market Development Program, Dushanbe 2013.
                                               10
47.     EFSSIP delivered standard packages to beneficiaries that consisted of 17.5 kg of high
quality wheat seed and 30 kg of urea fertilizer, sufficient to plant 0.1 hectare per household.
The project purchased 1,265 tons of wheat seed (Konya 2002, Starshina, Krasnodar 99,
Yasaul and Tanya varieties), which were suitable for the agro-ecological conditions in
Khatlon, and 2,102 tons of urea fertilizer. 6 The wheat seed provided by the project
represented about 2.8 percent of all wheat seed planted in the autumn of 2008 (255,000
hectares) and 9.5 percent of seed planted on ‘presidential plots’.

48.    Conservative costing at the time of project design and favorable prices due to a
competitive international tendering process, allowed the project to increase the target number
of households under Component A to 70,000. Additional cost savings during implementation
allowed the project to plan to provide an additional 10,000 households with input packages
with 3 kg of hybrid maize seed and fertilizer in June 2009. In total, the revised number of
planned beneficiaries to receive assistance, including the 7,000 households targeted to
receive livestock packages was 87,000 households.

Achievement of Outputs and Outcomes:

49.     Inputs were delivered to the jamoats in time without major compromise in input
quality, and considerable costs saving were obtained through the use of local suppliers.
Given the tight implementation timeframe, this was a significant achievement. Priority was
given to districts at higher altitude with difficult road access and where winter sets in early
(Baljuvon, Muminobad, Termuralik, Dangara, Shurobad and Khovalin).

      •   In all, EFSSIP delivered input packages to jamoats for distribution to nearly 89,000
          households. That is: (i) wheat seeds and fertilizer for 71,767 households from 1,385
          villages in 119 jamoats (20 districts) of Khatlon Province under Component A; and
          (ii) fodder seeds and fertilizer for 7,222 households, and hybrid maize seeds and
          fertilizers for 10,000 households under Component B.
      •   At the time of post-distribution monitoring in December 2008, 97% of the
          beneficiaries (about 69,614) had received their input package, of which 83% (57,780)
          planted the seeds. The delivery to the remaining 3% was still underway during the
          monitoring. As a result of the late delivery of inputs for winter planting in fall 2008,
          the remaining 17% of households that did not plant seeds had stored the inputs for use
          in the forthcoming planting season.
      •   FAO estimates that approximately 6,000 hectares were sown in November 2008 with
          improved wheat seed, representing some 83 percent of the seeds provided.
      •   On average, beneficiaries each produced 300 kg of wheat on 0.1 hectare, with a low
          of 1.7 tons per hectare in Baljuvon District and a high of 4.36 tons per hectare in
          Bokhtar District. This was considered sufficient to cover household needs (six
          persons) for approximately three months.
      •   In order to make best use of the inputs provided and to improve the agricultural skills
          of farmers, the project developed and printed grassroots extension leaflets/technical


6
    Ton refers to a metric ton (MT). 1000 kg = 1 ton.
                                                   11
       messages (73,000 copies) in Tajik language, on topics such as sustainable wheat
       growing practices, seed collection and storage, fertilizer application, post-harvest
       losses and processing. These leaflets were developed in close collaboration with
       national agricultural research institutes and the Ministry of Agriculture.
   •   As per post-distribution monitoring, some 93 percent of households receiving input
       packages were within the defined selection criteria.

50.     The wheat production in 2009 through the seeds distributed was estimated at 18,000
tons, with an overall value of US$ 4.5 million at harvest time (July 2009). This amounted to
about 2.5% of the national wheat production in Tajikistan in 2009. The seeds stored for the
next planting season were expected to generate an additional 3,000 tons in 2010, with a value
of some US$ 750,000 (at 2009 prices). These estimates were based on a wheat price at
harvesting time (July 2009) of TJS 1.1 per kg (USD 0.25) (FAO Completion Report, July 31,
2009). In addition, the 10,000 households who received the hybrid maize planted 1,000
hectares with expected outcomes of 6-8 tons per hectare (based on 2008 yields).

Table 1. Original PDO Indicators, Target Values and Achievements

                                          Target Values
   PDO Indicators        Baseline       YR 1          YR 2             Achievements
                                    (10/30/2008)   (6/30/2009)
                                                                  27,000 – 29,000 tons of
                                                     Between
1. Grain harvested                                                grain (wheat and maize)
                             0            0          25,000 to
from packages                                                     harvested from project
                                                    40,000 tons
                                                                  delivered packages.
2. Spring reproductive
rate from livestock
                           65%                         80%        Not measured.
supported under
program
Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Component A: Support for Agricultural Inputs
                                                                  About 7,700 in 2008
                                                                  (wheat) and another
1. Number of hectares                 At least                    1,000 (maize) and 700
sown with improved           0         7,500                      (lucern seed) in 2009
seed (cumulative)                     hectares                    under the extension of
                                                                  Component B—see
                                                                  below.
Component B: Improvement of Livestock Health and Husbandry
1. Number of
beneficiary families               7,000
                        0                                 7,222 households
benefiting from                 households
livestock package


                                              12
51.     Fodder distribution. The immediate objective of Component B was to improve the
capacity for fodder production among food-insecure rural households. The project targeted
7,000 food insecure households in 14 jamoats (four districts) of Rasht Valley. The target was
to provide a standardized package of 1.8 kg of fodder seed (Lucerne) and 40 kg of fertilizers,
sufficient to cultivate 0.1 hectare per household, allowing for 2-3 cuts per year with an
estimated production of 4 tons of dry mass. The fodder produced on individual household
plots was considered to be sufficient to cover the nutritional intake of three small ruminants
or one large ruminant for a period of 11 months.

52.     In mid-April 2009, fodder seeds and fertilizers were delivered to jamoat warehouses,
for onward distribution to 7,222 beneficiary households from 251 villages in 15 jamoats of
four districts (Nurobod, Roghun, Tavildara and Darvoz) and one district in Khatlon. Full
fodder production packages reached beneficiaries by the end of April, in time for the
agricultural season. The screening and verification of the beneficiary list revealed that 96%
of the project’s beneficiaries met the selection criteria. As per post-distribution monitoring,
almost 99% of the selected beneficiaries received their input package (7,150 households).
About 700 hectares were planted with lucerne seed.

53.     In addition, 1,000 hectares were planted with hybrid maize seed (Component B
extension), generating an expected output of 6-8 tons of maize per hectare (based on 2008
yields) and/or 30-35 tons of dry mass per hectare for animal feeding purposes.

54.      All households received grassroots technical messages on fodder seed planting,
fertilizer application and harvesting practices (10,000 copies printed). Further, two technical
instructions on environmental issues were distributed (8,000 copies of each). As per post-
distribution monitoring for lucerne seed, 7 005 households of the beneficiary list were
eligible (97 percent).

55.    The project enabled beneficiaries to improve their fodder production capacities and
the nutritional intake of their animals, which enhanced livestock productivity and health.
Farming households were also able to diversify agricultural production, with positive and
sustainable impacts on the seed and animal feed base.

56.     Given the decision not to carry out the vaccination program and provide animal feed,
with hindsight one could say that the project should have revised the indicator under
Component B (increase the spring reproductive rate from livestock supported under program
from 65% to 80%). The present indicator seems optimistic based on only fodder production
and without a vaccination program. Official statistics that look at the national average and the
average for Khatlon suggest that the number of offspring per 100 female breed (heads) did
not change as a result of project interventions between 2008 and 2009 for large or small
ruminants (Agricultural Yearbook, 2013); however, this is only for agricultural entities and
not for the general population who also keep animals. The only information available, also
for agricultural entities, is that calves born in Khatlon oblast increased from 13,387 in 2008
to 13,794 in 2012, and small sheep and goats born increased from 151,728 in 2008 to
157,398 in 2012.



                                              13
Table 2: Performance against PDO Indicators after Restructuring

     PDO Outcome Indicators                            Target                  Achievements
                                                                         27,000-29,000 tons under
                                                                         original project and
                                                                         another 22,758 under the
                                                                         Additional Financing
Increase in cereal production by at      35,000 tons for 55,000
                                                                         (Table 3) to total about
least 35,000 tons for 55,000 food        households
                                                                         51,000 tons.
insecure rural households
                                                                         The number of
                                                                         households is 93,000
                                                                         including 25,000
                                                                         households under the
                                                                         CPGs.
                                                                         Mortality of heads in
                                                                         Khatlon:
Reduce livestock losses as reflected
                                                                         large ruminants: 106
in declined mortality rates among        Baseline: 35% losses to
                                                                         (2008); 30 (2012)
livestock held by 7,000 beneficiary      be reduced to 20%
                                                                         Small ruminants: 2384
households                               losses
                                                                         (2008); 83 (2012).
                                                                         No percentages are
                                                                         available
New functioning community                Baseline: zero; Target          In total 1,480 CPGs were
production groups (CPGs)                 1,095;                          established.
Increase in share of non-cotton
                                         Baseline: 50% increase          see note below and Table
agriculture in the total value of
                                         to 60%                          4
agriculture sector output
                                         Baseline: zero; increase
                                         by 10% (measured by a
                                         weighted index of
Food production increased by at
                                         growth in 5 major food          see Table 5
least 10% during the project life
                                         commodities: grains,
                                         potatoes, vegetables,
                                         milk and beef.)

Table 3. Total Cereal Production, 2010-2012 and estimates for 2013

     Cereal                                             Area sown (ha)         2013 forecasted
                     2011 (t/ha)    2012 (t/ha)
  Production                                                (2012)                  (t/ha)
Wheat                   1361           5528                  2018                   8597
Maize                    904           1428                   356                   1784
Barley                    0            1403                   525                   1754
     Total              2265           8359                  2899                  12134

                                                  14
57.      PDO Indicator: Increase in share of non-cotton agriculture in the total value of
agriculture sector output. The ICR looks at the total production of non-cotton agriculture, as
it is misleading to look at cotton due to the cotton price decline (Table 4).

Table 4. Value of Cotton production in Agricultural GDP, 2011, 2012

                                                      2011               2012
      Agricultural GDP (ml. TJS)                      7168               8433
      Cotton production (‘000 tons)                    417                418
      Cost per ton of cotton (US$)                    2729               1555
      Value of Cotton production (ml. TJS)            5115               2925
      Share of cotton value in Ag. GDP                71%                35%

Table 5: Non-cotton Agricultural Production 2008-2012

                                                                                  Increase
  Agriculture
                     2008         2009       2010         2011        2012      compared to
commodity (tons)
                                                                                    2008
Meat                  129791     134350      143213      150764      161999         24%
Milk                  601011     629708      660763      695892      778295         29%
Grain                 942894    1294522     1261059     1098182     1232591         30%
Wheat                 659096     938435      857545      726880      812588         23%
Maize                 136428     142515      151061      154881      174857         28%
Potatoes              679774     690853      760139      863069      991044         45%
Vegetables            908225    1046859     1142624     1242026     1342352         48%

58.    In addition to providing seeds and fertilizer to increase cereal and livestock
production, EFSSIP introduced complementary activities under the revised PDO, to
improve the ability of poor households to deal with seed shortages due to the failure of
crops. The project intended to realize this by supporting the formation and functioning of
groups of poor households at community level (CPGs) under Component D, to diversity their
production and to improve their food security.

59.     Key outputs under this component are detailed in Annex 2. The project established
all targeted 1,095 CPGs in the 24 districts of Khatlon Region including 400 livestock groups.
In addition, 523 new CPGs were established using the revolving seed/livestock funds. 62
wheat production groups were established by the PMU in 2013. There are an estimated total
of 25,012 beneficiaries of the CPGs. Beneficiaries were selected from a list of vulnerable
households available in each jamoat, and after consultation with NGOs and jamoat leadership,
and based on criteria in the Operational Manual. Criteria include family income less than
140 Somoni per month and a maximum of two cows.

60.    The CPGs are operating effectively. For all crop CPGs, 100% of the required amount
of seed has been repaid, equivalent to 125% of the initially provided amount for grain and
some forage crops and 115% for potatoes. For some crops, such as vegetables, maize and
                                            15
some forage crops, repayment was made following sale of the product and the cash used to
purchase new seed. There are 15,975 beneficiaries in the crop CPGs. A total of 5,250 ha
have been planted from fall 2010 to date including 3,369 ha planted in the fall 2011 and
spring 2012 using seed produced or purchased through the revolving funds. Around 760 t of
fertilizer was also provided for wheat, maize, flax, and forage crops, as well as jars and lids
for preserving vegetables and berries, and some greenhouse material for vegetable groups. In
addition, 24 seed cleaners with a capacity of around 10 t per day and seed treatment
machines were provided and suitable storage facilities obtained for harvested crops and seed.
Yields achieved by the CPGs have been generally higher than the national averages; for
example, in 2012, wheat averaged 4.7 t /ha compared with the regional average of 2.8 t/ha;
maize yielded 5.0 t/ha compared with 3.9 t/ha; and potatoes 26.2 t/ha compared with 17.8
t/ha. It is anticipated that for the 2012/13 season, possibly 170 new groups will be formed
and will start activities.

61.     The average additional net income per CPG beneficiary was around TJS 565 in 2011
for both crop and livestock groups and TJS 2,112 from the crop groups only in 2012. The
vaccination program covering some 2.98 million poultry is expected to be completed in
Khatlon and Sughd by the end of the year. However, the IPM program was cancelled due to
delays in procuring the consultancy to implement the activity, which left insufficient time to
carry out the activity before project closing.

62.     Overall, the role of the NGOs has been an essential element in the successful
implementation of this component. At present, 22 local NGOs support the program,
including a national coordinating NGO; 15 local NGOs covering the 24 districts responsible
for group mobilization and support, including agronomic support; and 6 NGOs providing
training of groups. The NGO performance has been quite strong, with all organizing the CPG
mobilization and support, seed and input distribution, training, seed cleaning and treatment,
storage and egg incubation activities satisfactorily. At present, the NGOs are managing the
seed cleaner, seed treatment machine, and egg incubator in their district(s). NGOs are also
closely working with the CSFs during the harvesting period to ensure implementation of the
repayment mechanism.

63.     2,300 members of CPGs were interviewed during the Impact Evaluation Survey.
Most of the beneficiaries interviewed received information about EFSSIP from local NGOs
(1,304) and local authorities (513). 2091 of the participants attended training on agricultural
crops etc. The IES, which also looked at education levels of the participants, conclude that
the relatively high literacy of the beneficiaries can assure the sustainability of project results.
Of the 2,091 who participated in training, 96.6% indicated that they apply the knowledge and
skills gained in their agricultural activities. Most of the beneficiaries have been users of the
CPGs for over 2 years.

64.     Under the revised PDO part (iii), EFSSIP attempted to develop a private network of
agro-input dealers to supply farmers in the Khatlon oblast with quality inputs and
technical knowledge that would increase food production and product diversification
through the promotion of private commercial agriculture. As detailed in Annex 2, within
this framework, EFSSIP has assessed the needs of farmers and the agro-input demand and
supply situation; identified potential agro-input dealers and their training needs, organized
                                                16
field demonstrations using advanced technologies; prepared technical brochures and
conducted public outreach to stimulate farmer demand for agro-inputs, and assisted dealers to
find supplies and credit, expand business and provide extension services for the
dissemination of knowledge and technologies.

65.     The project has made substantial progress after some delays. Under the agro-input
supply market development activity, fertilizer (1,860 t) was distributed to 12 contracted agro-
dealers in July and sales are now underway. The fertilizer distribution has been coupled with
an awareness campaign, workshops and training, and establishment of 12 plots to
demonstrate the value of using fertilizer under a contract with an NGO responsible for
implementation.

66.    The outputs are detailed in the Final Report on Implementation of the Agro-Inputs
Supply Market Development Report, 2013, and presented in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency

67.     EFSSIP carried out an initial ex-ante economic analysis of the project at appraisal in
2008. It was revised at the project restructuring in 2009 to reflect the changes and additions
to project design. The ex-ante analysis determined the expected benefits to derive from the
project’s components and activities; however it did not include a cost-benefit analysis and
calculation of the project economic return. The ICR’s ex-post analysis compares the actual
project results and performance with the baseline situation applying the same analytical
approaches and methods that were used at appraisal,

68.     Although this project is an emergency operation, it had some activities that produced
benefits that continue deriving for several years. In addition, the project had two actual
phases: the first phase started in 2008 and the second started two years later – after the
restructuring in 2010. Therefore a 10-year period of analysis is used to account for the long-
term impacts of the project interventions (from 2009 to 2018). The scenario presented in the
economic analysis is conservative. The analysis presents the balance of costs and benefits of
the project and it is based on the actual data and results of the project.

69.    The cost savings of US$800,000 under Component B were reallocated to Component
A and allowed the project to reach a much larger number of beneficiaries than originally
planned. Given the above mentioned benefit and cost streams, the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) of the project is estimated at 15.2%, which can be considered as acceptable given the
emergency character of the project. The Net Present Value (NPV) of the Project’s net benefit
stream, discounted at 10%, is positive at US$ 1.3 million. The summary of the project
economic analysis is presented in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

70.    EFSSIP was relevant at the time of appraisal and its’ design and implementation
remains relevant today. The components of the original project and those under the
                                              17
Additional Financing were clearly linked to the PDO. As presented in Section 3.2, the
achievement of the PDO was satisfactory, with the project exceeding many of the outcome
targets. At the time of the food and financial crisis, EFSSIP through the CPGs provided an
important safety net for the poorest farmers/households and opened a new avenue to access
improved varieties of crops and small livestock and much needed complementary inputs, i.e.
fertilizer. This enabled families to raise productivity and subsequently provided additional
income through sales of marketed surplus. The Final Impact Evaluation (FIE), which
interviewed 2,300 members of CPGs (with a total number of their family members estimated
at 19,041) revealed that beneficiaries were selected properly, that the majority of
beneficiaries are satisfied with the CPG activities, and most importantly, that beneficiaries
believe that under the CPG framework and their activities, they have accrued profits, and
increased their income and financial situation. Beneficiaries also prefer to now continue
working under the CPGs. The Project’s Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is estimated at
15.2%, which is a good result given the emergency character of the project. NPV is also
positive at US$ 1.3 million. The Project’s rating for the achievement of the PDO and Overall
Implementation Progress was downgraded from ‘S’ to ‘MS’ in the final ISR dated May 17,
2013 due to the delay in setting up the fertilizer networks and the associated uncertainty.
However, at the time of the ICR, both these ratings are considered to be satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

71.     In the FIE, 93.1% of the respondents indicated that within the project, their income
had increased more than 25% over the last two years. The average additional net income per
CPG beneficiary was around TJS 565 (Tajikistan Somoni) in 2011 for both crop and
livestock groups and TJS 2,112 for the crop groups only in 2012. These amounts are much
higher than the 87 Somoni/month before the start of the project. Of the 25,012 beneficiaries
in the CPGs, 18,759 or 75% were women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

72.     EFSSIP contributed to building long-term capacity in many areas. The institutional
capacity of oblast officials was boosted through the changes in design of EFSSIP and the
decision to have local authorities manage the selection of beneficiaries and the distribution of
project support. EFSSIP worked closely with officials in Khatlon and trained them in project
implementation. Also, assigning local NGOs to monitor beneficiary selection and work with
the CPGs has strengthened the capacity of NGOs, who have been an essential element in
successful implementation of the CPG component. At present, 22 local NGOs support the
program, including a national coordinating NGO; 15 local NGOs covering the 24 districts
responsible for group mobilization and support, and 7 NGOs providing training of groups.
NGOs have also played an important role in supporting the Community Seed Funds. The
long-term capacity of the private sector, especially among domestic seed producers has also
been strengthened.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

                                              18
73.    Positive: By training and supporting agro-dealers, the project not only contributed to
building capacity of these merchants in the private sector, but also played a part in increasing
the overall quality of the seed available and the demand for higher quality seed by farmers
who saw the benefits of using better seed.

74.    EFSSIP contributed to the empowerment of communities and social cohesion through
the formation of CPGs, and helped farmers/groups to understand that they can have a greater
voice and role in decision-making in other areas including voicing their demands for training
and better quality products and services.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

75.      The institutional risk to development outcome is moderate. The institutional risk to
development outcome is rated as moderate, given the challenge to sustain project activities
and achievements by the organizations established by the project without any external
support. Project supported established of the 24 Community Seed Funds formally registered
in all 24 target districts of Khatlon oblast and the Centre of support to Agriculture Producers
as an umbrella organization for the agri-dealers network at the oblast level. Capacity of the
newly-established institutional structures is very low, as they were not involved in actual
implementation of project activities mainly completed by local NGOs. There is a risk that
formalized CSFs will lack capacity to carry on project activities to support CPGs when the
project financing stops, in particular related to monitoring of CPGs, return of required
amount of seeds/cash after harvesting, replacement of outdated seeds, providing services for
seed cleaning and treatment. However, as these institutional bodies were established under
the local hukumats at district level, there is a level of oversight which will ensure that CSF
activities continue.

76.      The financial risk to development outcome is moderate. At the sector level, one risk
is if policy changes related to the resolution of the cotton debt and improved access to credit
for non-cotton farmers are reversed. The project’s main financial risk is associated with the
use of revolving fertilizers fund account. The structure of the Public Utility Entity’s Center of
Agricultural Producers Support was established under the Khatlon oblast hukumat and Oblast
level Department of Agriculture to assume responsibility over the Revolving Fertilizers Fund.
As the structure did not exist before and did not have time to prove its capacity in financial
management, there is a risk that some part of the revolving fund money could be lost due to
poor performance of the executing agency. The Ministry of Finance and Agency on Financial
control and Anti-corruption will supervise the funds use and utilization.

77.     Fertilizers Network: The project’s initial intention to develop a private network of
agro-input dealers in Khatlon was challenged by inadequate timing left for resolving the
mechanism of the fund before the project’s completion (see paragraph 32). The PMU made a
great effort to establish the mechanism that would allow the institutional framework for this
activity to remain in force and function beyond the project’s closing date. Given that project
                                              19
agreement was signed with the Ministry of Finance, the revolving fund should have been also
monitored and overseen by the Ministry of Finance as accountable for these resources. At
this stage it is difficult to give this umbrella organization status of the Association, as
Association would assume responsibility over the US$1.33 million project funds and current
legislation does not allow transfer of assets owned by the State (equipment, fertilizers) to
civil society organizations. Also the overall arrangement for overseeing the work and funds
flow of this entity would be challenging. However, the follow-on project will continue to
support the private agro-dealer sector somewhat reducing this risk.

78.     Community Seed Funds were registered as public organizations as all the equipment
procured under the project, most importantly seed cleaning machines and incubators were
transferred to them. These organizations will continue working with interested CPGs on
contractual basis and will also provide services on cleaning seeds and seeds chemical
treatment to help sustaining their activities and cover the costs. Challenge for the CSFs will
be to establish trust and communication with the CPGs as the CSF should ensure broad
outreach it the district.

79.     The environmental risk to development outcome is low. EFSSIP’s environmental
rating was ‘B’. The activities under the Additional Financing did not require any
modification of the environmental category as they were largely considered neutral or
positive. The seed and fertilizer package distributed through FAO and the NGOs was
accompanied by instructions on proper uses as well as adequate quantities of application. The
veterinary package should help to reduce disease incidents within domestic livestock.

80.    The social risk to development outcome is low. The social impact of the activities has
been significant and positive. The activities with basic assistance have and will improve
household food security by: reducing adverse social consequences in terms of aggravating
poverty and relying excessively on relief food supplies; re-allocating cotton land to cereal
production that would also help restore soil fertility thereby reversing a trend caused by over-
cropping cotton; and minimizing the scope for the continuing distress sales of livestock by
the poorest households. Emergency support for livestock production has also allowed farmers
to preserve their existing livestock resources until current feed resources improve. Cereal
production should further increase farm incomes considerably, alleviating rural poverty and
enhancing the ability to produce food.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

81.    The project was a rational and timely response to Tajikistan’s emergency situation.
The Bank team worked closely with the other partners and the client to prepare EFSSIP.
Given the experiences and realities related to the food price crisis, the preparation team kept
the project’s design simple for relatively easy implementation and urgent delivery of
                                              20
packages to farmers. The team also took into account many studies and assessments of
Tajikistan’s circumstances in designing a good project, with measurable outcome indicators
that were well-linked to the PDO. Changes that were made to project design delayed some
aspects; however, these allowed the project to cover a much larger number of the poor and
enhance overall project outcomes.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

82.     The FAO was responsible for implementing the original project, and all teams
worked together proactively to learn from limitations and correct course where needed at
each stage of implementation, including through restructuring. Particularly, the Bank team
spent the necessary time to study the various aspects of the constraints facing Tajik farmers
and input suppliers before introducing new elements into EFSSIP. For example, the team
spent two months during the baseline research phase before introducing the Revolving Fund,
to study the agricultural input supply market, and the level of awareness among the farmers
on new technologies of the cultivation of crops and production growth. This phase was also
used to design training materials and the information campaign. The project also contracted
local NGOs to monitor project performance in distribution to beneficiaries to complement
Bank supervision. The Preliminary Evaluation and two surveys conducted in the project
target areas in 2009 during implementation, to evaluate the effectiveness of the input support
programs, informed overall implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory (This rating reflects the ‘S’ rating for both Quality at Entry and
Supervision).

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

83.     Government ownership of the project was high. As mentioned in Section 2.2, close
coordination at national government level, between the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Finance, and among the Ministry of Agriculture, local hukumats at district level
and the PMU contributed to successful project implementation. The project was designed as
an emergency operation and did not envisage any policy reforms, though it provided support
to agriculture sector diversification through improving access to quality inputs.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                             21
84.     The PMU did an outstanding job in achieving the set project development outcomes.
The leadership of the PMU Director in establishing a good working relationship with a range
of stakeholders and implementers, starting from beneficiaries and up to local khukumats has
been instrumental in making EFSSIP a success. In a highly fragmented environment, the
Implementing Agency was very innovative to design mechanisms of the fertilizer revolving
fund, and tailor it to specific activities and bring together the Ministry of Agriculture and
Oblast hukumats to achieve an objective.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory (This rating reflects the ‘S’ rating for both Government and the
Implementing Agency).

6. Lessons Learned

85.     Establishment of the Community Production Groups and Community Seed Funds as
the coordinating mechanism and umbrella organizations proved to be positively accepted and
understood by beneficiaries. After the restructuring of large collective farms in Tajikistan and
after farmers were granted the freedom to farm, the project’s mechanism of bringing farmers
together with the objective of jointly making decisions and improving the access to agri-
inputs was a positive experience. The farmers were not forced to grow something collectively,
but were encouraged to make their own informed decisions with the help of the NGOs
involved in the process. This form of cooperation during the course of land reforms can be
extended at later stages and viewed as the first step to successfully establishing
producers/farmers association.

86.      Close coordination between all parties can be invaluable to a project’s success.
Effective project management and good support from FAO headquarters resulted in the
timely delivery of seed and fertilizer to Dushanbe. Effective liaison with national government
facilitates not only project implementation but also the transfer of project ownership.

87.     There are strong benefits to partnerships with NGOs in contributing to and
implementing community activities. Local NGOs played a critical role in overall
implementation throughout the project’s life, from selecting beneficiaries and distributing
input packages to providing training and extension needs to the CPGs and other farmers and
monitoring project implementation. NGOs were also important in liaising local government
officials. In addition, training local NGOs to carry out activities has contributed to long-term
sustainability of activities beyond EFSSIP’s life.

88.     Where the capacity and resources of local government are limited, project design that
involves active local government support should be accompanied by an adequate allocation
of project resources to guide and support local government in the implementation of these
roles and responsibilities.

89.    Emergency operations are important to address short-term crises; however, additional
financing and/or increased funding is key to increasing the sustainability of ongoing activities
and contributing to further growth. In the case of EFSSIP, the original focus was on resolving
                                              22
the immediate food insecurity crisis situation, but the additional financing was critical in
supporting community groups and helping to address the longer-term structural constraints in
the agriculture sector (such as low yields due to poor quality seed and fertilizer) that would
have continued to affect poor households and keep them from responding better to further
shocks.

90.     Short-term emergency projects that reach large numbers of beneficiaries inevitably
impinge to some extent on existing, long-term activities of other agencies. Active
coordination with these agencies on the selection of target areas and beneficiaries can reduce
these conflicts.

91.      Project teams need to be realistic in their expectations of the various processes,
especially those concerning the procurement process and the time it could generally take to
complete these processes including within the Bank. Implementation of Component E was
delayed due to the unexpected delays in setting up the agro-dealers and also the procurement
of fertilizer. This resulted in delays in its distribution and the setting up of fertilizer networks.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (E.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                            Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                                                      Percentage of
              Components                  Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                       Appraisal
                                             millions)     millions)
Support for Agriculture Inputs (FAO)            4.35         3.50         80.00
Improvement of Livestock Health and
                                                1.80         1.00         56.00
Husbandry (FAO)
Community Production Groups                     3.24         3.38         104.00
Agro-inputs supply market development           0.90         2.33         258.00
Project Management (FAO and PMU)                0.96         0.85         88.50
Total Baseline Cost                             11.25       11.06         98.00
Physical Contingencies                          0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                             0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs                             0.00         0.00          0.00
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00         0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required                        0.00         0.00          0.00

(b) Financing

                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                            Type of Co-                                  Percentage
     Source of Funds                        Estimate        Estimate
                             financing                                  of Appraisal
                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)

Borrower                                         0.00         0.00          0.00
FCRP TF                                          5.00         4.97         99.40
Russia FPCR                                      6.25         6.09         97.44




                                           24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project Restructuring Paper (P115953 Russia EFSSIP-AF, July 23, 2009) presents the
revised Results Framework with Results Indicators for each component. The following are
the outputs and results achieved under each component.

Component A: Support for Agriculture Inputs.

Intermediate Results Indicators:

    (i)       Area planted by beneficiary households (hectares). Targets:

Under original project: at least 7,500;
Under additional financing: at least 4,000.
Actual achievements: total of 7,700 hectares.

    (ii)      Distribute seed and fertilizer packages: Targets:

Under original project: at least 28,000;
Under additional financing: at least another 27,000.
Actual achievement: total of 89,000. (The final ISR indicates a number of 94,000).

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory.

The immediate objective of Component A was to increase the cereal production and post-
harvest capacities of food-insecure households. Input prices at the time of project design had
allowed extending assistance to approximately 70,000 highly vulnerable households in 19
districts (116 jamoats) of Tajikistan. The input package consisted of certified wheat seed and
fertilizer, sufficient to plant up to 0.1 hectare per household. Further, the project produced
and distributed grassroots extension messages to farming households on best practices for
wheat production.

Project achievement/Outputs under Component:

    •      In total, input packages were delivered to jamoats for distribution to nearly 89,000
           households. 7 As per post-distribution monitoring, conducted by the NGO Shahrvand,
           the project’s input packages reached at least 85,000 households. Eligibility for the
           project’s assistance was governed by both the criteria and target areas agreed upon by
           the Government, the FAO and the World Bank, and were based on the Emergency
           Food Security and Livelihoods Assessment, conducted jointly by FAO, the World
           Food Programme and the United Nations Children’s Fund in April/May 2008. The



7
 The project delivered the following inputs to jamoats for onward distribution to beneficiaries: (i)
wheat seeds and fertilizer for 71,767 households under Component A; and (ii) fodder seeds and
fertilizer for 7,222 households, and hybrid maize seeds and fertilizers for 10,000 households under
Component B.
                                                  25
       criteria were as follows: (i) vulnerable families; (ii) women-headed households with
       three or more children under the age of five; and (iii) availability of more than 0.1
       hectare of land.
   •   The standard household input package consisted of 17.5 kg of high-quality wheat
       seed and 30 kg of urea fertilizer, sufficient to plant 0.1 hectare per household, for a
       total of approximately 7,200 hectares.
   •   In all, the project purchased 1,265 tons of wheat seed (Konya 2002, Starshina,
       Krasnodar 99, Yasaul and Tanya varieties), which were suitable for the agro-
       ecological conditions in Khatlon, and 2,102 tons of urea fertilizer.
   •   Approximately 6,000 hectares were sown in November 2008 with improved wheat
       seed, representing some 83 percent of the seeds provided. Overall, in 2008/09,
       estimates suggest that the wheat seed provided by the project represented about 2.8
       percent of all wheat seed planted in the autumn of 2008 (255,000 hectares) and 9.5
       percent of seed planted on ‘presidential plots’.
   •   As most of the beneficiaries planted the seeds provided by the project in addition to
       their own seeds, the overall increase in wheat production at national level can be
       estimated at 2 percent.
   •   On average, some 3 tons of wheat were harvested per hectare, with a low of 1.7 tons
       in Baljuvon District and a high of 4.36 tons per hectare in Bokhtar District.
   •   As per post-distribution monitoring, conducted by the NGO Shahrvand, 67,900 of the
       selected households (97 percent) received wheat seed and 65,800 households received
       fertilizer (93 percent), of which 75 percent had received their full entitlement of 17.5
       kg of seed and 30 kg of fertilizer.
   •   All households receiving input packages were also provided with grassroots
       information materials on sustainable wheat growing practices, wheat seed collection
       and storage, fertilizer application, post-harvest losses and seed processing.
   •   Targeted farmers usually cultivate 0.5-0.7 hectare of land with winter wheat. Thus the
       overall increase through seeds provided by FAO in terms of individual household
       production averaged 20 percent.
   •   As per post-distribution monitoring, some 93 percent of households receiving input
       packages were within the defined selection criteria.

Component B: Improvement of Livestock Health and Husbandry

Intermediate Results Indicator:

Number of beneficiary families benefiting from livestock package:

Target: 7,000 beneficiaries (not revised).
Achievement: 7,222 beneficiaries.

Volume of livestock fodder produced associated with project activities (tons):

Target: At least 10,000.
Achievement: 21,000 to 24,500 tons.

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory.
                                             26
The immediate objective of Component B was to improve the capacity for fodder production
among food-insecure rural households. Under this component, 7,000 food insecure
households in 14 jamoats (four districts) of Rasht Valley were targeted. Through the
increased availability of high-value fodder, livestock production and productivity would be
enhanced, thus improving the nutritional intake of farming families and enabling the
generation of additional cash-income.

Criteria for the selection of beneficiaries included vulnerable and women-headed households
with three or more children under the age of five, a maximum of one large or three small
ruminants and a minimum of 0.1 hectare of land suitable for fodder production. It was
intended to provide a standardized package of 1.8 kg of fodder seed (lucerne) and 40 kg of
fertilizers (20 kg of superphosphate, 10 kg of nitrogen/urea and 10 kg of potassium),
sufficient for the cultivation of 0.1 hectare per household and a total planted area of 700
hectares.

Owing to difficulties in securing veterinary supplies and animal feed, a decision was made
jointly by the Government, the FAO, and the World Bank to change Component B to the
provision of fodder seed (lucerne) and fertilizer to 7,000 beneficiary households in place of
concentrates and veterinary supplies. The cost savings created by these changes, together
with a fall in the prices of seeds and fertilizers, allowed Component A to be scaled up the
number of beneficiaries. Additional cost savings during implementation allowed the project
to provide hybrid maize seed and fertilizer to a further 10,000 beneficiaries in June 2009
under the scaling up of Component B.

Project achievement/Outputs under Component B:

   •   In mid-April 2009, fodder seeds and fertilizers were delivered from FAO warehouses
       to jamoat warehouses, for onward distribution to 7,222 beneficiary households from
       251 villages in 15 jamoats of four districts (Nurobod, Roghun, Tavildara and Darvoz)
       and one district in Khatlon. Full fodder production packages reached beneficiaries by
       the end of April, in time for the agricultural season.
   •   Of this total, 99 percent received their input package (7,150 households). A further
       10,000 households received input packages to produce maize for livestock feeding
       purposes. In 2009, 93 percent of beneficiaries planted their seeds.
   •   The individual input package consisted of 1.8 kg of high-quality lucerne seed, 10 kg
       of urea fertilizer and 30 kg of single superphosphate (SSP) fertilizer. The original
       plan to use potassium chloride in addition to SSP and urea was dropped as it was not
       possible to obtain sufficient quantities.
   •   Approximately 700 hectares were planted with lucerne seed. In addition, 1,000
       hectares were planted with hybrid maize seed (Component B extension), generating
       an expected output of 6-8 tons of maize per hectare (based on 2008 yields) and/or 30-
       35 tons of dry mass per hectare for animal feeding purposes.
   •   All beneficiary households received grassroots technical messages on fodder seed
       planting, fertilizer application and harvesting practices (10,000 copies printed).
       Further, two technical instructions on environmental issues were distributed (8 000
       copies of each).
                                             27
   •   The screening and verification of the beneficiary list revealed that 96 percent of the
       project’s beneficiaries met the selection criteria. As per post-distribution monitoring,
       almost 99 percent of the selected beneficiaries received their input package
       (approximately 7 150 households).
   •   The fodder produced on individual plots will be sufficient to cover the nutritional
       intake of three small ruminants or one large ruminant for a period of 11 months.

Component D: Community Production Groups (CPGs): Revised project targets:

Number of people trained in extension programs in the project areas:

Target: of 5,250.
Achievement: 12,166 people.

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory.

2,300 members of CPGs were interviewed during the Impact Evaluation Survey. Most of the
beneficiaries interviewed received information about EFSSIP from local NGOs (1,304) and
local authorities (513). 2091 of the participants attended training on agricultural crops etc.
The IES, which also looked at education levels of the participants, conclude that the
relatively high literacy of the beneficiaries can assure the sustainability of project results. Of
the 2,091 who participated in training, 96.6% indicated that they apply the knowledge and
skills gained in their agricultural activities. Most of the beneficiaries have been members of
the CPGs for over 2 years.

Volume of seed fertilizer delivered to CPGs (tons):

Target: of 450 seed and 1,100 tons of fertilizer.
Achievement: 470 tons of high quality seeds for crops and 940 tons of fertilizer.

Number of families receiving seed and other benefits through CPGs:

Target: of 18,000.
Achievement: 25,000 families received benefits.

2,300 members of CPGs were interviewed during the Impact Evaluation Survey, and the total
number of their family members was estimated at 19,041. Taking into account this
assumption, the estimated number of direct and indirect beneficiaries of CPGs is 207,000
people, which makes up about 25,000 families.

For crops, 470 tons of high quality seed and planting material has been procured and
distributed to 695 CPGs. An additional 144 CPGs have been formed using seed provided
through the revolving funds. For all crop CPGs, 100% of the required amount of seed has
been repaid, equivalent to 125% of the initially provided amount for grain and some forage
crops and 115% for potatoes. For some crops, such as vegetables, maize and some forage
crops, repayment was made following sale of the product and the cash used to purchase new
seed. There are 15,975 beneficiaries in the crop CPGs. A total of 5,250 ha have been planted
                                               28
from fall 2010 to date including 3,369 ha planted in the fall 2011 and spring 2012 using seed
produced or purchased through the revolving funds. Around 940 tons of fertilizer was also
provided for wheat, maize, flax, and forage crops, as well as jars and lids for preserving
vegetables and berries, and some greenhouse material for vegetable groups. In addition, 24
seed cleaners with a capacity of around 10 t per day and seed treatment machines were
provided and suitable storage facilities obtained for harvested crops and seed. Yields
achieved by the CPGs have been generally higher than the national averages; for example, in
2012, wheat averaged 4.7 t /ha compared with the regional average of 2.8 t/ha; maize yielded
5.0 t/ha compared with 3.9 t/ha; and potatoes 26.2 t/ha compared with 17.8 t/ha.

For livestock, 400 livestock CPGs (350 poultry and 50 rabbit groups) with 4,800 members
were initially established. For the poultry groups, 10 hens and 1 cock were initially procured
and provided to each of 3 members in each group, along with an initial 3-month supply (50
kg for each of the 3 members) of high quality complete feed compound including minerals
and vitamins. For rabbit groups, 3 females and 1 male rabbit were initially provided to each
of three members of each group, along with materials to construct rabbit hutches. Also 24
incubators for egg hatching were procured with one incubator per project district. Poultry
and rabbits have now been distributed to all group members, and an additional 39 groups
formed from the revolving funds. Overall, about 58,900 chickens, more than 1 million eggs,
and more than 6,400 rabbits have been produced by October 2012. For the 2012/13 season, it
is anticipated that the number of groups will increase by around 170.

About 936 ha of land have been planted under the project in 2011-2012, including 238 ha
allocated for new groups.

Component E: Agro-Input Supply Market Development: (Revised project target)

Number of people participating in seminars for dealers, farmers and agricultural experts:

Target: of 1,150;
Achievement: 2,997 people participated in 115 trainings for agri-dealers and farmers.

In addition, 1,071 people participated in demonstrations organized at the demo plots by the
contracted NGOs. Also, 15,163 client days of trainings were provided. Client days of training
provided to females amounted to 11,372.

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory.

Value of private sector sales in agro-inputs nationwide (US$):

Baseline: 17m;
Target: 30m.
Achievement: US$ 57m.

The outputs are detailed in the Final Report on Implementation of the Agro-Inputs Supply
Market Development Report, 2013, and summarized below:

                                             29
   •   Development of a training program for new technologies and the effective use of
       qualitative agro-inputs in cultivation of crops in the 24 districts of Khatlon region;
   •   94 seminars covering 2482 participants in training;
   •   12 demonstration plots to show results of the use of quality seeds and cost
       effectiveness;
   •   Awareness-raising activities (television, radio, booklets etc.);
   •   PMU has provided agro-dealers from 12 target districts of Khatlon with high quality
       mineral fertilizers to meet needs of farmers;
   •   Training of agro-dealers in procedures such as bookkeeping, and preparation of
       requests for delivery etc.

The Survey found that more than 10,000 leaders and members of DFs in Khatlon Oblast were
aware of the effectiveness of the application of quality mineral fertilizers in the cultivation of
crops through seminars, field workshops, demonstration and distribution of information
materials. At least 50% of the heads of DFs out of the total number trained had started to use
the practice of the demonstration plots on their fields to grow crops, and the 12 agro-dealers
were providing farmers with quality seeds.




                                               30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic IRR: 15.2%

NPV: USD 1.33 million

1. An initial ex-ante economic analysis of the project was carried out at the project appraisal
   in 2008. It was revised at the project restructuring in 2009 reflecting the changes and
   additions that were made in the project’s design. The ex-ante analysis described and
   determined the expected benefits to derive from the project’s components and activities;
   however it did not include a cost-benefit analysis and calculation of the project economic
   return. The current ex-post analysis is comparing the actual project results and
   performance with the baseline situation applying the same analytical approaches and
   methods that were used at appraisal, however it also comprises the cost-benefit analysis
   for each component of the project and it presents the project’s Economic Rate of Return
   (ERR).

2. Primary data and information were collected from the project’s AMs, ISRs,
   implementation and M&E reports. A conservative approach was applied to the presented
   analysis.

Component A - Support for Agriculture Inputs (originally US$2.7 million).

3. Initially this component was designed to support the FAO administered program
   providing agricultural inputs in Tajikistan. Particularly the component provided the
   households with standard packages composed of high quality seed for winter wheat and
   fertilizer. It was expected that the import of higher yielding wheat varieties would help
   farmers to take advantage of fall rains in raising a successful winter crop. It is also
   expected that this component would boost the country’s wheat yields and improve food
   security in the medium term. It was roughly estimated that a package valued at some
   US$80 per household would be sufficient for supporting winter wheat production of
   some 28,000 families. The economic rationale for importing clean certified seed vs. seed
   retained from previous harvests is very clear. Certified clean seed that has been properly
   stored, and transported, and corresponds to internationally accepted seed standards
   accompanied by equally certified fertilizer and reasonably adequate weather conditions is
   guaranteed to increase yields. It was assumed in the ex-ante economic analysis that an
   estimated 7,843 ha would be supplied with high quality certified seed and fertilizer
   package estimated to cost approximately US$2.8 million. It was planned, that the yields
   on these 7,843 ha assuming proper seeding rate, and proper fertilizer applications would
   approximate around 3.0 to 3.5 tons/ha. This would amount to anywhere between 25,000
   and 40,000 tons of wheat, or about 1/12th of the current yearly production. At the current
   market price of approximately US$ 300 per ton, this volume of wheat would have a
   market value equivalent in the range of US$ 7-10 million. These figures did not include
   labor and machinery costs, which amounted to approximately 12% of production costs.
   The analysis considered that the benefits would be declining in the succeeding years as
   the farmers would use part of their harvest for the seeding of next season, however with


                                              31
   proper cleaning of the recycled seed material, partial benefits would be felt over at least
   the next 5 years.

4. After the project restructuring in 2010, it was expected that the FAO together with the
   local government would distribute the wheat seed and fertilizer to more than 71,000 food
   insecure households in Khatlon region. Additional US$1.65 million financing (for a total
   of US$ 5.15 million including reallocation of about US$800,000 of uncommitted funds
   from Component B) was included to finance the cost of imports of high quality winter
   wheat seeds and fertilizer in time for autumn 2009 plantings in the severely food insecure
   areas identified by WFP Food Security Monitoring System. It was estimated that a
   package valued at about US$60 per household would be sufficient for supporting winter
   wheat production for at least 27,000 families. From economic point of view, it was
   expected that the providing the households with improved wheat seeds and fertilizer
   would increase wheat yields and improve households’ food security.
5. The ex-post analysis of the component was based on the actual achievements and it
   shows that over 10-year period the component generates benefit streams of about
   US$9.12 million in total (including US$6.38 from the first phase and US$2.74 from the
   second phase of the component). The benefits derive mainly from the increased wheat
   yield resulting in increased wheat production.

Component B - Improvement of Livestock Health and Husbandry

6. At the beginning, it was planned that this component would support the FA0
   administered program aimed at improving livestock health and husbandry. The funding
   under this component would support the purchase of a package of veterinary services that
   would ensure that minimal vaccination and treatment of the most critical diseases and
   pests (worms) and the purchase of feed (mainly concentrates). It was assumed that a
   veterinary package would value at approximately US$250/household for some 7,400
   families. The ex-ante analysis considered that the benefit for the concentrate fodder
   supplement and veterinary services package would have a dramatic effect because the
   concentrate fodder provision would significantly help in improving livestock vigor during
   winter months and it would have a significant effect on reproduction rates in spring. It
   was also expected that most benefits would accrue from the prophylactic measures that
   prevent the spread of disease, and thus would have an impact well beyond the livestock
   treated under this intervention.

7. However, due to difficulties in securing veterinary supplies and animal feed, at the
   project restructuring it was decided to change this component to the provision of fodder
   (alfalfa) seed and fertilizer for beneficiary households. Delivery of alfalfa seed and
   fertilizer in the Rasht Valley took place in 2009. More than 7,000 beneficiaries in 4
   districts and 15 Jamoats received their inputs.

8. The ex-post analysis of the component was based on alfalfa production model and it
   suggests that the component generates about US$0.6 of direct benefits due to increased
   production and supply of high quality hay. Benefit-cost ratio of alfalfa is very high
   because it is a perennial hay crop that continues yielding hay for several years after initial
   investments.
                                               32
Component D - Community Production Groups (US$3.235 million).

9. This component supported the formation and functioning of groups of poor rural
   households at the community level to help them improve their food security and nutrition
   and simultaneously diversify their production away from the predominant, but
   unprofitable cotton crop. This program implemented with the involvement of local
   grassroots NGOs, who helped to identify and organize eligible group members - the
   Community Production Groups (CPGs) consisted 10-20 members, selected from among
   the poor households. The CPGs selected the commodities they wished to produce. There
   were the following major categories of CPGs: (i) crop CPGs (wheat, fodder crops,
   oilseeds), (ii) vegetable and fruit CPGs (potatoes, vegetables, spices, soft fruits), and (iii)
   small livestock CPGs (poultry, rabbits).

10. Food grain CPGs. It was envisaged that approximately 325 crop focused CPGs will be
    established over a three-year period. The typical commodity micro-grant to a CPG would
    consist of quality seed for up to 0.4 hectare per group member for wheat or fodder crops
    or up to 0.3 ha for oilseeds. It was also expected that each group member would be
    entitled to receive an allocation of fertilizer (adequate for an application rate of 200
    kg/ha). Group members required to return 125% percent of the quantity of seeds received
    to the communal seed find after the harvest, for subsequent distribution to other members
    of the community or for the acquisition of new seeds from a commercial seed producer.

11. The ex-ante analysis showed that the significant benefits for wheat producing CPGs. For
    example, a household planting 4,000 square meters with quality wheat seeds could expect
    to harvest about 1.2 tons of wheat grain, equivalent to US$342. Even after returning
    125% of the initially received seed grant to the CPG, the household still could generate
    US$242 in additional net income in the first year. The analysis considered the gradual
    productivity decline of seed kept from previous harvests, resulting in benefits decline by
    about 10% each year. It was planned that over the three-year winter wheat period 2009-
    2012, the wheat program would generate about 19,350 tons of wheat, valued at US$3.225
    million, and directly benefit 12,000 poor households with about 84,000 family members.

12. Vegetables and fruit CPGs. It was expected that the value of the seed potato micro-grant
    would be about US$72 per family, that of the vegetable an spice seed package about
    US$15 per family, and that of the plastic sheeting also about US$15 per family. The ex-
    ante analysis suggested that the benefits from the vegetables and fruit program would be
    direct improvement of household food security. It estimated that even with modest yield
    assumptions, in the absence of fertilizer applications other than dung, 500 m2 would
    yield about 1.25 tons of potatoes. With 10% kept as seed for the following year, this
    would still provide somewhat over 3 kg of potatoes per day for the household over an
    entire year.

13. Small Livestock CPGs. The ex-ante economic analysis did not include the analysis of this
    activity. However, it was expected that this activity would promote household-level food
    security and income diversification for poor families through small livestock production
    focused on poultry and rabbits.
                                               33
14. Poultry Vaccination Program. The ex-ante economic analysis for this activity outlined
    those rural households may own as many as 100 chickens, with 20 to 40 being the typical
    range. As many as half of these birds were estimated to die each year from Newcastle
    Disease (NCD). In Sughd and Khathlon together, official statistics reported around 2.5
    million birds (in 2007), while the actual numbers were considered to be substantially
    larger. It was estimated that with an average value of US$4-5 per mature bird, the
    monetary value of the losses caused by this high prevalence of NCD amounted to
    anywhere from US$5-7.5 million annually (based on officially reported bird numbers) to
    as much as US$20 million (based on the substantially larger estimate of unreported
    poultry). The analysis drew attention to the fact that at the family level, the loss in high
    protein food was even more significant, because most eggs is used for hatching
    replacement birds, and only a few animals were used for home consumption. With the
    relatively new I2 thermos table vaccine, which was administered with a drop in the eye,
    women could themselves vaccinate their chickens. The cost of the vaccine was estimated
    less than US$0.0l per animal per vaccination, or approximately US$0.02 per year. It was
    assumed that the program would benefit more than 500,000 rural poultry owning
    households and cost approximately US$330,000 over two years.

15. Four cost-benefit models were developed for the ex-post analysis of the component’s
    benefits. They were based on the actual data and achievements of each activity of the
    component. The analysis shows that over 8-year period from the actual implementation in
    2010 the component generates benefits amounting in about US$4.89 million in total.

Component E. Agro-Input Supply Market Development

16. The ex-ante analysis envisaged that the component benefits would result from facilitation
    of more intensive input use leading to increased productivity and output. It was assumed
    that the aggregate sales of farm inputs such as fertilizer and certified seed would increase
    by about 40% to about US$25 million at the end of the project. As a result fertilizer
    application rates were expected to increase by about 40% while showing similar increase
    in the use of certified seed.

17. The ex-post analysis of the component was based on its actual achievements and it shows
    that the component generates about US$0.68 million of direct benefit in three-year period.

Project Economic Analysis

18. Although this project is an emergency operation, it had some activities that produced
    benefits that continue deriving for several years. In addition, the project had two actual
    phases: the first phase started in 2008 and the second started two years later – after the
    restructuring in 2010. Therefore 10-year period of analysis was used to account for the
    long-term impacts of the project interventions (from 2009 to 2018). The scenario
    presented in the economic analysis is conservative. The analysis presents the balance of
    costs and benefits of the project and it is based on the actual data and results of the
    project.

                                              34
19. The analysis identified the quantifiable benefits that relate directly to the activities
    undertaken following implementation of the project, or that can be attributed to the
    project’s implementation. The incremental quantifiable benefit stream comprises of three
    main elements:
            a. to increase crops production through providing the benefiting households with
                agricultural inputs and improving the agri-input supply market,
            b. to increase livestock production by improving the households’ livestock
                health and husbandry practices, and
            c. to increase food production by the involved households by grouping them into
                CPGs.

20. Seven cost-benefit models presenting the benefit streams outlined above were used for
    calculation of the overall benefit streams on the basis of economic prices. All local costs
    were converted into their approximate economic values using a Standard Conversion
    Factor (SCF) of 0.85. All values are given in constant 2013 prices.

21. Given the above mentioned benefit and cost streams, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
    of the project is estimated at 15.2% which can be considered as acceptable given the
    emergency character of the project. The Net Present Value (NPV) of the Project’s net
    benefit stream, discounted at 10%, is positive - USD 1.3 million. The summary of the
    project economic analysis is presented in Table 1 below.




                                              35
Table 1. Project Economic Analysis, USD million


                                        2008     2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
   Incremental Benefit Streams                                                       2014    2015   2016   2017   2018
                                       (PY0)    (PY1) (PY2) (PY3) (PY4) (PY5)

Component A. Support for Agricultural Inputs:
  Phase 1 (2008)                          -     0.75   0.94    0.94   0.93   0.76    0.61    0.49   0.39   0.31   0.25
  Phase 2 (2010)                                         -     0.36   0.44   0.44    0.44    0.36   0.29   0.23   0.18
Component B. Improvement of
                                                       -0.25   0.17   0.17   0.17   - 0.25   0.17   0.17   0.17   0.10
Livestock Health and Husbandry
Component D. Community Production Groups (CPG):
Food grain CPGs
                                                  -      -     0.37   0.37   0.30    0.24    0.19   0.16   0.12   0.10
Oilseed, Fodder, Potato, Vegetable
                                                               0.19   0.18   0.15    0.12    0.10   0.08   0.06   0.05
and Soft Fruits CPGs
Small Livestock CPGs                                           0.04   0.04   0.03    0.02    0.02   0.02   0.01   0.01
Poultry Vaccination Program                       -      -     1.06   0.64   0.21      -       -      -      -      -
Component E. Agro-Input Supply
                                                               0.19   0.24   0.24
Market Development
Total Incremental Benefit Streams          -   0.75    0.69    3.32   3.01   2.31    1.18    1.33   1.09   0.91   0.69
Project Costs (economic)                 3.19  1.06    3.98    1.06   0.27
Net Incremental benefits               - 3.19 -0.31    -3.29   2.26   2.74   2.31    1.18    1.33   1.09   0.91   0.69
EIRR                                   15.2%
NPV @10% (USD million)                   1.33




                                                               36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

              Names                          Title                    Unit
                              Lending and Supervision
    Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu      Consultant                            EASTS
    Alexander Balakov          Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSO2
    Anna Crole-Rees            Consultant                             AES
    Arcadii Capcelea           Senior Environmental Specialist       ECSEN
    Asyl Undeland              Consultant                            SASDL
    Awudu Abdulai              Consultant                            ECSSD
    Ayse Seda Aroymak          Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
    Bekzod Shamsiev            Senior Agriculture Economist          SASDA
    Bobojon Yatimov            Senior Rural Development Specialist   ECSAR
    Brian Aidan Lynch          Consultant                            ECSSD
    Daniel P. Gerber           Rural Development Specialist          ECSAR
    Daphne Sawyerr-Dunn        Program Assistant                     ECSSD
    Dilshod Karimova           Procurement Analyst                   ECSO2
    Elmas Arisoy               Manager                               EASR2
    Garry N. Christensen       Consultant                             AES
    Hannah M. Koilpillai       Senior Finance Officer                CTRFC
    Helen Z. Shahriari         Sr. Social Scientist                  AFTCS
    Jeren Kabayeva             Operations Analyst                    ECSAR
    John Otieno Ogallo         Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
    Lola Ibragimova            Social Development Specialist         ECSSO
    Malathi S. Jayawickrama    Senior Operations Officer             ECSAR
    Marc Peter Sadler          Practice Leader                       SDNVP
    Mark R. Lundell            Sector Manager                        EASCS
    Naushad A. Khan            Consultant                            ECSO2
    Nicolas Ahouissoussi       Senior Agriculture Economist          ECSAR
    Nikolai Soubbotin          Senior Counsel                        LEGAM
    Norpulat Daniyarov         Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
    Patrick Labaste          Sector Leader                           EASER
    Shodi Nazarov            Financial Management Analyst            ECSO3
    Thirumangalam V. Sampath Consultant                              AFTN2
    Valencia Copeland          Program Assistant                     ECSAR
                                        37
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

     Stage of Project Cycle                        USD Thousands (including
                              No. of staff weeks     travel and consultant
                                                             costs)

Lending
FY06                                                        246.16
FY07                                                        438.14
FY08                                                         50.75
Total:                                                      735.05
Supervision/ICR
FY06                                                         0.00
FY07                                                         0.00
FY08                                                        282.49
Total:                                                      282.49




                                   38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(if any)




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(if any)




                                     40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                                                   Unofficial translation

# 202 (13), “24th ” of October, 2012

                                                    Executive Office of the President of
                                                    the Republic of Tajikistan
                                                    Agriculture and Land Use Department

                                                    To: Ms. Marsha Olive, Country Manager,
                                                    World Bank Tajikistan Country Office,
                                                    Republic of Tajikistan

Dear Ms. Olive,

I would first like to thank you for the opportunity to provide comments to the report,
prepared by the Bank, on completion of implementation of Emergency Food Security and
Seed Imports Project and Additional Financing for this Project. The Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan is interested in objective independent assessment of the results of
implementation of these projects in order to learn lessons from the experiences of projects
and scale –up the best practices.
Ensuring food security is a priority objective, set by the Republic of Tajikistan. Achieving
this goal is also indicated the National Development Strategy of the country until 2015. In
this regards, the development of agricultural sector and rural areas, where reside about 64%
of the population of the Republic of Tajikistan, is a priority for the economy, given its
contribution in ensuring food security and improving the welfare of the population.
Emergency Food Security and Seed Imports Project was designed as an emergency measure
to support the most needed stratum of population in rural areas in response to the global food
price crisis in 2008. The situation in Tajikistan in the above period was also significantly
complicated by the harsh weather in winter 2007-2008. The Government of Tajikistan (GOT)
made an urgent plea for support from the international community in order to stabilize food
security in the country. Based on the experiences and realities of the time period associated
with the food price crisis, the design of the project required the simplicity and ease of
execution for timely delivery of seeds for the poor. The implementation of Emergency Food
Security and Seed Imports Project has made a significant contribution to the increase in the
production of wheat and improved agricultural production without significant interventions
in agricultural practice and in the provision of options for decision-making. The initial
project focused primarily on the most food insecure regions for about 25 % of the poorest
rural households in Khatlon Oblast and Rasht Valley.
The initial project was implemented through FAO and laid a solid foundation for the
continuation of the project implementation with additional financing, provided in 2010 by the
Russian Federation Trust Fund to respond to the food price crisis. The continuation of the
project with this source of financing allowed to make changes in the design of the project and
to develop a mechanism to ensure the sustainability of project interventions based on
restructuring of the project, taking into account the longer duration of the project, cost
savings due to its direct implementation through the Project Management Unit under the
                                             41
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as the involvement of local NGOs in the
selection of beneficiaries and the monitoring of their activities within the framework of
Community Production Groups. Implementation of the project followed activities on
awareness rising among communities, jointly with local NGOs and local authorities at the
field. The given project covered about 25,000 direct beneficiaries.
If in the framework of the initial project, beneficiaries of the project mainly received wheat
seeds and fertilizer, the second project was aimed at diversification of agriculture by
providing beneficiaries the choice of crops to be cultivated, and also additional measures
were introduced in order to improve the ability of poor households to cope with the lack of
seeds in case of crop failure. To this end, the project set up 24 district Community Seed
Funds, registered at the level of local governments in all districts of Khatlon Oblast. These
organizations will continue to work with involved Community Production Groups on a
contractual basis, and will also provide seeds cleaning and chemical seed treatment services
in order to help to support their activities and cover expenses. These structures are
established to continue activity of the project related to supplying population with quality
seeds and providing other services (seed cleaning, seed treatment) and to be used as a
framework for integration and support of existing Community Production Groups.
In addition, one of the achievements of the project was the provision and introduction of a
mechanism for financing Fertilizer Revolving Fund and improved Fertilizer supply networks
and implementation through agro-dealers. Based on project financing, the Center to support
agricultural production was established under the Executive Authorities of Khatlon Oblast
and Oblast Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. This Center became responsible to
supervise Fertilizer Revolving Fund, with 1,860 tons of certified fertilizer for the amount 1,
33 million dollars USA. This structure is under the direct control of the Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan.
It is also necessary to note the role of the project in increasing the capacity of local
authorities, as well as the contribution of the project to support development of farming by
providing training courses and individual trainings in the field. Demonstration plots, arranged
in the field by some agro-dealers, and the results, achieved by the Community Production
Groups due to the use of quality seeds, certified fertilizers and the use of the necessary
technology for cultivation had a positive impact on the dynamics of agricultural production
in the project areas.
The project has achieved significant results, taking into account the adjustments that have
been made in the design in the course of its implementation, through close cooperation with
the World Bank, timely decisions, implementation of activities and the carrying out of
monitoring. Unfortunately, the project did not have enough time to provide necessary
assistance and support in the development of the Community Seed Funds and the Center for
support of agricultural production for the post- project sustainability and preservation of the
obtained results, as well as the development of the agricultural input supply market.
Implementation of this project has brought significant results for both beneficiaries at the
local level and for the implementation of reforms in the agricultural sector.
Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to thank the World Bank and its Country
Office in Tajikistan for the support and assistance, provided to the agricultural sector of the
Republic of Tajikistan, and express my hope for continued fruitful cooperation.

Head of Agriculture and Land Use Department,
Executive Office of the President                                           J. Piriyev
                                              42
of the Republic of Tajikistan (signature)

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                            43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

EFSSIP, Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 43890-TJ, May 27, 2008.
EFSSIP Integrated Safeguards Datasheet Appraisal Stage, Report No. AC3696, May 27,
2008.
EFSSIP TF Grant Agreement, July 17, 2008
EFSSIP, Project Restructuring Paper, July 23, 2009.
EFSSIP, Project Restructuring Paper (second), December 21, 2010.
EFSSIP, Implementation Status and Results Report, Numbers 1 to 8, May 2008 to May 2013.
EFSSIP, Aide Memoires of Implementation Support Missions, May 2008 to April, 2013.
EFSSIP, Project Information Document, Report No. AB4781, June 10, 2009.

Government/other Documents

Project Completion Report, Trust Fund Programme, FAO, July 31, 2009.
Status of Implementation of EFSSIP, Report No. UTF/TAJ/004/TAJ, Svetlana Livinets,
Abdusaloh Rasulov, Davlatmo Usufbekova (FAO Tajik Office), November 2008.
Tajikistan: EFSSIP, Project Evaluation and Impact Assessment, 2009,
Tajikistan EFSSIP Preliminary Project Evaluation, June 8, 2009.
Impact Evaluation of EFSSIP, Dushanbe, 2013.
Final Report on EFSSIP’s Implementation of the Agro-Inputs Support Market Development
Program, LLC Agro-Service Khovaling, Dushanbe 2013.




                                          44
                                                   68°E                                                                 70°E                                                                         Rayons
                                                                 KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tursunzoda
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shahrinav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Murghob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nosir Khusrav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   39 Kulob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40 Baljuvon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41 Hamadoni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAJ IK ISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3   Rudaki             22   Shahrituz        42 Shurobod                               CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4   Hissor             23   Qabodiyon        43 Khovaling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTER*
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5   Varzob             24   Jilikul          44 Muminobod
                                                                                                                                                                                                      6   Fayzobod           25   Khuroson         45 Pandjakent                             OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                                                          To                                                                                          7   Vahdat             26   Qumsangir        46 Ayni
                                                                                                       Tashkent                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                    TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                        8   Roghun             27   Bokhtar          47 Shahriston
                                                                                                                                                                                                      9   Nurobod            28   Rumi             48 Zafarobod                              MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                      57                                Andijon                      10   Rasht              29   Jomi             49 Istaravshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                           Fergana                                                                   11   Tojikobod          30   Vakshs           50 Ghonchi
                                                                              To                                             Valley Dary                     UZBEKISTAN                                                                            51 Spitamen                               JAMOAT (SUB-DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                     12   Tavildara          31   Yovon
                                                                           Tashkent                                 Taboshar                r
                                                                                                  52                                   Sy                           To                               13   Jirgatol           32   Sarband          52 Mastchoh
                                                                                                                                                                  Andijon                                                                                                                    RAYON (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                  55                                                                                 14   Darvoz             33   Panj             53 Jabor Rasulov
                                                                                                                    Kayrakkum                                                                        15   Vanj               34   Danghara         54 Kuhistoni Mastchoh                     AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARY*
                                                                                                  Khodjand           Reservoir           Konibodom                                                   16   Ishkoshim          35   Farkhor          55 Ghafurov
                                                                                                       Chkolovsk                 56                                                                                                                                                          OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                     17   Roshtqala          36   Norak            56 Konibodom
                                                     To                    48                     51 53                                  58                                                          18   Rushon             37   Vose             57 Asht                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
             40°N                                  Bukhoro
                                                                                     49                                                                                                              19   Shughnon           38   Temurmalik       58 °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40  Isfara
                                                                                          Ura-                                                                             To                                                                                                      * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,
                                          SOGD                                            Tyube                                                                         Kyzyl-Kiya              72°E                                                                                 where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.


                To
                                         REGION                                           50                                                                                          KY RGY Z REP.
              Bukhoro                                                       47                                                                                                                                                                                             74°E
                                                                                                                                                                                            To                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                         Sary-Tash                                           Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0      20      40       60      80 Kilometers
                                                                                                               an
                                     Pendzhikent                                                       Zeravsh
                                                               Ayni                                           54
                                            45                                                          ge
                                                                          46
                                                                                     i-        Ran                                                          Jirgatal'          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pik Lenin                                             0           20            40           60 Miles

                                                                                 Ala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (7134 m )
                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                 Tr   ans                                                        Rasht                                                 Pik Imeni                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                       11                         Ismail Samani                                          Karakul'
                                                                                                                                                                                     (7495 m )
                                                                                                      Komsomolabad

                                                                                 5                7                       9                                       12
                              Region under                            4                                        8
                             direct Republic                                                                 Obigarm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GHORNO-
                                                       1 DUSHANBE                                                                                     14
                             subordination                 2                                       6                                                                                                                     BADAKHSHAN                                                       Rangkul'
                                                                                                                  40                            Kalaikhum                                  Pik Revolution
                                                                                                   Nurek                 43                                                    Vanj 15
                                                                                                                                                                                               (6,974 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHI N A
              UZ B E K IS TAN                                                                  36                                                                                    P                              ng    Rukhch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                  3                                                                                                                         a                     ta                                      Murgab Murgab




                                                                                                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                  31
                                                                                                                                                                                                     m




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ba
                                                                                                                                          j
                                                                                                                                      Pan




                                                                                                                           44
                                                                      25                                38                                                                                                    i              Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sarezskoye                                                                                                        38°N
             38°N
                                                                                             34                                                                                                        18            r
                                                                            29                        Kulyab 39                                                                                                          s
                                                                               32                                        42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ak
                                                                          27 Kurgan-                    37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     su
                     To                                                      Tyube                                                                                                                                                                     Alichur
                    Qarshi                                                                                        41
                                                               24             30                             Moskovskiy
                                                22                                                                                                                                                        19
                                                      Garavuti                               35                                                                                                                                                           Pamir
                                                                           28
                                                                                                                                                                                     Khorog
                                                        23
                                                                                                                                   KHATLON
                                           Shahrtuz                   26              33
                                                                                                                                    REGION
                                                         h




                                                                                          Pyanj
                                                       Vakhs




                                           21                                                                                                                                     Andarob                     Pik Karl Marx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (6723 m )
                                                                                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vrang
                                                                                                                                                                                                         nj
                                                                                  To                                                                                                                   Pa
                                                                                Baghlan                                                                                                   16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33493R1
                                                                                                                                                                                     Ishkashim


                                                                                            AF GHA NISTA N                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
MARCH 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information

                                                                                                                                                                                                          PAKISTAN                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                            68°E                                                                       70°E                                                                      72°E                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
