f
g-                           lu
I                                                                              il
Il
Ir
H
'.4                                                      pd                          Il
E-'      I                             w                                                     kl
m                                                e,'
o                        H
<sud.'    -                                                   -
O
I
M     w            w
44         w
I                                        Il
J'
I    S                                                e



NALI
CURECQcr   UTAETS
Curreucy Unit             * ai-fn Franc (FR)
-  SS1.00                 R IF 710
PX 1,000              -  US$1 .41
US1 .00                   m SDm 0.92821
A  EANIDIONS         ACRONSD
BOl     Banque Centrale du Nali
BER     Baqué de Developpement du Nali
BIDA    Banque Nationale pour le Dfveloppeuent Agricole
CCCE    Caisse Centrale de CooperatiomL Economique (France)
CKDT    Compagnie Nalienne pour le Dfreloppement des Textiles
Enf     Sconomic Nanagement and Training
BER     Economnc Rate of Returu
?AC     Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperatic« (France)
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
OSRP    Office pour la Stabilisaton et pour la Regularition des Prix
SONiz  Socicté Naiene d'ImportatioL  et d'Exportation
FISCAL IlR
CED?             :  October 1 - Septeaber 30
overent          :  Jamnaryr 1 - Deceaber 31
DA               :  July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
HALl
SECOND NALI-SUD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrover:          Republic of Kali
*        Beneficiaries:      Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Fibres
Textiles (CX'T), Banque Nationale pour le Développement
Agricole (BUDA), and Office pour la Stabilisation et pour
la Régularisation des Prix (OSRP)
Amount:            SDR 24.1 million (US$25.9 million)
Terms:             Standard.
Relending          Borrover to OSRP (us$9.2 million):  grant
Terzs:             Borrover to CMI)T (US$13.4 million):  grant
Borrover to BNDA (US$3.3 million):  3 percent per annum
MDA to participating farmers:  9 to 10 percent per annum.
-roject
Description
and Financing:     The proposed -oject vill build on the experience of the
first hall-Sud project (Credit No. 669-NLI, approved
December 14, 1976). It vill promote integrated development
in southe:n Nali through:  (a) extension, input supply, and
research for cotton, maize, sorghum and cowpeas and for
livestock vaccination and husbandry; (b) smasi-scale
irrigation for rice; (c) production and grading of confec-
tionary groundnuts; (d) support for an agr.eultural credit
bank, especially for farm mechanization loans; (e) training
and equipment for cooperatives; (f) upgradinp. rural tracks;
(g) drilling village vells; an, (h) strengtVening priamry
health care. At the same time, the project vill help
Government carry out price, tax and institutional reforms
in the cotton sector, including: (a) a higher producer
price for cotton; (b) smaller input subsidies; and (c) nev
marketing and tax arrangements to help ensure an adequate
cash flow in the cotton sector.
Project risk is greatest for the tax and instLtutional
reforms designed to safeguard gross cotton export revenues
for productive purposes in the cotton sector, especially
improved farmer price incentives and full coverage of
recurrent costs. These reforms may not be fully imple-
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
thek official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ji -
mented because they involve some short-term sacrifice of
tax revenue and significant shifts of resources within
Government. Ta minimize this risk, financing for non-
incremental recurrent costs, vhich is intended to reduce
the public finance cost of these reforms, vill be disbarsed
in annual tranches based on specific performance.
Estinated Project Costs (including taxes and duties of US$4.6 million):
Local    Foreign   Total
--    US$ million     -
Cotton and Cereals Extension and Research        3.5      7.3      10.8
Groundnut Development                            0.7      0.7       1.4
Rice Development                                 0.7      2.1       2.8
Livestock Development                            0.2      0.8       1.0
Agricultural Eqyipment, Oxen, and                7.2      9.5      16.7
Rock Phosphates i/
Cooperative Development and Training             2.5      2.7       5.2
Rural Track Improvement                          1.0      2.1       3.1
Vater Supply                                     1.1      4.4       5.5
Primary Health Care                              0.6      0.7       1.3
Project Management                               1.0      3.0       4.0
Fertilizers and Pesticides                        -      16.2      16.2
(non-incremental financing)
Base Costs                                      18.5     49.5      68.0
Physical Contingencies                           0.6      1.2       1.8
Price Contingencies                              5.0      9.2      14.2
Total Project Costs                             24.1     59.9      84.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                    0.3      25.6      25.9
IFAD                                   0.5      12.5      13.0
CCCE                                     -      11.3      11.3
FAC                                      -       4.2       4.2
France (Ninistry of Foreign Affairs)    -        2.2       2.2
Netherlands                              -       4.1       4.1
Government, Farmers and B EDA.         23.3       -       23.3
TOTAL                            24.1      59.9      84.0
1V eddium-term credit.



- iii -
Estimated Diabursement
FY84    FY85   FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90
-- ---_------US$ million----------
Annual               3.5     4.9      5.1     4.5     4.5      2.5    0.9
Cumulative          3.5      8.4    13.5    18.0    22.5    25.0   25.9
Economic Rate of Return: 23 percent
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4064-NLI, dated September 13, 1983.
Map.:  IBRD 16520



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPNENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KALI
FOR A SECOND MALI-SUD RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the folloving report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment vredit of SDR 24.1 million (US$25.9 millioz. equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Second Mali-Sud Rural
Development Project. The French government vill contribute US$17.7 million
equivalent (comprising a loan from the Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economi-
que (CCCE) and grants from the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the
Ninistry of Foreign Affairs). The loan is expected to be on terms of 2.0
percent interest per year, vith repayment over 20 years, folloving a 10 year
grace period at 1.5 percent interest per year. The Dutch government vill
contribute US$4.1 million equivalent as a grant. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IPAD) vill contribute a loan of US$13.0 million
equivalent on standard terms of 1 percent interest per year vith repayment
over 40 years, folloving a 10-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMN
2.       Two reports entitled 'Economic Nemorandum on Nali' (3200-MLI) and
"Nali-Special Economic Study--Plamning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan"
(3333-NLI) vere distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981. The
folloving paragraphs are based on these reports and the findings of recent
Vorld Bank and IMF economic missions. Annex I gives country data.
Economic Resources and Constraints
3.       Kali has a population of over 7 million inhabitants, in an area of
1.24 million square kilometers in the middle of sub-Saharan West Africa. In
1982, GNP per capita vas only US$180. By almost any measure, Mali is one of
the least developed countries in the vorld, vith a subsistence-oriented econ-
omy (85 percent of the population depends on the primary sector), dependence
on a few commodity exports, an extremely lov rate of domestic savings (minus
2.7 percent of GDP in 1982), a high population grovth rate (2.8 percent), a
loy level of education (less than 10 percent adult literacy and a 27 percent
primary enrollment rate), and difficult living conditions that give a life
expectancy at birth of only 45 years.
4.       Poor physical and underdeveloped human resources, as well as inade-
quiqte economic and social infrastructure, constrain economic growth in Mali in
the short and medium term. Potential for agricultural production is limited
by uncertain rainfall, fragile soils prone to exhaustion alnd erosion, and low-
yielding, traditional crop and livestock technologies vith little scope for
intensification. Mineral and energy resources are limited and difficult to



exploit.  Euman resources are underdeveloped, in part because access to basic
amenities like clean water, better health care, and educational opportunities
remains quite limited. There are shortages of skilled workers and experienced
managers. Transportation and communication are extremely expensive by world
standards, because Nali is landlocked and internal distances are vast. The
above factors result in low incomes, samall domestic markets, and limited
potential for industrial development. Finally, Mali is a small open economy,
vith trade concentrated in a few commodities. Imports and exports together
amount to more than half of GDP. Cotton and livestock comprise four-fifthe of
exports, and petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of imports. Thus, the
country is extremely vulnerable to changes in world prices and declining terme
of trade.
5.       Although economic development will be difficult in the short and
medium term, Mali has economic potential that can be developed over the long
term. Nalian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa. Rainfed
maize production could be significantly expanded in the south. Kali has more
irrigated rice land than any other Sahelian country, as vell as the largeat
physical scope for expanding irrigation. Hyaroelectric generating potential
on the Niger and Senegal rivers is significant. Although mineral resources
remain largely unexplored and unexploited (except for gold), they may offer
longer-term opportunities.
Economic Performance 1960-82
6.       The Nalian Government has attempted since independence to promote
economic growth while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption
from very low levels. During 1960-82, annual growth of GNP per capita
averaged 1.1 percent in constant prices, although annual variations were large.
The economie structure has shifted as the agricultural sector has become le9s
important while the services sector has become more so. Although this tend-
ency is normal for developing econoxies, in Mali it also refleots the effect
of policies that have shifted resources to the urban sector and to public
consumption. At the same time, the industrial sector has stagnated despite
governient effcrts to create a modern industrial base. Because of drought and
declining terms of trade, as we'l as continuing mistakes in economic manage-
ment and poor allocation of public resources, there have been since indepen-
dence consistently large and worsening imbalances in public finances and on
foreign accounts, vith declining domestie savings and growing foreign indebt-
edness. While economic and social objectives have been partially achieved,
the process has led to severe financial and economie disequilibria that have
been sustained only by dependence on foreign borrowing and the accumulation of
arrears.
7.       Mali's economic history can be divided into four periods (1960-67,
1967-74, 1974-80, and 1980-82) based roughly on changes in economic and poli-
tical conditions. The changes in economic and financial structure during
these four periuds are indicated in the folloving tabulation:



-3-
1960    1967    1974    1980    1982 (est)
GDP (US$ millions, current)            273      241     414   1,325   1,028
Agriculture (percent CDP)            55       50      35      42       43
Industry (percent GDP)               10       13      16      10       10
Services (percent GDP)               35       37      49      48       47
Terms of trade index                   100       73      58      64       57
Gross domestic savings (percent GDP)  9.5       1.3   -19.2    -3.6    -2.7
Budget deficit (percent GDP)            ..      5.3     3.5     4.0      1.5
Resource gap (percent GDP)              -4      -16     -33     -20      -20
Net foreign assets (US$ millions)        2 1/  -56    -139    -279    -235
Long-term foreign debt (US$ millions)  ..       269     441     853   1,260
Constant GNP growth rate
(percent p.a.) 2/                     ..     3.4      2.5     8.2     0.4
These figures (as vell as the economic indicators in Annex I) illustrate some
of the major trends in the Malian economy.
8.       Post-independence, 1960-67.  The firet post-colonial government
undertook a major program of modernization that included an independent mone-
tary system, an ambitious five-year development plan, a program of industria-
lization based on state enterprises, and a welfare orientation intended to
keep prices down and to assure consumera an adequate supply of basic commodi-
ties. During this period, GDP growth vas high in part because of favorable
climatic conditions, but public pricing and investment policies created finan-
cial imbh'lances that could not be sustained. Government budgetary deficits
often exceeded 5 percent of GDP. By 1967 the resource gap had quadrupled (as
a percent of GDP), net foreign assets had turned negative, and the debt
service ratio had risen to 19 percent. The economic crisis led to the signa-
ture of monetary accords vith France in early 1967, followed by a 50 percent
devaluation in mid-1967 and reintegration vith the franc zone in early 1968.
At that time, the French Treasury opened an Operations Account for Kali to
provide overdraft facilities to support the convertibility of the Kali franc.
9.       Bconomic Reform, the Sahelian Drought, and the Energy Crisis,
1967-74.  In late 1968, a new government launched an ambitious but pragmatic
reform program that proposed to increase official commodity prices and liber-
alize private trade--especially in cereals. But the shock of the severe
Sahelian drought (196t)-73), followed by a quintupling of petroleum prices
during 1972-74, caused economic performance during 1967-74 to be poor, leading
to a decline in the primary sector output and real per capita income. These
shocks also prevented the new government from carrying out reformas, and
economic jolicies remained inadequate. For example, low official prices and
restrictive marketing regulations discouraged agricultural production and led
to increased food imports. Recourse to bank credit to finance the mounting
losses of state enterprises led to increased external debt. By 1974, the
1/   1962.
2/   Rate is for the period that preceeds the year under which the figure
is given.



- 4 -
economic imbalances--already large 7years earlier--had either deteriorated
or not improved. Domestic dissaving vas greater, net foreign assets had
fallen by over 100 percent, and public external debt more than doubled. The
resource gap vas also larger although this reflects partly the large inflow of
foreign aid to sustain consumption after the 1968-73 drought.
10.      Uneven recovery, 1974-80.  Compared to the drought yeara, the sub-
sequent period vas favored by generally better weather and more foreign aid.
There vas more rapid growth of GDP, led by agriculture recovering from the
drought. But the severe disequilibria in public finances and external
accounts inherited from earlier perioda vere not corrected. Inflation
increased. Domestic dissavings and the resource gap remained high. The need
to finance increasingly large Government Treasury deficits and groving losses
in state enterprises caused short-term foreign liabilities to double. Bor-
rowings to finance the 1974-78 Development Plan caused external long-term
public debt to double as vell. Despite a few abortive efforts late in the
period, the Goverment did not develop and carry out reforms. Continuing
external shocks, like a second jump in petroleum prices, hampered reform
efforts, but the availability of-substantial foreign resources also made the
imbalances more manageable and relieved some of the pressures to change
policies.
11.      New orientations, 1980-82.  Faced vith both worsening financial
disequilibria and a more restrictive central bank credit policy, the Malian
Government at the end of 1980 requested technical and financial assistance
from both the Bank and the IMF to help it formulate and carry out a program of
economic reform and adjustment. IDA responded to this request with a US$10.4
million Economic Management and Training (ENT) project (Credit No. 1307-MLI).
The first assistance was in the field by mid-1981 under Project Preparation
Facility financing, and the project was approved in December 1982. The IMF
prepared a one-year Standby Program, which vas approved for SDR 30.4 million
in May 1982, and a second, 18-month Standby Program is under negotiation. In
conjunction with this assistance, the Government has carried out numerous
reforms in the areas of public finances, government employment, education,
agriculture, and state enterprises.
12.      In public finances, Governnent has more than halved the budget
deficit, vhile also significantly reducing arrears, by increasing receipts
faster than expenditures.  Regarding public employnent, Governnent has reduced
recruitments and stopped automatic hiring of graduates. The education budget-
has been reallocated in favor of basic education. In agriculture, Government
has both liberalized markets for coarse grains and groundnuts and substan-
tially increased official producer prices. Distortions in retail grains
markets have been reduced, as have the financial losses of the state marketing
board. The record for state enterprises is less positive, in part because of
difficulties in reducing excess employment, but the Governuent is exploring
major restructuring options.



-5-
Development Policies
13.      1981-85 Development Plan.  This Plan continues to give priority: to
vater development for the rural population, livestock, and irrigation; to
agricultural and livesteck production for achieving food self-sufficiency, for
supplying an expanded agro-indastrial sector, and for increasins commodity
exports; to energy development; and to conservation of natural resources--
especially fores ts and pas tures. More importantly, the new Plan emphaeizes
for the first time the need for policy reforms to re-establish fundamental
financial and economic equilibria, notably by balancing the government budget,
reducing the balance of payments deficit, reducing the losses of the etate
enterprises, reorienting education, controlling recruitment for the Civil
Service, and increasing local private participation in investments. Develop-
ment expendituras proposed by the nev Plan are estimated at US$2.2 billion of
which US$1.7 billion would be required during the five-year planning period.
Foreign sources vill be expected to provide over 85 percent of the financing.
At the end of 1982, the Governnent hosted, with UNDP assistance, a Donors
Roundtable Conference to solicit firm donor commitments fur Plan financing.
Although unsuccessful as a pledging session, the Conference gave the Govern-
ment a forum to demonstrate its new receptivity to greater aid coordination
and to reiterate its request for non-incremental recurrent cost financing,
estimated at about US$300 million per year to help support policy reforme.
14.      Although the stated objectives of the Plan foeus fairly vell on the
major constraints to economic development in Nali, the link between investment
and objectives is veak.  The document is essentially a cataloging of projects
rather than allocation plan for scarce domestic and foreign resources. As a
result, planned investments often appear to be too capital-intensive, unduly
focused on the secondary sector, and oriented tovards new projects rather than
rehabilitation of existing assets. The Plan is also overly ambitious; the
implied annual investment level is about 50 percent greater than the planned
level for the 1974-80 period, which vas itself only half realized. Implemen-
tation already appears to be far behind schedule. As in the past, the poor
performance and delays are caused by insufficient project preparation, poor
project management, inadequate Government counterpart financing, and poor
supporting policies, as vell as unrealistic expectations. These problems are
likely to persist, although the Government is increasingly open to a dialogue
vith IDA and the IMF on improved resource allocation and investment budgeting.
15.      Foreign Aid.  Foreign aid finances practically all public investment
in Mali and is therefore ritical for promoting future growth. More than half
of this aid is in the form of grants, and almost all the rest is loaned on
highly concessional terms by official aid agencies. Multilateral agencies
provide about two-fifths of long-term loans. IDA is by far the largest multi-
lateral lender, accounting for over half the multilateral loans and for
19 percent of total debt committed and outstanding at the end of 1982.  Long-
term external public debt (about three-fourths of which is disbursed) has
increased substantially over the last 10 years, although debt levele per
capita and as a share of GQP have declined, reflecting the increase in offi-
cial grant aid and continued recourse to short-term liabilities drawn on the
Operations Account. Actual debt service payments on long-term debt have been
quite modest in the past, and in 1980-81 the debt-se:vice ratio vas lover than



in the late 1960s and the early 1970.. The debt-service ratio could rise
significantly in the mid to late 1980., but the Government i. in the process
of rescheduling several loans. It is expected that this and other measures
(converting loans to grants and obtaining special balance of payment
financing) vill keep the debt-service ratio vithin manageable proportions.
PART Il - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIJNS IN MALI
16.      The proposed cred-t vould be the Association's twenty-ninth credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which vould bring
total commitments of IDA funde to US$281.8 million equivalent.  Of the twenty-
eight operations already approved. eleven have been for agriculture and
related industries, eight for transport, two for education, two for telecom-
munications, one each for small-Bcale industries, urban development, petroleum
exploration promotion, power and vater supply, and technical assistance.
Transportation and agriculture represent the largest share of pant commit-
ments, each accounting for 31 percent of total commitments. In addition, the
International Finance Corporation has made two investments for a total of
US$3.2 million, one in a company manufacturing bleach and plastic products and
the other in a company processing sheanut butter for export.
17.      Project implementation in Mali je satisfactory.  Despite difficulties
and delays caused by the shortage of Governuent counterpart financing, the
disbursement profile through 1981 was slightly more rapid for Mali than for
other West Africs countries and all IDA recipients. More importantly, project
performance appears to be improving in recent years, pari passu vith increased
Government commitment to economic dialogue and policy reform.
18.      Taking account of Nali's constraints and potential, the Bank Group's
objectives in Mali are to help improve the country'e economic policies, to
finance productive investments, and to help develop institutions that can
implement policies and projecte effectively. The strategy for achieving these
objectives has evolved from merely financing investments, to linking invest-
ments with related policy reforms, to foeusing more directly on policies and
institutions. The scope and pace of IDA's program depends in part on an on-
going assessment of the Government's economic management, particularly the
villingness and ability of the Government to address policy issues and to
change policies as needed. IDA can assist by helping design and implement
policy reforms and by providing non-incremental recurrent financing to help
compensate for possible budgetary losses caused by these reforms.  Concurrent
vith policy reforms, IDA can help finance sound productive investments,
including a high percentage of local cost expenditures to improve project
implementation.
'9.      Given Mali's improving image of economic management, IDA lending is
increasingly foeused on policy and institutional reform, both in free-standing
projects and in conjunction with productive investments. If results continiae
to be positive, it may be possible to consider future program-type lending at
the sector or national level.  In the meantime, the dialogue will be sustain±sl
throu,g>h the traditional channel of projects, through the EXT project, through



- 7 -
the IMF programs, and through intensified economia and sector vork. ProjectB
are aurrently under preparation for rural water and health development, with
Board presentations scheduled for November and December 1983, respectively. A
third education project snd a third Mopti area development project are alo
boing prepared.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
20.      The rural population depende for its food supply on the vetter
Sudano-Sahelian and Cuinean zones and on the irrigated lands of the central
delta of the Niger river. The vaut Saharan zone in the north and east is
almost uninhabited. Most farm families cultivate 4-5 hectares (ha), vith
claims on additional areas in fallow. Tillage with animal traction ie more
widespread in Mali than any other Sahelian country. Apart from some domestic
rock phosphate, all inorganie fertilizers are imported, with the vast majority
used on cotton in rotation with cereals. The country's huge livestock
resources constitute the major store of wealth and income in rural areas.
21.      An estimated two million ha are cultivated of which 10 percent is
lrrigated. Cotton and groundnuts, the two major rainfed export crops, have
accounted for about 100,000 and 150,000 ha, respectively. Apart from 50,000-
100,000 ha of maize, the overwhelming share of rainfed crop area is sown to
sorghum and millet, accounting for about 1.4 million ha. Almost all the
irrigated land is planted in rice.
Agricultural Strategy in Kali
22.      The 1974-78 and 1981-85 Development Plans  have both given priority
to investments designed to prevent a recurrence of the food shortages experi-
onced in the 1963-73 drought; and over 80 percent of expenditure on fooderops
under the 1974-78 Plan went to irrigated rice. To promote agricultural
development, the Government has established 26 rural development agencies
(Opérations de Développement Rural) which are generally charged vith providing
extension services, distributi'ig inputs, marketing crops and helping vith
functional literacy programs, rural health develivery, and village water
development. Encouraged by the buoyant world prices of the mid-1970s, Nali
significantly expanded its industrial processing capacity fo' cotton liut,
cottonseed oil, and groundnut oil during the late 1970s.  U:zil 1981, the
government maintained a comprehensive system of quantity and price controls on
trade in foodgrains, although most trade in coarse grains vas in private
hands.
23.      Until recently, state intervention in agriculture probably restricted
production more than encouraged it. Low official prices and controlled trade
have tended to dis courage production and distribution. Investment in irri-
gated rice resulted in the relative neglect of areas in the south vith ade-
quate rainfall where intensive rainfed cereals cultivation is relatively
secure and low cost. Investments in agro-based export industries have been
far lesa profitable than expected because of stagnating world markets, poor
management of working capital and high transport costs.  Overcapacity and



- 8 -
overstaffing in nome enterprises, such as oil mills, umdermine finzincial
viability. The rural developient agencies mostly furnish extension services
and are unlikely to be comzurcial3y viable, and their rapid expansion has
added to the neverw probleus of Goverameut deficits and commercial arrears.
Finally, the proceass of negotiating the official price schedules, originally
intended to improve budgetary controls, has become an administratively
burdensome transfer price sstem, uhich depresses producer incentives, veakens
cost control at all intermediary stages, and usually results in financial
losses for producing entities.
24.      Najor poliey revisions in the rural sector, and particularly the
scope uf State intervention, vere decided froa late 1980 onwards. Many were
in the context of the firat IXF Standby program and saoe are being carried out
vith IDA-financed technical assistance. Some came about as a result of policy
dialogie initiated by a group of major food-aid donors in which IDA partici-
pates. Despite these nev directions, there kas been a reluctance to increase
administered producer prices of rice and cotton in line vith border pari-
ties. For cotton especially, the Government's need to extract revenue from
exports conflicts vith the need to maintain and increase cotton production by
raising producer incentives sad paying full operating costa of the cottou
development agency. In the context of this project, the Government has agreed
to correct these distortions in the cotton sector.
The Mali-Sud Region and the Piret Kali-and Project
25.      The Kali-Sud region covers virtually all areas south of the Niger
River and vest of Mopti, vith 1.5 million inhabitants and some 100,000 farm
families. Average amnual rainfali incresses from 800 mm in the north to 1,500
ma in the extreme south. Arable lands consist mainly of light sandy loas,
suitable for rainfed cotton, coar3e grains, covpeas snd groundnuts.
26.      The Compagnie Inlienne pour le Développement des Textiles (CNDT) has
successfully promoted cotton in rotation vith rainfed cereals (maize, sorghum,
and millet). The area under cotton greo steadily in the 1960s and 1970s, vith
a retraction during the vorst years of the Sahelian drought (1972-73),
reaching a peak in 1979/80 at 119,000 ha. The urea under improved cereal
production (better seeds and husbandry) has oa-adrupled betieen 1975 and 1980,
and maize production increased tenfold.  T*ese increases vere facilitated by
an efficient input distribution and extension system, which reaches 86 percent
of the region's farus, distributes tvo-thirds of total fertilizer and insecti-
cides used in Mali and aggressively promotes sni-al-porered tillage (60 per-
cent of project area farmas vere equipped by 1981). Agricultural credit has so
far been provided mainly through CNDT, and the reimbursement rate has never
been lover than 95 percent for short-term loans and 92 percent for mediu=-term
loans. Cash revenue earned from cotton is more dependable than from cereals,
and it thus increases farmers' debt capacity to invest in the-r farms.
27.      The objectives of the first Nali-Sud Rural Development project
(Cr. 669-.LI, approved December, 1976) vere to expand cotton, rice, maize, and
kenaf production by providing project farmers vith extension services, seed
multiplication facilities, seRsonal and medium-term credit and applied
research. The project expanded processing facilities for cotton, kenaf and



rice, extended the health program in the area, and trained CNDT staff, farmers
and blacksmiths. The recalculated economic r-.te of return (CRR) for the
project exceeds 30 percent despite a recent dror in cotton production, main.y
because aggregate maize production far exceeded appraisal estimates. Najor
project benefits not foreseen at appraisal accrue from a small but steady
increase in average millet/sorghum yîelds traceable largely to t1e after-
effects of cotton fertilizers and improvements in basic agronomie tech-
niques.  Improved rice production has declined, partly because of inadequate
design and maintenance of a few medium-size irrigation schemes. CMDT has
stopped active promotion of kenaf cultivation because depressed vorld prices
made domestic production unprofitable.
28.      A major feature of the project has been the functional literacy
training program aimed for leaders of cooperatives (Associations Villageoises,
or AVs), some 400 of vhich have been created since 1975 i-th support from
CHDT. These groups have gradually assumed responsibility for collecting and
weighing the cotton crop, with remuneration from CMDT. Nany cooperatives also
earn income from cereals sales and levies on their members, vhich is used to
finance both economic and social investments. The health component consiste,!
of training and transport for village health vorkers and traditional midvivcs.
29.      Cotton production has declined in 1980/81 and 1981/82 to 102,OOC ha
and 79 000 ha, respectively. Poor rainfall in 1980 and 1981 partly accounts
for this setback, but it is also related to the domestic price structure.
Although the Government raised the official price for seed cotton by 75 per-
cent between 1977 and 1981, which vas over tuice the rate of increase in vorld
prices, it raised input prices by 280 percent during the same period. As a
result, farmers' exposure to cash risks, as measured by the ratio of cash
costs to the value of cotton sold, increased considerably, causing a drop in
both the number of farmers groving cotton and the average acréage of cotton
per farm. The consequent fall in outout'has reduced the utilization of ChDT's
capacity from 90 to only 60 percent, eausing its operating costs per ton of
cotton ta inc-ease substantially. As a result, the margin to increase cotton
prices or to subsidize input costs has dvindled, making it difficult for the
Governnent to improve producer incentives even though producers are paid only
about two-thirds of the export parity price. In 1982/83, the last year of the
project, production began to recover, and about 105,000 tons were harvested,
vhich is still 25 percent belou peak output.
Policy and Institut-.onal Issues
30.      Cotton revenues are allocated according to an official cost structure
(barème) established at harvest, before processing ccsts and export prices are
knonn. There are several major actors competing for cotton revenues, includ-
ing the CMDT, the Société Malienne d'Importation et d'Exportation (SOMIEX),
Office pour la Stabilisation et pour la R5gularisation des Prix (OSRP), the
external debt agency (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement) and the Treasury.
Farmers are not directly represented. CMDT receives a fixed transfer price
per ton to cover both the cotton processing costs as vell as part of its
extension and rural development services, like road maintenance. SONIEX
retains the difference between actual export revenues and costs paid to CNDT,
except for the export tax and debt-service contributions earmarked for the



- 10 -
external debt agency.  OSRF, which receives t'h  bulk of its resoutrces from
taxes on petroleuni imports, is supposed to equilibrate CIDT accounts lf the
allowances under the barème are insufficient zo cover real costs, although it
does not alvays have sufficient funds to do this.  Tne Treasury taps into the
cotton cash flow by taxing SOIOEEX's earnings on cotton exmorts.
31.      The operation of this systemK is unsatisfactory because it threatens
CXDT solvency and licuidity and forces farmers to bear the brunt of adjusting
to price and climate shocks. First, the price-fixing process treats flxed and
variable costs identically, resulting in under-budgeting for costs if output
volume is less than projected.  In addition, legitimate CEDT costs are fre-
quently disallowed to increase SOKEEX's surplus. Second, SOMIEX often uses
gross export receipts to finance other SCXIEX costs, including payment of
taxes oued to the Treasury, before payLng CNDT for cotton already delivered.
Ihird, there is no effective zystem  to stabilize cotton sector revenues in
the face of fluctuating output and prices. As a result, farm revenues are
depressed vhen external shocks have to be accommodated within the barème
system.  There are strong pressures against Lincreasing producer prices when
Government revenue is falling and Der unit operating costs are increasing
because production is declining.
32.      A solution to this difficulty would consist, first, of raising
producer incentives for cotton, which vould increase production and thereby
expand the Government's revenue base and lover CMDT unit operating costs.
Second, the institutional arrangements for fixing prices and channelling cash
flow in the cotton sector 2hould be changed to protect farmer incentives and
the viability of CNDT.  Finally, a financial buffer mechanism should be
established to help stabilize revenues in the future.  The Government has
agreed to this three-point solution, which will be implemented in conjunction
vith the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
33.      The project's objectives and content have been discussed by Govern-
ment, the Association and major cofinanciers (Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
(FAC), Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (CCCE), and the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)) from early 1980. A feasibility
study incorporating the ex-post evaluation of the first project vas prepared
in June 1981 by consultants financed by FAC.  A joint IDA/FAC/CCCE/IFAD
appraisal mission visited Mali in September/October, 1981.  Follow-up missions
discussed the policy reforms and additional financing arrangements in April
and October, 1982. Negotiations vere held in Washington in June 1983 vith a
Government delegation led by the Minister of Agriculture. A Credit and
Project Summary is given at the beginning of this report.  Detailed charac-
teristics off the project are described in Staff Appraisal Report 4064-MLI,
dated September 13, 1983. A supplemental project data sheet is at Annex III.



- I l -
Objectives
34.      The main objectives are:
(a)  to produce more cotton by raising the producer price vhile reducing
both taxes and input subsidies;
(b) to improve the control and use of cotton sector revenues by changing
institutional arrangements for marketing cotton and allocating
revenue from it;
(c)  to protect cotton producer incentives, CMDT's finaucial viability and
government revenues by establishing a fund to buffer temporary
revenue fluctuations caused by declines in either price or output;
(d) to produce more maize, sorghum, millet, covpeas, rice, and livestock
through extension vork and better inputs;
(e) to strengthen applied research for cotton and other crops;
(f3 to promote farmer cooperatives through economic incentives and
training; and
(g) to meet basic needs by improving village vater supplies and health
services.
To achieve these objectives, the project includes both a series of investmezts
comprising the project components and related policy changes.
Project Investments
35.      The project vill promote the production of cotton, coarse grains,
rice, groundnuts, and livestock, vith a focus on better integration of crop
cultivation and livestock husbandry. To eccomplish this, the CKDT extension
system for training farmers, distributing inputs, multiplying seeds and set-
ting up village cooperatives vill be strengthened by upgrading staff and
through vider geographic coverage. Applied research vill be increased for
rock phosphates and farming systems. The project vill also finance medium-
term loans through BNDA for nnimal-drawn agricultural equipment. Farmer
cooperatives vill be supported through a functional literacy program.
Essential infrastructure (dirt tracks and river crossings) vill be reha-
bilitated and maintained. The project vill also finance village vells,
improve primary health care, and continue training ar;isans and blacksmiths.
36.      Project activities to promote cotton and coarse grains production
include extension, input supply, research, medium-term credit and cooperative
development. CMDT has a vell-developed agricultural extension service, vith
each agent reaching about 170 farmers. In addition, CXDT employs a parallel
network of trainers, supervised by the Ninistry of Education, to run the
functional literacy program, especially for cooperative leaders. The project
vill help integrate the two networks, upgrade the quality of the extension



- 12 -
service, and reduce the ratio of agents per farm. -.s cooperatives progres-
sivel: assume more responsibility, it vill be possible to reduce total staff,
althoug.a the ezpanded operations under the project vill increase extension and
training staff by 8 percent.
37.      CKDT vould continue to import and distribute seasonal inputs for
cotton and coarse grains. The total amount of imported chemical fertilizer is
not expected to increase, in part because recommended dosages have been
lovered and in part because of substitution by domestie rock phosphates.
During tne last three years of the project, the extension service vill promo te
rock phosphate use, and 15,000 tons are expected to be sold to farmers. The
project vill aim to increase cotton insecticide treatments from 4 to 5 because
local research has shown that insect damage is the dominant constraint on
cotton yielids. The additional treatments should become less expensive as
farmers switch to ultra-loy-volume (ULV) spraying using pyrethrum-based
insecticides, vhich should also reduce environnental risks. The N'Tarla
research station vill continue to supply cotton foundation seed, and
registered farmers wii produce certified seed under CXDT supervision. The
project vill also support seed production for improved local varieties of
maize, sorghum, millet and cowpeas at the CXDT's maize seed farm. These
seasonal inputs vill continue to be sold for cash and on credit by CNDT, but
under this project prices on credit will be 15 percent more than the cash
price to cover interest, administration and overdue costs borne by CMDT
(Project Agreement (PA), Section 3.04). This nev price structure should
encourage cash sales, thereby reducing the average cost of fertilizers. In
addition to these incremental inputs, the project vill finance non-incremental
input costs in conjunction vith policy reforma (para. 48).
38.      The project also includes some specific measures to promote rice,
groundnut, and livestock production.  For rice, the project vill finance
specirilists to support small-scale rice production efforts and to correct
design and operational difficulties ia the Klela irrigation network. The
project includes funds to rehabilitate this network, but their disbursment is
conditonal on IDA's approval of the feasibility study (Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), Schedule 1).  Regarding grounlnuts, CNDT has recently started
active promotiin of confectionary groundnuts as a replacement for kenaf in the
northern part of the project area. The project vill support this by financing
extension costs, seed multiplication, and storage and other improvements to a
grading plant. A study of market prospects for Malian confectionary ground-
nuts, including hov to lover handling costs, vill be carried out by CMDT no
later than March 31, 1984 and discussed vith IDA no later than June 30, 1984
(PA, Section 3.09); Government vill propose an action plan by September 30,
19B4 to implement recommendations (DCA, Section 4.05). Livestock activities
will be supported through vaccination programs, fodder cultivation, construe-   -
tion tf night corrals, and distribution of minerals and supplementary feeds
manufa.tured from cotton seeds and cake.
39.      The first project financed zultidisciplinary research on cotton and
farming systems.  The second project vill continue both programs but the farm-
ing systems research vill be broadened to make it more representative of the
CXDT area and results will be tested on a larger scale. To establish optimum
rates and methods of rock phosphate applications, the project vill continue
applied research begun under the proceeding project.



- 13 -
40.      Kediun-term loans vill be made through BNDA to individual farrmers for
animal-dra'wn equipment and rock phosphates and to cooperatives for village
equipment and for lending to individual members. Under this project, animal
traction equipment (mainly for land preparation) and draft oxen vill be sold
by CNDT on credit to small farmers vho vere ineligible for credit under the
first project, as experience has indicated that criteria for acceas to credit
under the first project vere too stringent. A study financed under the
project vill e-amine if they can be further relaxed (para. 42).  Equipping
these smaill but efficient farmers vill help expand cotton cultivation. Given
the delayed effect that rock phosphates have on yields, sales will be finauceed
on 2-3 year credit. Under the project, cooperatives vould also be eligible
for the first time to borrow for social infrastructure investments and for
relending to members (para. 43).  Finally, lending for small tractors has been
proposed and funds to import 160 tractors have been included in project
costs. Hovever, importation vould be conditional on the results of a study to
be carried out under the project, and credit terms vould have to be
satisfactory to IDA (para. 42).
41.      Terms and conditions for each type of loan are as follous (PA,
Schedule 2):
Loan Katurity           Ninimua
(Years)           Dovnpayment
Agricultural equipment, and                   4              5 percent in cash
draft oxen (lst unit)
Agricultural equipment, and                   4              20 percent vith
draft oxen (subsequent units)                              at least 5 percent
in cash
Rock phosphate                         3 with up to          none
1 year of grace
Village equipment                            3-7             20 percent with
at least 5 percent
in cash
The Governnent has agreed that the BNDA vill charge an interest rate of 10
percent per year for farners an,d 9 percent per year for cooperatives (DCA,
Section 4.03 (a)). These represent slightly positive real rates of interest,
as inflation has averaged about 9 percent over the last 4 years, and the
Government has agreed on the principle of maintaining positive real rates
and vill reviev the interest rate structure annually vith IDA (DCA, Section
4.03 (b)). The interest rate for cooperatives is one percentage point lover
to encourage them to relend to farmers and to help compensate for their admin-
istration of individual loans. The BNDA rates are net of the 20 percent tax
currently levied on interest payments; if not exonerated, the tax vill be
passed on to borrowers as a higher interest rate (DCA Section 4.03 (a)).



- 14 -
42.      The project will also finance two studies related to medium-term
credit: criteria for access to credit and purchase of tractors. Regarding
access to loans, the study will review eligibility criteria based on minimm
farm size (currently assumed to be 4 ha) and cropping pattern. The study is
to be completed by March 31, 1984 and discussed vith IDA by June 30, 1984 (PA,
Section 3.09 fa) and (b)); a plan of action is to be formulated by September
30, 1984 to implement recommendations (DCA, Section 4.05). In addition,
CZDT's monitoring unit will help BNDA follow a sample of small borrowers over
several years, leading to a further review and possible revision of
eligibility criteria and lending terms.  Regarding tractors, the project vill
finance a study ta review the experience vith the 25 small tractors sold to
larger farmers (more than 25 ha) under the first project and to determine how
best to transfer sales and maintenance to the private sector (uithout the
heavy subsidies in the past). It vill also investigate more closely the
external costs (like land erasion) and benefits of increased tractor use.  The
study is to be completed by Narch 31, 1984, and reviewed with IDA by June 30,
1984. CMDT vill not import more tractors until the results of the study have
been discussed vitl. IDA and Government and IDA has approved lending terms (PA,
Section 3.12 and Schedule 2).
43.      The long-term objective of cooperative development is to transfer
input distribution, marketing and credit recovery to the villagers thenselves,
alleuiating the public recurrent costs borne by Government and CI4DT. During
the project, CMDT vill help establish and support 600 cooperatives through:
(a) functional literacy and accounting training; (b) B'DA credit for invest-
ments in marketing equipment, storage facilities for fertilizers and insecti-
cides, maize shellers, and milling, sheanut butter processing, carpentry and
masonry equipment; (c) management advice through CMDT's extension services;
(d) testing intermediate technology products; and (e) encouraging investments
in social infrastructure (childbirth centers, village wells, village pharma-
cies and bio-gas equipment). The cooperatives vill earn revenue by performing
services for CNDT and BKDA, including marketing cotton, making medium-term
loans, selling fertilizers and insecticides, and recovering seasonal credit.
They vill also receive rebates on cotton sales, lover interest rates from
BNDA, discounts on cash purchases of inputs, and a premium on seasonal loans
collected (PA, Section 3.05).
44.      CMDT maintains about 3,000 km of dirt tracks not registered by the
Public Works Department. Maintenance has deteriorated in recent years because
funding allowed for equipment has been insufficient. The project vill provide
CMDT with additional trucks, graders and construction materials ta rehabili-
tate waterway crossings and to build some 30 km of tracks in new areas.
CMJDT's Civil Engineering Division vill be reinforced through technical assis-
tance. For new tracks and major waterway crossings, a technical review and
inventory satisfactory to IDA is a condition of disbursement (DCA,
Schedule 1).
45.      Other projects have drilled village vells in the northeast and
southwest parts of the project area, but there has been no assistance to the
1,600 villages in the center of the project area where 85 percent of tradi-
tional hand dug vells run dry before the end of March. The project will
finance 400 wells for village water supply and 50 for pastoral use, giving



- 15 -
priority to villages with organized cooperatives and using criteria of hunan
and animal requirements, exis4ing wells, distance to alternative sources and
the village's financial resources. Vells vill only be drilled after the
village cooperative has met the downpayment for the pump. A contractor vill
drill the wells over three years under supervision of a consulting firm
responsible for detailed hydrogeological and geophysical investigations. The
Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie vill be responsible for
supervising both the contractor and the consulting firm under an existing
agreement vith CNDT that is satisfactory to IDA.
46.      The primary health care component vill continue and extend action
started under the first project. Doctors, midvives, nurses and rural health
vorkers vill receive an annual trainer's course given by regional training
teams vith assistance from the Centre d'Etudes Sociales de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest and they will in turn train village health vorkers and birth atten-
dants. The project will finance transport and training equipment and medical
kits for all birth attendants and village health vorkers. A limited range of
drugs vill be available for sale to village pharmacies that have one or more
persons trained in first aid, but they vill have to be replenished through the
existing official state pharmacy netvork.
Policy Changes
47.      Policy changes complementing the project components include:
(a) phased real increases in CGtton producer prices, financed in part by
reducing input subsidies and limiting governaent revenues;
(b) reform of the price-fixing system and institutions by controlled and
audited budgeting, by consolidating most specific taxes on cotton
exports into a single distribution of surplus revenue after all costs
have been covered, by reducing SOMIEX's role to an export agent,
and by earmnarking gross export receipts to a Cotton Account managed
by the OSRP; and
(c) capitalization of a cotton Guarantee Fund to buffer interannual
variations in net cotton revenues.
In conjunction vith these reforms, IDA vill finance non-incremental costs of
fertilizers and pesticides, proceeds from which vill be used to restore CMDT's
vorking capital, to help compensate the Treasury for revenue shortfalls
occasioned by the price and tax changes, and to set up a buffer fund. This
programmatic-type lending vill thus support the institutioual and price
reforms, and diabursements for these non-incremental costs will be linked to
the Governnent's progress in effecting specific reforms (paragraph 58).
48.      The increase in producer incentives vill be measured by farmer' cash
cost coefficient, which is the percentage of cash outlays for cotton cultiva-
tion compared to expeuted gross revenues at official prices. The target would
be to maintain this coefficient below 30 percent throughout the project,
compared to over 37 percent now. At the same time, the total value of input
subsidies, measured as a percentage of full cost to farmers, would be reduced



- 16 -
from the present 22 percent to about 10 percent by 1987 and would be elimi-
nated by the end of the project (1988 and later).  To respect these tvo
targets, the government vill probably be obliged to raise the official produ-
cer price for seed cotton by an estimated 50 percent in real terms during the
next 5 years.  Government has agreed to declare, by April 30th of each year,
cotton output and input prices that meet these subsidy and cash cost coeffi-
cient targets (DCA, Section 5.02 (a)). >!eeting these targets is a condition
of disbursement of funds for non-incremental recurrent input costs (DCA,
Schedule 1). The targets vill be reviewed annually by IDA and Government and
adju3ted if and vhen vorld market conditions are out of line vith the
program's original forecasts (DCA, Section 5.02 (b)).
49.      This increase in net income of cotton farmers, coupled vith project
extension efforts, is expected to lead to additional cotton acreage. A small
increase in yields is also expected because the lover cash cost coefficient
should encourage more intensive input use, despite higher input prices. The
expected increase in output from higher acreage and yields vill also lover
real processing costs of CNDT by increasing the utilization of ginning and
transport capacity. By the end of the project, farmers' share of gross cotton
revenues vill be raised from about 38 percent to 50 percent; processing and
transport costs vill be reduced from 47 percent to 40 percent; Government's
share (taxes on inputs and cotton plus net surplus after all other costs) vill
decline from 15 percent to 10 percent but remain the same in total value in
constant NF as both vorld prices and output increase.
50.      Institutional arrangements for cotton exports and sales vill be
similar to those in the past, e-:cept that OSRP, not SOMIEX, vill control
cotton export revenues. All coe-ton export receipts vill be deposited in a
special Cotton Account to be opened at the Development Bank of Kali (BDM) by
OSRP. Opening this account is d condition of credit effectivenesa (DCA
Section 7.01 (d)). OSRP vill manage the distribution of funds from this
account to the various actors in the sector. SOMIEX will continue to act as
export agent, but it vill be reimbursed only for variable costs incurred as
vell as paid a fixed commission to cover overhead costs. OSRP vill pay
earmarked debt service charges to the external debt agency and a pro rata
share of budgeted costs to CNDT and SOMIEX out of export receipts as they are
received. Any surplus above the audited costs of CNDT and SOKIEX vill be used
first to replenish a Guarantee Fund if necessary (see para. 51), vith the
remainder being available to the Treasury. Although the project cannot
guarantee a minimum Government revenue, it is designed to help maintain it at
past levels. To help Government respect its financial obligations to the
sector, CMDT costs vill be defined to include not only variable production
costs but also recurrent costs of the first project's investments, Govern-
ment's counterpart contribution for this second project, taxes on project
investments, provisions for debt service as stipulated under the first
project, and contributions to the depreciation fund for plant and equipment
owned by Government but operated by CNDT. Furthermore, te ensure that taxes
levied directly on cotton exports do not divert revenues to other uses before
they can be deposited in the Cotton Account, the Government has agreed to
maintain the export tax earmarked for the external debt agency at 3 percent
and to exonerate cotton from all other export taxes. These arrangements, for
which guidelines have been mutually agreed, vill be formalized in a Cotton



- 17 -
Account Management Agreement between Government, CKDT, SOMIEk and OSRP;
execution of this Agreement is a condition of credit effectiveness (DCA,
Section 7.01(e)). To assist the OSRP in implemensing these arrangements, a
Co-manager vith joint signature power over the Cotton Account vill be
internationally recruited under the project, and to strengthen CKDT's finan-
cial management, a training specialist in accounting and financ_ l manxapement
vill also be recruited; employment of these specialests is a condition of
credit effeciiveness (DCA, Section 7.01 (f) and (i)). Finally, to ensure that
OSRP pays only clearly identified costs, the project vill finance both a study
of CMDT's cost structure and modifications ta CMDT's accounting system to
separate cotton activities from other operations (like cooperative devel-
opment) and to identify fixed and variable costs. CNDT vill carry out the
study by March 31, 1984 and discusa it vith IDA by June 30, 1984 (PA, Section
3.09 (a) and (b)); Government vill prepare an action plan by September 30,
1984, to implement recommendations (DCA, Section 4.05).
51.      To help insure against possible temporary drops in output or prices
in the future, the -roject vill establish a Cotton Guarantee Fund. The OSRP
vill be responsible for managing the Fund, vhich will be kept in an account to
be opened at the Central Bank of Nali (BCN) by OSRP.  The Co-manager to be
recruited by OSRP (para. 50) will share joint signature pover orer the Guaran-
tee Fund vith the OSRF General Nanager. Deposits into the Fund, up to a maxi-
mum balance of NF5.5 billion (US$7.7 million), will be made from the balance
remaining in the Cotton Account after all year-end adjustments against the
actual audited costs of SOMIEX and CNDT. The Government has also agreed to
earmark to the Guarantee Fund STABEX receipts received from the European
Economic Community for shortfalls in cotton export earnings (DCA Section 5.03
(b)). The Fund ceiling has been calculated so that the full cash costs due to
CMDT and SOMIEX can be paid if there is a shortfall of output or prices as
severe as any in recent years. To ensure adequate liquidity for cotton opera-
tions, the Government has agreed to maintain the quarterly balance of the Fund
at not less than MF2.0 billion (US$2.8 million), beginning at the end of the
second quarter 1984 <DCA Section 5.03 (a)). Execution of a Cotton Guarantee
Fund Agreement between BCO and OSRP, based on guidelines already agreed vith
IDA, and opening the account for the Fund are conditions of credit effective-
ness (DCA Section 7.01 (d) and (j)).
Project costs and financing
52.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$84.0 million,
including identifiable taxes and duties (US$4.6 million), of which 71 percent
(Us$59.9 million) vould be expenditures in foreign exchange. Base costs
reflect mid-1983 prices. Total contingencies are US$16.0 million, or 19 per-
cent of total project costs. The allovance for expected price increases dur-
ing the expected disbursement period of the project is based on projected
inflation rates of 8.0 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7.0 percent in
1985, 6.5 percent in 1986, and 6.0 percent in 1987. Local and foreign infla-
tion rates are assumed to be equalized by compensating exchange rate adjust-
ments. No allowance for physical contingencies is made for fertilizers and
medium-term loans, since the physical quantities are only indicative, or for
staff, vehicles and equipment, since the physical quantities are clearly



- 18 -
established. For all other investments and operating costs, the allowance is
estimated at 15 percent of base nosts. Project costs are summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary.
53.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 24.1 million (us$ 25.9 million) will
finance 33 percent of total project costs net of taxes and 43 percent of
external financing required. Other donors have committed the remaining
external financing needed, in the following amounts: French Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, US$2.2 million; the Netherlands, US$4.1 million; FAC, US$4.2
million; CCCE, US$11.3 million; and IFAD, US$13.0 million of -which 0.5 is for
local cost).  Of the total external financing of US$60.7 million, US$35.2
million will be under joint financing and US$25.5 million under parallel
financing, in which IDA shares vill be US$12.6 million and US$13.3 million,
respectively. The Government will finance taxes, the track maintenance
component and all incremental local staff, for a total of US$9.1 million or
11 percent of estimated total project costs. BNDA will finance its local
operating costs including taxes, amounting to US$2.7 million. Beneficiaries
will contribute US$11.5 million (mainly for loan down payments and repayments)
or 14 percent of estimated total project costs. Together, the Government,
BNDA, and beneficaries will finance 97 percent of estimated local costs. The
Government will lend US$2.8 million equivalent of the IDA credit to BNDA at
3 percent, repayable in 8 years. The balance of the proceeds of the credit
vill be passed to CMDT and OSRP in grant form. Execution of the Subsidiary
Loan and Grant Agreements is a condition of credit effectiveness (DCA, Section
7.01(b) and (c)). Meeting conditions precedent to the first disbursements by
ail donors is alsa a condition of credit effectiveness (DCA, Section 7.01(a)
and (g)).
54.      Under the project, IDA vill finance internationally recruited experts
and consultants for an estimated total cost of US$2.0 million before contin-
gencies. The average vork-month cost for foreign experts and consultants is
estimated to be about US$10,000, which includes salaries and benefits, costs,
fees, international travel and local subsistence expenses.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.      Fertilizers and pesticides, worth US$12.0 million, will be procured
by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance vith IDA guidelines.
Wells will be drilled under one contract amounting to us$5.9 million inclading
contingencies that is to be avarded by ICB but with a 7.5 percent preference
for qualifying domestic contractors. Other construction and civil works
totaling US$6.3 million consist of scattered minor works and buildings, for
which the estimated size of each contract vill be less than US$500,000; these
contracts will be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures, vith
foreign bidders having the right to participate. Goods, vehicles and equip-
ment worth US$1.8 million vill normally be procured by ICB, and qualifying
domestic manufacturers vill receive a preference of 15 percent or the relevant
import duty, whichever is lover. Small lots worth less than $100,000 for
vehicles and miscellaneous equipment and furniture, totaling US$1.8 million,
will be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
IDA. Agricultural equipment for the medium-term credit program (worth US$18.1
million) will be procured through acceptable prudent shopping procedures as it
involves numerous small deliveries over the project period.  For contracts
exceeding US$150,000, IDA will retain the right of prior review of procurement



- 19 -
documents and contracte, covering about 48 percent of the total estimated
value of civil works, 100 percent of fertilizers and pesticides, and 50
percent of vehicles and equipment.  Experts and specialists for CNDT vill be
prorided by the Compagnie Francaise pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
under the terms of its management agreement vith ClDT; other internationally-
recruited experts and consultants vill be hired directly under IDA guidelines.
56.      The Credit of US$25.9 million vill be diaburued as follove:
(1) Civil Works (US$3.0 million) - 36 percent of foreign expenditures;
and 32 percent of local expenditures, allocated to:
(a)  BNDA buildings (US$0.1 million), and
(b)  Other civil  'orks (US$2.9 million);
(2) Vehicles and Equipuent (US$0.9 million) - 36 percent of foreign
expenditures and 32 percent of local expenditures, allocated to:
(a) Vehicles and equipment for BNDA (US$0.1 million); and
(b) Other vehicles and equipment (US$0.8 million);
(3) Medium-term Loans (US$3.4 million maximum) - 36 percent of loans
extended to project farmers, villages and cooperatives;
(4)  Consultants'and Experts' Services (US$2.3 million), allocated for:
(a)  fertilizer research and annual audits of CNDT (US$0.8
million): 100 percent of total expenditures;
(b)  technical assistance to ana annual audits of OSRP (US$0.4
million) : 100 percent of total expenditures, and
(c)  other services (US$1.1 million) - 36 percent of total
expenditures;
(5)  CMDT Operating Costs except salaries (US$1.3 milion) - 32 percent of
total expenditures;
(6) Training Fellovehips (US$0.7 million) - 36 percent of total
expenditures;
(7) Fertilizers and Insecticides (US$12.0 million maximum) - 100 percent
of foreign expenditures;
(8)  Initial Deposit to Special Account (US$0.5 million);
(9)  Refunding of Advance under Project Preparation Facility (US$0.1
million); and
(10) Unallocated (US$1.7 million).



- 20 -
57.      Diabursements are to be fully documented for all expenditures on con-
struction and civil vorke, vehiclea, equipment, fertilizers and ineecticides
in excess of US$1C,000, against certified statement of expenditures for other
goode and services procured by CMDT, and agalist certified etatements of loans
made by BNDA. A Special Account vill be opened in a commercial bank for the
initial deposit of the vorking fund, which will subsequently be replenished by
the Association upon evidence of expenditure. Opening of the account ie a
condition of effectiveness (DCA, Section 7.01(h)). An amount of $3.0 million
equivalent of expenditures under category (7) incurred between June 1, 1983
and signature of the Credit Agreement vill be eligible for reimbursement,
which vill accelerate disbursement of funds in support of policy reforme (DCA,
Schedule 1). Documents of actual expenditure vill be retained by BNDA and
CMDT for review by IDA missions. The Government has agreed that CNDT, BNDA
and ORSP will develop and maintain their accounting systems in accordance vith
sound and recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA and
will provide quarterly progress reports and annual financial statements to
reflect the financial performance and position of both the project and their
entity. An auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to IDA on such
statements vill be provided vithin six monthe after the close of the financial
year.
58.      In support of policy changes, the IDA credit will finance up to MF8.5
billion (US$12.0 million) of additional resources beyond the incremental input
and investment requirements of the project, which vill be complemented by an
additional NF3.0 billion (US$4.2 million) fron CCCE. Over the five years of
the project, the funds will be used: (a) to finance the Guarantee Fund to its
ceiling of MF5.5 billion; (b) to inject MF3.2 billion into the Cotton Account,
to be used in part to finance producer price increases and to cover CEDT
charges, like depreciation, more adequately than in the past; and (c) to
liquidate CMDT'e outstanding claims of Np 2.8 billion on OSRP and Government,
mainly accrued through under-budgeting in recent barèmes. Funds vill be
released in annual tranches, so as to reduce the risk of significant short-
falls in Treasury revenues from cotton during the early stages of the project.
Tranches will be released after verification that the policy reform targets
for the preceeding period have been met (para. 48). Cumulative disbursements
of IDA funds under this category will not exceed US$7.0 million by the end of
1984, US$9.0 million by the end of 1985, US$11.0 million by the end of 1986,
and US$12.0 million by the end of the project. Disbursement of these funds
vill be against the cost of fertilizers and pesticides imported by CNDT and
sold to farmers at input prices consistent vith the input subsidy targets.
Disbursement of the portion granted directly to CMDT would require that CEDT
accounts for 1982 be certified by independent auditors (DCA Schedule 1).
59.      The advance under the Project Preparation Facility is to be used to
accelerate 1983 audits of CXDT and OSRP, to speed up recruitment of a Co-
manager for the OSRP, and to hire consultants to vork out the details of the
Cotton Account and Cotton Guarantee Fund Management Agreements.
Project Organization and Management
60.      CEDT.  Overall project implementation will be the responsibility of
CMDT. The proposed project vill reinforce CMDT's senior management by



- 21 -
financing a separate project coordinator viith full responsibility for phyaical
coordination and a reinforced monitoring and evaluation unit. Responsibility
for daily operations will remain with five regional chiefs. The chiefs of
five staff divisions in CNDT's headquarters would continue to be primarily
responsible for programming and supervising their respective activities. To
strengthen its management, CEDT has had a management agreement f th Compagnie
Francaise pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles since 1974 covering
technical support by its headquarters in Paris and administrative overhead
coste of expatriate staff. Under the project, these arrangements vill
continue.
61.      Three additional senior staff will be recruited on mutually agreed
terms of reference and qualifications: (a) a training specialist in CMDT for
financial management and accounting; (b) a Co-manager at the OSRP to help
administer the Cotton Account and Guarantee Fund; and (c) an agronomist for
CMDT's rice program. Recruitment for the firet two positions is a condition
of credit effectivenesa (para. 50); and recruitment of the agronomist must
occur by March 31, 1984 (PA, Section 2.02(c)). In addition, CMDT will retain
personnel vith qualifications satisfactory to IDA in existing senior posi-
tions, including a project coordinator, a financial manager, a monitoring and
evaluation specialist, a confectionary groundaut agronomist, a maize agrono-
mist, and a road maintenance engineer. Finally, to protect its financial
structure, CMDT vill not undertake non-project activities involving expendi-
tures exceeding MF 100 million per year without secured financing and the
agreement of IDA and Government (PA, Section 2.08).
62.      BNDA.  Nedium-term credit vill be provided by the BNDA, which vas
established in 1981 with financial and technical assistance from FAC and
CCCE. Its share capital is held by the Malian Government (55 percent), CCJE
(20 percent), BCN (15 percent), and BDN .(lu percent). Its governing Board is
chaired by the State Minister of Econony and Plan. Day-to-day operations are
the responsibility of a General Manager, who is currently an expatriate with
considerable West African experience in credit management. He is assisted by
about 10 senior staff. BNDA policy is to expand prudently, beginning vith
areas of high potential such as Mali-Sud and Mopti, vithin the limits imposed
by substantial staff training requirements. BNDA's loan portfolio at end-1982
vas about MF 10.9 billion (US$15 million), of which 80 percent is revolving
seasonal credit to CMDT. In the consortium of banks that finance CMDT's over-
draft requirements, BNDA has been allocated 30 percent, the balance being met
by other commercial banks. Gross income for 1982 is estimated at MF 600
million (US$8.5 million) mostly from the 7.5 percent yield on seasonal loans;
net income after depreciation is only MF 30 million (5 percent), insufficient
to provide adequately for bad debts. For a start-up period of several years,
BNDA will require a special banking relationship with CEDT because the bulk of
its income is earned on seasonal loans. To further strengthen BNDA's income,
Government has agreed to give priority to it in domestic placement of Cotton
Guarantee Fund resources. During the project, BNDA vill expand offices in the
area and set up mobile offices at seasonal market centers. The project vill
construct or improve office space and purchase vehicles for BNDA field staff.
63.      CNDT and BNDA have entered into a satisfactory agreement covering the
procedures and responsibilities for loan administration. BNDA vill bear the



- 22 -
financial risk and be the final judge on borrover eligibility within the
standard criteria like farm size and cropping patterns. CEDT field staff vill
screen loan applications and channel them to BNDA branches for disbursement
and subsequent loan admiristration. CMDT vill deliver equipment, verify
installations, and assist vith loan recovery vhere BNDA is not sufficiently
represented. CEDT will be remunerated for canvassing, screening and supervi-
sing loans by a flat 6 percent commission on the equipment price, which vill
be passed on to the borrower.  It will also manage a livestock replacement
fund constituted by a 6 percent levy on the value of animals purchased on
credit.  To ensure that BNDA controls medium-term credit, CIDT has agreed to
abstain from miking any new loans from its own resources after signature of
the Credit Agreement (PA, Section 3.07).
64.      Government relending terms to BNDA (para. 53) have been calculated to
ensure sufficient cash flov and profitability, as vell as allow constitution
of provisions to cover losses from drought and or mortality that may exceed
the CYDT in.surance fund.  To assure sound financial practices, BNDA vill be
required to maintain a debt-equity ratio (including statutory reserv!s) less
than 10:1, to follow agreed monitoring and supervision guidelines, and to-
distinguiish clearly project-refinanced loans in all its accounts (PA, Sections
4.01, 4.03 and 4-04).
65.      Cereals Marketing.  CEDT buys grain from farmers and resells to the
rQovernment grain ooard (Office des Produits Agricoles du Nali).  These buying
operat.ons compensate for the relatively fragmented market in riore remote
areas and help support effective producer prices in the immediate post-harvest
period, increasing farmer confidence. Hovever, the official price and
marketing structure that CMDT is obliged to respect hampers its operations and
increases its finAncial risKS. Under the project, Government vill allow CHDT
to recover full purchase, transport, storage and handling costs for all its
collection points. If the grain board's purchase price does not cover CMDT's
full marketing costs, OSRP vill be expected to maie up the shoatfall.  In the
event that OSRP is unable to meet the costs, CEDT may then sell its grain to
other purchasers offering higher prices (DCA, Section 4.04).  CGDT vill
evaluate the costs and benefits of this intervention by Narch 31, 1985, and
discuss this evaluation vith IDA and Government by June 30, 1985 (PA, Section
3.10); Government will prepare a plan of action by September 30, 1985 to
implement recommendations (DCA, Section 4.06).
66.      SOMIE&. Even though SOIIEI wili continue to be the cotton export
agent, its actual technical role vill be limited, as it is today. Vith a view
to further rationalizing the cost structure of cotton exports, the project
vill finAnce a thorough marketing systems study to examine various medium-term
options in handling exports, including the incorporation of a part of SOMIEV's
Export Department into CEDT. OSRP will carry out the study by September 30,
1985, d-scuss it with IDA by December 31, 1985, and propose an action plan by
Narch 31, 1986 to *mplement recommendations (PA, Section 3.13).
67.      Research.  The Institut d'Economie Rurale, which is in charge of all
agricultural research in Mali, vill implement the applied research compo-
nent.  An agreement satisfactory to IDA has been signed with CMDT to govern
implementation of the research activities, linkages with CEDT, responsibili-
ties of extension and research staff, and manngement of demonstration plots.



- 23 -
Benefits and Risks
68.      The project's m-in uanatifiable benefits will be the increased
production of cotton, maize, millet, and sorghum. The value of annual incre-
mental production at full development vill be approximately NF 7.3 billion
(US$10.3 million) from 28,000 tons of cotton, NF 6.7 billion (US$9.4 million)
from 55,000 tons of maize, NF 4.5 billion (US$6.3 million) from 33,000 tons of
millet and sorghum., representing output increases of 39 percent, 36 percent
and 25 percent of the value of project output, respectively. Net family
incomes vlli increase ir. real terms by 37-66 percent, depending on farm aize,
cropping pattern, and mechanisation. The ERR on activities and investments to
promote miSed ffarming, rice and groundnuts is estimated at 23 percent (based
on 54 percent of project costs). Costs include the CNDT and BUDA overhead,
the value of new agricultural equipment and- its reneval, extension and the
value of incremental fertilizers and insecticides financed by t'Ie project.
Excluded are costs of the cooperative development, research, and rater and
health components and financing for non-incremental input costs. With the
costs and benefits of the policy reforms, the return is estimated at 33 per-
cent (based on 72 percent of project costs). Sensitivity tests show that the
project ERR (mnixed farming plus the policy reforms) vill remain above 10 per-
cent vith either a 31 percent fal7 in benefits or a 45 percent increase in
costs. The groundnut component is more sersitive to price fluctuations
because of the relatively specialized confectionary groundnut market; to
reduce this risk, the project vill finance a market study (para 38).
69.     Major non-quantifiable benefits viii come fron the research, health,
rater and cooperative develipment components. The agricultural research com-
ponent could lead to more productive seed varieties and more cost-effective
input packages. The health and rater supply components vill help reduce mor-
tality and morbidity, thereby improving human productivxty in an area vith
high resource potential. The components for cooperative development, artisan
training and functional literacy vill continue the successful vork of the
first project to encourage village-level entrepreneurship and to reduce public
recurrent costs in the rural sector.
70.      Technical risks are minimal since the improved production techniques
have already be3n successfully introduced in the area during the previous
project by an effective extension network that has videspread farmer con-
fidence. Vorld market price risks are judged acceptable. Bovever, if there
is a protracted decline in cotton prices, the Guarantee Fund (together urith
STABEX) vill partially buffer the fall in income to aflor a more orderly
adjustment in the project area. Moreover, the proposed reduction of input
subsidies to minimal levels vould make the project less vulnerable to surges
in imported input costs since it would be possible to buffer the impact on
farm prices vithout severly straining rublic finances. The main risk to the
project is that sector finances vill not be reorganized as proposed through
the policy reforms, for two reasons. First, cotton production may not
increase enough to lover unit production costs sufficiently both to keep
Nalian cotton competitive on world markets and to yield the sane total public
revenue as in the past. The projected supply response and the associated
fixed-cost savings are vell vithin experience in other countries but are not
certain. Significantly lover (or higher) response rates vill require



- 24 -
reassessment of pricing targets during the annual revievs. Second, and more
importantly, the finacial controls introduced under the project, particularly
the protection of gross cotton revenues, may come under pressure from
conflicting interests. Disbursement of funds for non-incremental recurrent
costs by anniAl tranches, after IDA verifies that price and tax targets have
been respected, fill help reduce this risk. In the final instance, hovever,
the project vll test the Government's villingness to reallocate resources
from consumption to production and to improve financial controlas vithin the
public sector, which vill help determine vhether similar broad-based
operations are feasible in the future.
PAYT V - LEGAL ISSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITI
71.     The draft Development Credit Agreemnent between the Republic of Nali
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
BNDA, CEDT and OSRP and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Erecutive Directors separately.
72.      Special conditions of the project including conditions of
effectiveness are listed in Section III of Annez III.
73.      r am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit vill comply vith
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONEEDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
oplent Credit.
A.Y. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
September 15, 1983



- 25 -
ANIEX I
r    SoCL ULICAI 6S    S
& RtFLSEM2. :i11 (aLmaf4ti AfL&U"rL     a-
.ssr               {.~~~-iSr ouvslr csruat) lb
alT                    051FIVT~T<S>l
.jb     197!    :E lb          W S  ts .                  aost
19         t91 ESTLLT.            4FItC1 S. dl SAIB      351<101 S. cF 55114
AUN CfhSASz q. 31
ruraL                             1«0V       1240_U      124o.0
A01icuLrLZEA                      311.6       31715       3ZO.S
av Fm o         am)>                  5<.0       &8U.0       110_.o      Z      5X6 14141.Y
ST          UUa    FflAm
(RUaaAIW UF cap, WUlVaT>)          10.0        23.0        31.0              79.8 n24.z
woemanau -m nuL usnoesy
aPOlLaTtos4flIn-WEA (OIsUiSISS>)   4040-0    516S.0      6IU1.0
AMIPUFULflS (2 oF TUL)        11.0       16.9        1tl_D             19.5                      2d_5
FOCULATlI PRO.fCrWIOi
totmats w ImAm -I00   LL)                                12.1
sflTiodlAE  FOFELAl.u (MI1LL)                            4.4
Tsar S2ATL(AI POP. RE                                  215$
naPLSrs0 u42151T
rsa C-                             3.3        4.*         5.4      ;        9.                    - sb  s
Pt &q. £5. .10I_ La15             IZ_ .      16.3        20.9              94.l                     131.8
mPOITim SâZ srzcfRE (Z>
0-154 uS                         431        44«7        4b.7              45.0                     4*S_
15 - R4                           S3S 53.1   S2b.        5U.6              52.1                     Sl2
b5 Jl   &f.                        Z_b        7.7         Z._               '. S._
FWuLAW~IMIhultç LAS (j>
WtaL                              2_L         Z.5         Z.b               :.d                       '
Uai                                >.Z        5.4         4.0 b..C                                   5.3
c'UE 51tt1 MaSE <ER TROUS)          45         49.d        48.5              61.9                     41.6
LainE 0lSrd dam <rt (ou    >S)      26bd       21.8        21_4              19.2                      IS.'
GOSS lPOUCOS R aTS                  3.3         3.2        312                3.2                       3.2
FASIL! PLIUX
A .oue. an   Chu5J                  __         .___
<1555 Ct OF flFJIC.) uaci           __         _______
se           o aD rum
Lnon OF Fo1  PROD. FER crra
(19b9&1L-100)                      1U3_0      îUO. 0. Y                      87.6                     YS_
PER CWETa SUPPIL oF
CALoIFS <: OFRU       tS          91.0       29_0        55.0              651O                     ?Z.1
PiltmIls (G0alu  £a 0Y)           59.0       57.0        » u               Si:5
0F 2111 ALL'LIL AXO PULSE        L6.0        1.. ID_Olc                   18.1                      .
CU0L    (SES 1-4) ULM   sArs       45._        39._        33.1              25.7                    Z.b
LIPS I rrECT. AT *IICD <TA11S)      37.2       4U.3        44.b              47.6                     51.9
15FAT 55u>T. LlRI <ri3l T1MUS)    194.7       1)6.5       157.1             IZ6.5                    117_5
AraSA TO SAFE UATEl 04P151
TUTAL                                                     9.0,4            24.1                     25.4
Udâ                                 .        29.U        42.07;[           56.6                     70.5
RADIAL                              ....0818.3                                                       1.
roEs To EuU 81151
<Z OF POPULAflUR)
ToTAL                               __        8.0          ..              28_1
Rn_i                                        b63.0           _              65.7
RUSAL                               __         __          ._              Zl.9
POPmLATIOS PER P"SICL%N          64l30.0    4260.0      2113e.0/e         Z7420.6                  121I_1.
PUP. PFE  SURSL8  F5RSON          47*o0o.îF   2740.0     2380 0.7          3456.2                   2292.u
POP. FER FOSFIIUL mm
TOTAL                          lI9.00h    1420.0»b   1780.Oic bh         Il3l.                     1075.4
CIAS                             350.0o7    1260 U7i    570.o7t           380.6                    402.3
RURAL                           2S2U.0jia  i5t.OdiW       ._             3177.5                   3926.7
aossos    a PEm asrraL IEn            __       Z_.3        30.51c
AYE»CE£ SIZE OF SIUSE>IOU;
TOTAL                                                     4.8/d
Ua                                  ._         __          __                 .._.
RURAL                               ..         ._
ACCISE  O0. 0F F1rJ50OF/llJII
URR.                                            _ ._                 .     ..
RURAL                               ''         '-
55 W a             0F W F Y i 1S5
TOTAL                               ..         _...                           __
RAL                                ..          ..          .                  ..



- 26 -
ANNEX I
àA   L    3 3&                                      PAGE 2
- SUoCAL .IC&.S   Ar  SIcT
.L;;;                                iURFLle=te  w-wEvS (biellULAV EKMRES;E) la
.1                {*~~~~fSI 15LQSCX cSTL,AIE> lb
: ?  :tcIJ:. L            L12CAItL             2IDLE LI-M
S. Of SaLA        FanlCa S. Ot scaaÂ
EDIlAnol
;.UCSTN s:Li l:UXuus
PitLty:  Td-E.L                    lO_u-       :3_U        Zls.Ute             bJ.9                      117.2
:'.-- '        :_.u        ~~~~~~JO.UI 1.7                7.S.6                     103.1
P'L>F          o.u         1~~~~~~~~6.Vk  2U'7e1.6                                   ".l.S
SzWL'At:  UTOAL                     l.u         5.u         9.U/e              1'.5 19.2
-SUL                     1.0         a.O        13.0fl             Ib.7                       23.5
EE2ALE           ,       4.1         2.u         S.ur7              8.1                       14.2
VOCITlu!;AL t( CF SWOuÀ>             14&.6j       9.b         9_0/t               7.3                       S.2
PtFPLL-IEAUISER stAOJ
PrL:LxSY                           65.u        4U.U         41.0              66.4                       *2.9
SECU..oUAY                         ;.o.l       15.!           ..               z5.1                      23.7
.WXCLT LUTILttK   sat (               2.2          .         10.0/c              3b.5                      37.1
?ASSI:WEA CURS/TiLOuSA2 par          0.6         1.7         2.1fi               3.3                      1L.8
LLWI   EtEc ls/lIOUSA2 POP            2.o        11.         13.4                65.3                      97.S
TU RXtIVEAs/nwQsA=S  Pop               ..          ..          ..                2.2                        .6
z.t-wApanc ruîs ;Lrut'
txrEacsr>) Claaota.iw
?EPo-tiUUAS.U fuPULAIl0U             U_:         O.b/k        ..                 4.7                      15.2
a.iaa Aa'wa.L ArrUANO/ECAPLI          1.9         u.S l        ._                 1.0                       0.6
TOTAL. L;ABk FDfl (H.LOCS)         f234.U      :S53.0      3564.0
FSIALE (VE5CXT)                    48.1        47.9        48.4               34.5                       36.1
fl1cuIuN'KS <rtx'e£ .r)            94.u        91.0        7Z.I               7b.Y                       56.5
LXAUMSTt (PEMCS:L>r)                3.U         4.0        LI.7                9.a                       17.5
ratTLCIPA.rtu5; MATL CPLRCI>)
.uTaL                              57.5        55.3        52.1               40.9                      37.0
SU£E                               50.6        5ai.6        S5.b               53.U                      47.1
FLflE                              54.5        S2.0        4S.a               25.9                       Z7.0
cCLU DtC LSPcXDcliY KaTI0            0.          0.9         0.                 1.2                       1.3
DoC DISWm Mc
PECSaIT UF fit [ATE tiXa£
diE;liEsr 32 OF IWUSESOLUS           ..
ICSlESr 2U: Vt uil:SEHOLbS           ..
LIUESr ZO  OF HJUSESJLDS             ..
uSd51T 6M0 UF dOUSEcHOUDS            ..
POuDm 1u aoms
LEWEL (USpMa r£s orTr)
C:i                                  ...                   9ii.0Je           lh5.9                      S34.2
WIIAL                                 ..                   bu.671-            d7.4                     255.9
tSILeIE OLLSarl5iE PouivcxY LScu2ic
LEYEI. (USS PEt APILITA>
UA                                   ..          ..        96.01c             165.a                     491.5
cUIAL                                ..          ..         mu.o7              674.                     2s.9
ESLILITIETU POP. ALlVW  ABSULUTS
YoV«r! IXEm. ;èXVI:L 
131322\                              ._          __        61.0/c              39_5                     49..
RURAL                                ..          ..          7.067            69.0                         ..
MOT AVAILAEI4Z
.xr APPLlC;aLE
zi O T S S
/a  rie groap averages for each ledicator are ppuIactonl    thted arithmette  eas.  Coverage of couetrîes  ong the
indicators depends on avallability of data amd Is not mtforu.
/b  Unless otherwlse noted, Data for 19bO- refer to auy yeJr betwee  1959 amd '.961; -Data for 1970' bettee  1969 aMd
1971; and data for -4ost Recent Estlaer   tutween 1979 and  1981.
le  1977; Id 197e; le 1975; If 1962; S Cooeraent persomnel; /h Goerameut maspital eatabLishueots; IL 1975; jj îlot
mcLudiî 4prinace vocaCloual schools; Ik 1972; /l 1965.
Hay 1983



t:  *_.                                                                                                       '_ tîeI. _*   îlt. _I ttiui
-tu-e  n_  letts rtae.a                                                                   r 'ate         ,t. -_at  'laSi  _t _lJ_tiJ s  isti.5_La
ens'  *t         *et-ut1.  a ta-     '         r su           -
-._*" .-il   -    tlta1« _-    ta  *lt 1.- 1                          t1'-S
-S~~~~~~~~ _                                                                      (PI"S  ",w_}<_P__s
SI "s~~~~~~~~~~ -1 1-r    ea  '.tt-  ttltt   a  utt-    tttteetata-   t
n-gj*X.            |            __ __                  *1-                       _P_ ;" . _
P-à-    m -    -14 fflp .-b ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       5..  taeL1tjas eta;ttSps
IM   "_I1l   t            £^-|"-_. gS,.  D"  .......... .d-:-- l-"-
....  n-talm .p- et                      e tDut t . . -SI   I MI_
*aa..nI             la  r.   q,t .ut_C  rj tt.sae -> utw   r. -a_sa                     ejea._  nq  etq  Lies r         ..ait nl-ta   ttS    .  taI .;        s
'e -_  -         fl as.-  itia   s-ut. _qt'-   se-_tai  %u t-nil                    tt-tu    . -a-. -B s-ltt. 1-ir -     vine -t tt.e tels tr- =
¶tl  flPll  t   a,..a    jla-et att i. tent tanisa   et .lit  _      t    J        i fa           n  <tie !a-tIse
t zs _ t_ _ n: _t _ « w_aa xIs-S                                               lui v-  :_ .1  mi :. n". -    -            VI-   'S IP  _ -
taaS seeet -  pt             e _i ua   et aet    uulaa te                               r. 6         *eea-.1  ItI          J- t._ -         (        . a-t Jet  s  - I
à~ ~~~~~~~~-b P_ws,,_t*  -,  sas              l! ,t _           }        a "        VSD 
-  t-ar     qi.- cîsie   sts    a.n   -:.ueteettn  i.ete                                       eutse.e -Il 'ws PI.. na-u-se      6 s-ant-îaui- List  Jeta
-   -à -elset                '-t        t e      t   'un'- u S s- '_          - ae  -t n.a  r_   P
-  a  tuetbt  ret  u"t   ast a-  leu - tuainu  LatuJs-  .a  r. 'tata -tes.. - g9.pe r4   ea. -S atau  *-_    ea
lntl     -at  aeql.,ers  att  _t-e   maD    utin  nee.                                            't  tu, r. _    '-tuu tttsu  att _etq  alt teel   *-- t i.t
,-jt-   " l tt _-  _-.        P.-t_  -tt i         tJv lui P-'tw    r uttI        _          - _-s                 r tP tP es _   us-tS  Da   tir  uSot.- _ta
PISIRi.  .                         f-- ænt- *z»---_ &I                                               oz       ~             1^--«      _ m VI  _*_M_t  tD
-ais-a 'litansinta tIr rssaiaaueu                           IPI -à    ~   Popu           11-t-    tn    .ti''I Itltt
r.  t|ast~ Statai r  a'c  na ats- ltns ta    -   -t,, tueuse. est                        dette-s au,    - tail  *t. tlatp -  tits  t.         _at, sa   t ain_ - a .-flà
'Oui -Sffl     _l 1-- J.                                  p-     e                               t                   ttItm  taitti 41 i-       iaJi tt etiJi»
s-t_s                                                                                                                 a  ta   s ti   e   s  ai-  t   u    e   e   a   t_u ,   ta u  n    . _   I
lu i s-              - Ci-tî r        Ia etn                    a.a."  àat                              -  ee  u           ceusa     ste  uuae'e E.-u  a> 1,u
etiiitieislc1b _ >31!01_                                                                  *ttVS -ap -Z- 
-Si, 8tuttI %,-uucit       - _  el -t tii
_-tZ  *B~W ~l -t  l_   I_1»l           '-steI _Jttlet et                        ..t  'e  tat  tîtueau -l _t- r*1     itu   a. a1n@  a 1_ eJ   a  l    ai 
Plai.~~~ _8pqf     _  _ww1Jtw__*. -« _   Al__8} w-lé                                          P-PIS--                          .3-_^t    a.7--  ffaw  rf
-       Pt nt Pt lt ar  attlt  s- us  t--- tu'  ,aswn   it.Ii                                                "a      "' ';e    t '-"la  tn'e  "-_j _tu  Wtt.
,0^~~~~-ti  Itali_ I.J  t-  _,t.t  ta,                             _              at _, mal  ptSe   'e   @att- J  W^. tiit  a..............-..... _nts--  ua  s
_*t- 's-r   :-u *-ai- r. 'atit  _   se __a-set  m-a eett'                          e-ai a . ttaus te.- tai  -4 r- -e~itat-ttt sa
[ttitittît     t_i  n  wat ta   tq   -tntar.'gt't                                             *_-as  '-îtt    t-t  ioq ntrea            tnt   etta         p
_tlist   .0  st jes at*setidtlf  r. JI  'ttut  r tttesttt.                                 . t-t-  J 3.-_at5r         i z-ute ut'-_t r I_-Zat _t     =1tt ^1n
te ttltttitttitd - tttet, r.  n~~~~~-e '_ tats t <utta_1s1a>-tata -ttIt_at        t  - relie  -tE  ittt                   p       -trLIst  Y_ta'
-~~~~~~~~~~~tiltP   n                                                     a-idn t s- a-1-tt-   tlnei - <tlst e-Jet t_ttJ   tX sttt e_tst  an
lUt  flitj  ati uta-ts- nt.t-t'tt - ni P  Jtt  'LttlJittie --                                       --_p 1_ _.ti 'Ot-a 'tuat '--D t.3_  se
!-ffli0X  -BSIY
_t      e-e- .'t-               t ei  et _  t  .atn - f       S_R'                        tat  -' sst I       t_        - ---  s - - ai            t   artee
,lili  _t _n   _n   itan   a,ttit     s-q at,tS aW iqs                               tI~p  _s  'a'eutt  etett teJs                        qituZ _t ltl
--3t tis     Ma         -_*-_ tete  e  a,  t    - <eati .SPuJt1.t   .îe-e   ittlLlt-   tt aiw  1  l                                      Dtlem   --a ittiti
=IY sX-%  t-ta-   ~ ~          ~         ~        ~         ~         ~        ~                 _X  _ eX*s 'DII 3. ^fl SIx
'rt,ua  rs tY 't.eî tnnata                     tt  t-ta Sun tuta  _es-- t_   -'t et et                      .eai
<=_ *__S _ _v _@@s aw }h6s _s.    -4J                                                                                   _
Pit  I     t_Yan  -     t    ItiC t 1Pt a t-                   . ji  st                                  1-     e    i r             i t
s :__ 2"a' A-_                                                                                                                    W -1  _a   _ »I
4--li                        -Ist-r  il"  ',t-      Itie         a-      ae't aatte -t- s-_t
_-t       -e- at                                                        t          fi- L1t-ti   t r suz1_ tu ttat . '<        t     u _ t-s->
s-  SP   _u    e. -t             ul              .          r -t-n> -                            e e u.tt*-     r. zase  qt   Jt r1  tst                   t
~~-- _-_~~~~TI _W SI  P ;   I                                                                       1-« -   s1   't 
__ wm"ns " n_ _                       Z1l _  3_ ;Z_ _ ~~p l_b_ -cul -ou
'S t " J'      ut - iI* '.- ait                                                                                             plt -2   _   t  Jtlust_   a     r. r.>
_ ~ ~~          W e       l   5tti       'i   ts   'up             .3s                  r.a _-  eas-t. 1.îeia    seuu   r.  13 _           - ttSJ _Ytue
Jti-~: E                            .   -       _ @. -Id        WOei P- -01     -    r-i
_~~~~~~~~~~._1 -r    _. _1-  mi _PIMP to                                                       PIS- 
teat-la  e -r.ttp  .Jtiaaitt.tauttte3.'st.ut.us-tuettastIsstra  a
a- t...W                                       _- - <ut tedu    -  ta.. - su i a                                              _sie .t  * n  l-   _-     ta-l-
'ttin t-t -t tt-                         a-    r      ua"                      e -i-.YJ ---                                   te -      -t       r     ur
tJittttj ai -teiflAPI- .s-g tetus.5 s-*aa  a  ilteu  utae u.t   ttitat                                             s-Ia "     un   i   jst-tla           ua
t      £.tpta    -" ieta   ai' taofl  ietite- s-au  In    a-tJ   t>.                                                                          -enta PI,
us-  s      ti4ttl     tut  .aet   r. totaeu  aelra  patiut                                                                                                -n
tl- VII~I    _  ta1n-  -PS    _sys tZ-P                                               _ _                   Z* _ .1  ff
u     a;  itaa  r   -   i-o (             s  s-a    as      a.;neua-t-n O                                        i- t    ns-l _     tl         _     i       PSI
9- -t- 'lIPS. --*                            teOtt-   L                                 Is q- 1           -t JtttlI-t s-  *1t t_P  '- -
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~. et_   _s- 4z  P-. _1 1-    .-
_tta tuiJiet tItO aeDt.tj t tat1t               . IJe> _at~ ai                                   je s-eatqî *0 .. e..-. u-J       s-te-. atu nu_ esA'it  a.
-PIPIPS, lb-siPt                                                           _pa t      a.                 'Itit-e --e *tt' _testtatt Ptt i   a%
s. nse r.  -sait s-. -   aiteut- a eps                                        £IV so- .0te't  t          'tv-n  _ r . 'tucnt e s  -t a           Ia
-_<tata- r. te' et titi ttpit teaetet t                tea aiattulsueeqa. te t'n   qatas -S  1-    a                              I.-t   _-*t  a- t    e- atR
.P.iaW                                                                                                          -u-      r 41 ds -at '.t-.    1 _      t      s
-I'e su et tare.. n. ta  Le e'nhuî et-et Jautu-ta r.   tII *pi uttet r                       e     tr   t s        ee"s  - _--e..At    .      e    -
ta letc-  ttats         SIq   -as      r -i-t. - eea as-q- uai                                                            -et-p     .-   -i           ?et
_      t      Lts-tan. s- _an          I. *- _Lt             _         e        stS--  - a- ana- P                 s Ia -mit  te t-_-u t _-
titSnset rata-te est- e-ses  'qa     leaa   ttlu          tt                  -<fl   -etutaI.  (ett ît-f t>I -'te &-  a... a>at-t  t                 -Uitt
_ at    "_« ltl ie.tli-tea   (ta-teler-     >   t          u- "o s                       -t.U r.s w   -m moi.-
* .1  _ff   e  P  *af-_  *t_ t_t_-*°t'e Lî         _at          nt-            st ttattsaae o. _tt - _tSn ts r., tettu                    q -t .nlat
-t-  ...       t    tta           a          - a  e  s r                                            _- titi       -et,' eust r.- '<tt t-el ?<teo
atos tise 'i.->                  tl-' pt    e  'uta° o         . a   '4                             _                                      tr ap- e tut_
Sa_sYI ai *_at *e at-         . _t         ite       ns- tuatt                                                          'uttil aatae -    et '-e ts L3M a   MINeCI-
SI                                                                                                                    lobs 8-   mi  mi
tin.  teai  ttts  te>    ie   r  tttiit~~ipi~sts                                  ut'ttasut--M    ' -1    Is,-1    rPItS a- .aia  n   . etiitp
I      "OP  p
Icaer Is-a-I             -t LitZ   -S  S.           e                 -
S~~~~~~~~~lt PSI                                                      fI   ee i-priaItee ir tstat al
p- SaaLiittitasall"-piJ   .  aq   t ti  .-.~ etaueiai  satLat-e                                                                 Lîea.- -tiea
tt It s-ttet.pe   te taSit5    -u a-aa- aeas                                   at     aasqui tt-t "          asci-    jetas.-t;t    -lta- tira.,S
tetss-   -   PIe'  -    AP~tI.S I-   ePIPI t   i-q- t~   i s- iue atais --u -.           p98r -              -tIaP  -àt r.p --g- 'st   tta         at
àt                   etp  -Lu,.e-attem-Lae-    ai   -  tsuMt àtît
LZ ~    ~      <iI5ittteaa   ee--ttn       tt>nJ~t    a



- 28 -                                            ANNEX T
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAI PRODUCT IN 1982 /1/                                          ANNUAL COMPOUND RATE OF CRONTH <t constant priceo) /21
US$ Mln,      S                             1960-67    1967-74  1974-80  1980-82
CNP at Market Prices                 1045.9     100.0                             3.4        2.5        B.2       0.4
Grosa Domestic Investment             171.6       16.4                            6.1       -2.1        8.7      -3.8
Gross National Saving                 -25.8      -2.5                            -2.3          /32
Current Account Balance /41          -198.7     -19.0                           -15.5       -6.6      -1.2       22.6 /51
Exports of Goots, NFS                 188.7       18.0                           12.0       -2.6       11.6     -14.9 J5J
Importa of Cooda, NFS                 389.7      37.3                            13.7        4.9       6.2       -6.5 /J/
ObTPIIT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITI IN 1982 /61
Value Added           Labor Force      V.A. Per Uorker
5$ Min.       Z          Mln.       S        US          S
Agr:culture                           445.6      42.6        2.7      73.0      165.0       56.8
Industry                              107.7      10.3        0.4       12.0     269.3       92.7
Services                              492.6       47.1       0.5       15.0     985.2      339.1
Total/Average                   1045.9     100.0        3.6     100.0      290.5      100.0
GOVERUNMENT FINANCE./ /7
Ceneral Covernoent             Central Governient
(MF Bln.)        of CDP /8/  (NF Bln.)         S of GDP
19B2      1982    1979-81      1982       1982    1979-81
Curr-ent Receipts                     101.1      15.0       14.8      78.4       11.6       11.e
Current Expenditurea                  111.0       16.4      18.9       88.3      13.1       14.6
Current Surplus                        -9.9      -1.5       -0.1       -9.9      -1.5       -3.2
Capital Expenditures                                                    6.8       1.0
External Assistance (net) /9/                                 _       142.5      21.1       16.4
MONES, CREDIT AND PRICES /1O           1978       1979      1980       1981      1982                  1982      1983
(Bln NF Outstanding end-period)                      January   January
Money and Ouasi-Money                 103.0     120.2      125.6      129.4     144.6                134.3      151.7
Bank Credit to Covernment             101.8     110.1      111.9      123.1     151.8                124.4      154.1
Bank Credit to Econo.y                131.6     152.2      164.0      174.8     190.0                178.8      197.0
(of which State Enterprîses)          (71.9)    (89.21   <104.6)   (110.7)   (116.8)                (107.1)   (120.1)
Money and Ouasi-money (< CDP)          24.3      23.1       22.4       21.3      21.4
Generai Price Index /11/              100.0     110.8      121.0      134.3     146.1
Annual percentage change in
General Price Index                     9.7       10.8       9.2       11.0       8.8
Bank Credit to Governuent               7.8        B.2       1.6       10.0      23.3
Bank Credit to Econo3y                 22.8      15.7        7.8        6.6       8.7
(of vhich State Enterprises)        (11.6)    (24.1)    <17.3) .  (5.3)        (5.5>
NOTES:  All conversions te US$ are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Mot available indicated by '..'
i11  GNP estimate for 1982 based on current growth rates troc INF and 1980 CNP value from EPD National
Accounts data.  All other components are estimates trou [NF Staff Report, August 1983.
121  GCP grovth rate calculated by the leaat-squares method, all other grovth rates using end points.
/3/  Groas National Saving turned negative in 1974, making caleulation of a grovth rate impossible.
/4/  Growth rate calculated frou Resource Cap, not Current Balance.  A negative siAg  indicates a growing d-ficit.
/5/  Growth rates calculated on the basis or constant SDR s.
/6/  Labor Force frou Morld Developnent Report 1983; these figures actually represent the 19,0 labor force.
Bank estinates of value added by sector are not yet available. These rigures were calculated by assuming
that between 1981 and 1982 the sectors changed (relatively to one another) as noted in the IMF Staff Report.
These relative changes were applted to 1981 Bank's seetoral breakdeun and sealed to sum to CEP.
/7/  From IMF RED, August, 1983, and Capital Expenditure frou the Malian Budget, 1982.
18J  1982 GDP esticate from IF Staff Report, Auguat, 1983.
/9/ Provisional estimates of net foreign borrouing fro. DRS and or grants trou IF RED, Auguat. 1983.
Grants include food aid, project aid and budgetary aid.
/10/  All data frou INF International Financia  Statistica Tearbook.
/11/  CDP deflator. This is a composite series using deflators trou £PD National Accouats data until 1980
and thereafter calculating the index by using percentage changes frou IF Staff Report to make the
deflators compatible with national accounts figures used.
August 29. 1983



-2W5-                                               AUNER I
Sage 5
TRADE PAYTENTS ARD CAPIT4L FLOWS
BALCE OF PATHENTS                                                             NERCAUNDISE EXPORTS, FOB (AYERAGE 1980-82) /5/
1980      1981       1982                                                  USS NIn        S
Nillions USS
Cotton and Produets                  74.4       44.5
Experts of gods, NUFS f1/           262.4      200.4      188.7               Livestock and Products                55.9       33.5
;uoott  of goods, NFS 1l/           579.0      047.0      389.7               Groundnuts and Produets                5.3        3.2
Resourte gap Cdericit=->           -316.6    -246.6    -201.0                 Fisa  Cdried and suoked)               2.3        1.4
All other connodities                29.2       17.5
Pactor Peyments (Cet) /1/           -16.3      -29.3      -26.5
*       Privgte Trgnafers Cnet) /1/           33.1       29.6       28.8               Total                                167.1      100.0
efanei on Current Aecount          -299.8    -246.3    -198.7                 EXTERINL DEDT, Dec. 31, 1982 /6U
Government Transfers Cnet) /f/    146.0        129.7       93.1
- MLr Capital (net) /2J                121.2       92.9          .               Public Debt, inel. guaranteed                  1260.3
Reccipta                        128.7      106.1         ..(of whieh disbursed)                                         (825.2)
(of ihich public debt)         (117.1)   (<490)
Payments                         10.9       10.5                          DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1982 /6/                    S
(et whieh public debt)           (6.4)      <7.3)
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed                    5.2
Otiter Items                        -31.2      -16.5         .
Increas" i. Uenrvcs /2/              -1.4       -7.2
IBRD/LDA LENDING 1982 (Million US$) /6/
Gross Ieserve  f3/                   25.6       24.9
Net Reserves 13f                     25.6       24.9         *-                                                IBRD            IDA
Dericit on Operations
Account /4t                   -279.2    -238.5          ..               Outatanding and Disbursed       0.0             153.8
Undiabursed                     0.0             91.7
Importa or Petroleu, /5/             82.8       73.2       69.4               Outatanding and Undiabursed   0.0              245.5
Imports of Foodstufra /5/            7E.8       83.7       61.6
RATE OF EXCIIANGE /3Y
US$ 1.00 = NF                       422.6    543.46    657.24
NF   100 = U1S                       0.24       0.18       0.15
<As of MaY 1983: US5 1.00 -MF   743.01
NF 100 c 058       0.13)
NOTES:  For Balance of Payuents, consistent, reliable estimates for 1982 are not currently avallable.
/1f  Fros IF RED, Auguat 1983.
/2/  Fro. IF Balance of Payments Tearbooka.  HWLT Capital Net' is not equal to tie difference between
Ieceipts and Payuents because Net Use of Fund Credit la included le the net figure but la not included
in the gross figures. Net Use of Fund Credit La excluded rrom Total Changes in Reserves.
/3/  Frou INF International Financial Statisties.
/4f  From CEN, June, 1981, and IF Staff Report, Auguat 16, 1983.
t5/  Frou I3F RED, November 9, 1981, and INF RED, August, 1983.  Imports of Foodstufra does not include
Foos Aid.
/6/  Frou DRS Table 2, provisional for 1982. Debt servie. ratio is the ratio et debt service to exports
of gooda and non-factor services.
August 29. 1983



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MNAI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at July 31, 1983
Borrover: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                       Amount
Number     Year      Purpose                              IDA      Undisburaed
-----US$ million-----
Twelve Credits fully disbursed                             79.9
538-lqLI    1975   Livestock                               13.3          0.83
669-MLI    1977   Kali-Sud Agricultural                    15.5          1.88
713-NLI    1977   Railway III                              10.5          0.60
733-NqLI    1978   Education II                            10.0          0.88
753-MLI    1978   Mopti Rice II                            15.0          0.54
854-MLI    1979   Technical Assistance                      4.5          0.28
883-NLI    1979   Forestry                                  4.5          1.84
943-14LI    1979   Urban Development                       12.0          4.47
986-MLI    1980   Industrial Sector Development             8.0          6.66
l104-MLI   1981   Road Maintenance                         14.1 1/       9.86 1/
1134-MLI   1981   Petroleum Exploration Promotion           3.3 17       1.67 T/
1174-NLI   1982   ODIPAC Technical Assistance               5.8 1/      4.15 1/
1200-MLI   1982   Second Telecommunications               12.5 1/      12.24 T/
1282-nLI   1983   Vater/Power                              21.5 1/      20.83 T/
1307-MLI   1983   Economic Management and Tra ning         10.2 1/       9.24 T/
1403-XLI   1984   Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency    7.5 2/       7.50
248.1        83.47
of which has been repaid                 1.3
Total now held by IDA*                                    246.8
Total undisbursed                                                       83.47
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
1/   SDR exchange rate at July 31, 1983.
2/   Not yet effective



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 2
B.  Statement of IFC IveOtments as at July 31, 1983
Loan                                                Amount
Number   Year  Borrover                PurpoBe     of Loan  Equity  Undiabursed
---USS aillion---:---
403-MLI 1978 Societe Nèuadou
Sada Diallo et Pils     Bleach and
Plastie
Products        0.6              0.0
612-HLI  1982  Societe Industrielle    Sheanut butter
de Karite du Nali, S.A. for export       1.9     0.5     0.6



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
SECOND MALI-SUD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(A)  Project Preparation Missions:  1981
(B)  Appraisal Mission:  October, 1981
(C)  Post-appraisal Missions:  April and October, 1982
(D)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:  July 1983
(E)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  January 1984
Section Il: Special IDA Implementation Action
(A) Annual reviews of policy reform targets (para. 48)
Section III: Srocial Conditions
A.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)  Execution of a Cotton Account Agreement and a Cotton Quarantee
Fund Management Agreement (paras. 50 and 51);
(ii) Opening a Cotton Account at the BDM and a Cotton Guarantee Fund
at the BCM (paras. 50 and51);
(iii)  Appointment of a Co-manager for OSRP and a training specialist
in financial management and accounting for CNDT (para. 50);
(iv) Meeting conditions precedent to the initial diabursements of the
IFAD and CCCE loans and French Ministry of Foreign affaire, FAC
and Netherlande grants (para. 53); and
(v) Opening of a Special Account in a commercial bank (para. 57).
B. Conditions of Diabursement:
(i) IDA approval of a feasibility study for civil vorks in the Klela
network for the irrigation rehabilitation component (para. 38),
and completion of a technical revieu and inventory of new tracks
and major waterway crossings for the dirt tracks component
(para. 44); and
(ii) For initial disbursement for non-incremental costs of fertil-
izers and insecticides, recruitment of the Co-manager of OSRP
responsible for the Cotton Account and Guarantee Fund (para. 50)
and receipt of audited CNDT accounts for fiscal year 1981/82
(para. 58); and for each subsequent tranche, observance of price
and tax targets for the preceding period (paras. 48 and 58).



- 33 -
ANNNEX III
Page 2
C. Other Conditions
(i) Regarding policy targets, Government to declare by April 30 each
year (beginning in 1984) official prices for cotton and inputs
such that: (a) the cash cost coefficient vill be 30 percent or
less; and (b) subsidies on the aggregate value--including farm
delivery and taxes--of all recurrent inputs vill not exceed 25
percent in 1984, 18 percent in 1985 and 10 percent in 1987 and
vill be eliminated from 1988 onvards; these targets vould be
reviewed with IDA annually (para. 48).
(ii) Regarding agricultural credit: BNDA to apply specified maturity
and minimum dovnpayment conditions and charge farmers an
interest rate of 10 percent per year and cooperatives an
interest rate of 9 percent, plus any taxes not othervise
exonerated (para. 41); the interest rate structure to be
revieved annually with IDA to maintain positive real rates
(para. 41); CMDT to charge a commission of at least 15 percent
for credit sales of recurrent inputs (para. 37); BNDA to
maintain a debt-equity ratio of 10:1 (para. 64); CMDT not to
make any new medium-term loans (para. 63); and CNDT to study
samall farmers' accesa to equipment loans and propose appropriate
changes based on it (para. 42).
(iii) To assure sound CEDT management: CNDT to carry out a study of
its cost structure and propose an action plan based on it (para.
50); CMDT not to engage in7non-project activities over FR 100
million vithout IDA app.oval and secured financing (para. 61);
C)NDT to hire a rice agronomist and retain a project coordinator,
a financial manager, a monitoring and evaluation specialist,
groundnut and maize agronomists, and a road engineer (para. 61);
and CMDT to maintain the present arrangement regarding services
provided by Compagnie Francaise pour le Développement des Fibres
Textiles (para. 60).
(iv) To strengthen marketing arrangements: CNDT to be allowed to buy
and sell grain under flexible conditions and to carry out a
study of these new arrangements (para. 65); CMDT to study the
confectionary groundnut market and propose an action plan (para.
68); Government to study alternative means of organizing cotton
export marketing (para. 66); and cooperatives to receive
commissions, fees and discounts on input and output marketing
services performed for CMDT (para. 43).
(v) CMDT not to import tractors until a study of their impact is
carried out and discussed by IDA and Government (para. 42).
(vi) To reinforce operation of the Guarantee Fund, Governinent to
maintain a minimum quarterly balance in it and earmark all
STABEX receipts to this Fund (para. 51).



80                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60 
70 Kayes                                                          b              1k\ Cr
j_t      doO                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tenenkouo>   pCi 
-140 
°°o          >                                                              a~>  r~Mssino    Dienn
Kolokoni    > \        Bonamba \a-
900                                                          S      \                .....
BAM
's
-120
Kongoo
'0o
GUI   E A               OY        "'      AT~,           Ô



IBRD 16520
Tc Gpo  4I 2'                                                         /                                  JUNE 1982
G, 40                                                  2
-NOPTI
KJ   |        O ~~~~Bandiagara                   O                                MALI
-Bandmara                          ôo          _     JSECOND MALI SUD
_ _ Koro ~-                     AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
JY  |          ~~Bankoss        /
..*.*!                              I                                m   Village Water Supply Sub- Project
/- . ' Qj,.10° t:;:: :; :410                                      Primary Health Care Sub-Project
Cotton
Confectionary Groundnuts
N.~` :r   s  J                                         Small Irrigation Perimeters
_____________________ 800                                                     CM DT    Limit
M 0T  * Cotton Ginneries
.-.1-600  Isohyets in Millimeters
Major Roads
Rivers
-._   -    International Boundories
/000                        o           50          100         150
1 0o l   ,,l
KILOMETERS
i             F.1 /         i            r:ALGERIA
U PPE R                               |                        __f              j  \.
V O L T A                             N                 g  | MAULJfITANIA j
\~~~~~~~~~ XENEGAiL\  _                                                                z        !    
This map has been prepared by the   GAMB    .    AREA O          _    .
Worid Banks staff exclusivefy for  GUIEA-   ' L    M         UPPR  . 
theconvenienceofthereadersof    BPSSAU'PE                                     r _
the report to which it is attached.  B  GUINE.GY NE          VOLTA
The denominations used and the
boundanes shown on this map|
do flot imply. on the part of the       SJERRA      ~             )0 "OZJ    NIGERIA
Word Bank and is affiliates. any        LEONE, J    IVORY  !                    E
judgmentonthelegalstatusof
any tenitory or any endorsement                              GHANA                 f.
or acceptance of such boundaries_
40



