Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9270
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND MALI-SUD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1415-MLI)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This documept has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY BC IVALE?S
Currency Unit          - CFA Franc (CFAF)
Appraisal Year (1982) - US$1.00 - CFAF 355
Intervening Years      - US$1.00 = CFAF 400
Completion Year (1990) - US$1.00 = CFAF 250
WEIGRTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AV        -    Association Villageoise
BDM       -    Banque de Développement du Mali
BNDA      -    Banque Nationale pour le Développement Agricole
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CFDT      -    Compagnie Française pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
CMDT      -    Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
IFAD      -    Internationil Fund for Agricultural Development
ODR       -    Opération de Développement Rural
OSRP      -    Office pour la Stabilisation et pour la Régularisation des
Prix
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
SOMIEX    -    Société Malienne d'Import-Export



FM OFFICAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S A
ce ai Dirnct«weCwai
qtatnin tvaIutw3a
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report -MALI
Second Mali-Sud Rural Development Proiect (Credit 1415-MLI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Pr(ject Completion Report on Mali - Second Mali-Sud Rural Development
Project (Credit 1415-MII)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a rutricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performmee
of their official duti«. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wori Ik authorintion.



KALI                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND HALI-SUD RURAL DEELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1415-MLI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 0F CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .................                                                               i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................... ....................... iii
PART I      PROJECT REVEUW  FROM BANI'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ........................................... l
Background ...........................................                       1
Sector Development Objectives .........................1
Project Objectives and Description .........................2
Adjustment Components ................................. 2
Investment Components ................................. 2
Project Design and Organization ............................ 3
Project Implementation ..................................... 4
Project Results ............................................ 4
Investment ........................................... 4
Adjustment ............................................ 6
Economic Analysis ..................................... 7
Project Sustainability ..................................... 8
Risk Factors .......................................... 8
Bank Performance ........................................... 8
Borrower Performance ....................................... 9
Project Relationship.                                                      9
Consulting Services.                                                       9
Technical Assistance.                                                9
Short-Term Consultants.                                              9
Project Documentation and Data.                                            9
PART II    PROJECT REVIEV FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........10
Factual Data .10
Comments on the Analysis in Part I .10
Bank Performance .l
Borrower Performance .l
Bank-CMDT Coordination .l
Cofinancing Agencies .l
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits .12
Project Timetable .12
Credit Disbursements .13
Project Implementation .................................... 14
Project Costs and Financing .15
Project Result (see Annexes) .............................. 16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia, uaties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed w,thout World Bank authorization



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Status of Covenants          ..... . ...... .   18
Use of Bank Resources ................................  23
ANNEXES
Annex 1: V1rious Crop Indices
Key ParameLers used in Economic Analysis ......  24
Annex 2: Economie Feasibility Analysis ...................  25
MAP   IBRD 16520R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND MALI-SUD RURAL DEV8LOPMENS PROJECT
Credit 1415-MLI
PREFACE
This is the Project CompletUon Report (PCR) for the Second Mali Sud
Rural Development Project, for which Credit 1415-MLI in the amount of SDR
24.1 million vas approved on January 23, 1984.  The Credit vas closed on
September 30, 1990, and vas fully disbursed.
The PCR vas jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department V, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III), and the Borrover (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR vas started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in January 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrover, and internal Bank
memoranda.



iii
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND MALI-SUD RURAL DEVELOPYENT PROJECT
(CR. 141S-NLI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The Second Mali Sud Rural Development Project (Cr. 1415-MLI) vas
the first project in Mali which combined financing for a major policy
reform program with project financing of more traditional project
components, i.e., a combined sector adjustment/investment project. The
broad objectives of Mali Sud II vere in accord with Government's policies
of increasing agricultucal production and farm incomes to improve the
velfare and standard of living of the rural population. The project's
specific objective" vere: stab.lize and augment cotton production by
adjusting input and output prices to link better with world market prices;
reorganize the budgetixw, taxation, marketing and cost recovery system for
cotton; augment agricultural production through applied research, extension
and distribution of inputs; develop the financial capacity of the
agricultural credit bank (BNDA); promote village associations capable of
taking an active part in the above activities; and, provide certain
essential needs of the rural population such As vater and health
facilities.
Implementation Experience
2.        Project implementation vas affected by the unexpected collapse
in international cotton prices and the 'Cotton Crisis" that started as a
result in 1985/86. The guaranteed income scheme designed under the Ocash-
cost coefficient" system lacked a downward adjustment mechanism to provide
for collapsing cotton prices. The linkage of the coefficient to
international cotton prices through the aCotton Guarantee Fundm, which vas
inadequate to support the guaranteed income scheme during the Crisis years,
should have instead been established directly between the producer price
and international prices.
Results
3.        The project's production objectives vere exceeded in most cases
(Table 6, Part III). The objective of transferring responsibility for
input distribution, marketing and credit recovery to village associations
(AVs) vas more than fully met. The AVs constitute a major success and
their progress vas made possible by the revenues generated from taking on
the primary cotton marketing functions. With this annual revenue base, the
AVs took on many other rural development functions previously exercised by
public agencies.
4.        Adoption of a vertically integrated network for cotton allowed
for coordination among the several institutions and donors involved in the
cotton sector during the Cotton Crisis, and helped CMDT better manage its
financial deficit. The financial and institutional arrangements under



iv
which CMDT operates; the positive impact on cotton production of the
efficient integrated operation that combines CMDT extension services vith
input delivery and a guaranteed market outlet; and, the complementary
growth in subsistence food crops and cash production are all project
results of Mali Sud II.
5'        The recalculated economic rate of return of the project is 22Z
compared to 34Z at appraisal. The PCR's lover rate of return is largely
attributed to the fall in international cotton prices.
Sustainability
6.        The same factors that contributed to project success, basically
a profitable crop and a strong institution, vill contribute to sustaining
the project's results. The momentum for future agricultural growth in the
Mali Sud area has been put in place, and vill be further strengthened, and
geographically expanded, under the follow-up Mali Sud III Project.
Neverth2less, the risk of declining international cotton prices 18 always a
factor to consider when projecting farmer returns and assessing the long-
term economic viability of a project that largely depends on cotton.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.        The aspect of project design and organization that contributed
most to the project success vas the building of the project on a proven,
efficient institution like CMDT capable of carrying out such a large
program.
8.        Cotton in Mali Sud acts as a motor of development providing the
farmer vith both cash income and food security; a profitable lead crop (or
commodity) provides a sound anchor for building rural development.
9.        Sustainability of rural development in the Mali Sud region has
so far been ensured by cotton revenues and direct levies on cotton. An
adjustment mechanism to contend vith falling vorld prices must be put in
place in order to assure sustainabilit,. The mechanism initially envisaged
under Mali Sud II proved inadequate, but a nev mechanism vas devised and
has been further improved under the follow-up Mali Sud III project.
10.       The success of this project is a result of the positive working
relationships and professionalism of all involved in the cotton sector in
Mali. The competence and efficiency of CMDT in project management and
execution place it at the top of successful cotton companies in West
Africa. The Bank, together with other donors, made significant
contributions to the institutional development of the cotton sector and
ensured the continued financial viability of CMDT.



- v -
11.    Lessons from the project include:
<a) the use of an established and proven institution greatly enhances
the introduction of policy and procedural changes in a subsector;
(b)   the provision of social sector services is facilitated in rural
areas if there is a strong economic activity to "carry" these
public sector services; and
(c)   the design of any crop pricing formula designed to provide
production incentives and still be self-supporting must take into
account all possible scenarios affecting inputs and outputs,
especially major price fluctuations when dealing with an
internationally traded commodity.



MALI
SECOND MALI-SUD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1415-MLI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART li PROJECT REVIEW PROM BANR'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name:           Second Mali Sud Rural Development Project
Credit Numbers  1415-MLI
RVP Unit:       Africa Region
Country:        Mali
Sector:         Agriculture
2. Background
2.01      The Second Mali Sud Rural Development Project (1984-1989) vas a
follow-up to the First Mali Sud Agricultural Project 'Credit 669-MLI,
US$15.5 million, 1977-1983). Mali Sud I vas "'a first IDA integrated rural
development project with a special focus on cotton production in Mali. Its
broad objectives vere to develop further the country's cash and export
crops, and to initiate a comprehensive development program in the Mali Sud
region. The Mali Sud region, covering most areas of the country south-east
of the Niger River with one quarter of the country's population, and
receiving adequate rainfall, vas the most suitable area for expansion of
production. Mali Sud I vas successful particularly in promoting a
sustainable production system and strengthening institutional development
in the region.
2.02      Sector Development Objectives.  In the early 1980s, the broad
objectives of IDA rural sector lending to Mali vere to:
(a)  concentrate rainfed agriculture support investments in the
areas with maximum potential;
(b) give priority to consolidating existing systems in
irrigation, before contemolating expansion through new
investments;
(c) support the development of private trade and informal
producer groups through training and improved price
incentives, so as to increase farmer participation in
support services (e.g. input supply) and reduce public
recurrent cost burdens over time; and



2
(d)  m.nimize the financial controls and to promote the
financial independence of key agribusinesses durinb a
difficult transitional per'od in the national economic
environment.
3.   Project Oblective. and Description
3.01      The broad objectives of Mali Sud II were in accord with
Government's policies of increasing agricultural production and farm
incomes to improve the velfare and standard of living of the rural
population. Mali Sud II was the first project in Mali which combined
financing for a major policy reform program with project financing of more
traditional project components, i.e., a combined sector adjustment/
investment project.
3.02      Adjustment Components:
(a) to stabilize and increase cotton production t.hrough an
input and outp'lt pricing program which is consistent with
world market opportunities, and would achieve comparable
levels of Government revenue in the medium- and long-term
at lower tax tdtes, higher volumes and lower average
processing costs;
(b) to reorganize institutional arrangements for budgeting,
taxation, marketing and cost recovery for cotton and
related activities, including a new mechanism to protect
the system from temporary price and volume fluctuation;
3.03      Investment Components:
(a) to increase production of cotton, of coarse grains (maize,
sorghum, millet), cowpeas, rice and livestock, all of which
depend directly or indirectly on a healthy cotton sector,
through specific input delivery and extension programs;
(b)  to secure future improvements of agricultural production
through applied research;
(c) to promote independent farmer organizations (AVe) through
incentives to absorb various tasks undertaken by Goverrment
and CMDT, and
(d) to meet basic needs of farmers in the area through village
vater supply and primary health services whose basic
operation and maintenance vill be the responsibility of
farmer organizations.
Most of the investment components vere to be implemented by CMDT, but few
were to be implemented in collaboration vith national agencies such as the
livestock, village water supply and primary health services components.



3
4. Project Desigt, and Organization
4.01      The design of the sector adjustment components concentrated on
reforme in the cotton sector. Specifically, they included: (i) the
definition of a guaranteed producer price ensuring a minimum income to
farmers. The rcash-cost coefficient" (total fertilizer and pesticide costs
as a percentage of gross revenues per hectare of cotton), specified a
minimum margin to be paid to farmers taking into account increases in input
prices. The coefficient was to be sufficient to ensure adequate cotton
supply response, while gradually phasing out input subsidies; (ii) the
creation *3f a price support fund, the "Cotton Guarantee Fund", which was to
support this guaranteed income from cotton production; (iii) a gradual
reduction of fertilizer subsidies to align vith international prices by the
end of the four-year project implementation period; (iv) the establishment
of an institutional network consisting of CMDT, SOMIEX, OSRP, BNDA, and
BDM. CMDT was to be responsible for cotton production, SOMIEX for cotton
exporte, BNDA for agricultural credit, while the cotton accounts were to be
kept at BDM.
4.02       This institutional network vas to be centeied on the *Cotton
Account", an account which received all cotton export receipts and from
which the respective institutions vere to be reimbursed according to
preapproved budgets. OSRP was to administer both the Cotton Account ar.d
the Cotton Guarantee Pund. In order to ensure that funds were properly
allocated, a 'Co-Managern countersigned all transfers from the Account and
the Fund.
4.03      The major concern in the design of the adjustment components vas
to reduce governient control of CMDT and to assure that cotton producer
prices did not continue to erode. Producer prices were treated as a
residual in the cotton "bareme", a commodity price and tax system which in
the lat 70's became a major mechanism for resource allocation in several
subsectors , including cotton, and a key determinant of national monetary
and fiscal policies. As a result of a highly inefficient SOMIEX, the
farmer obtained less than his fair share. The design of the cash-cost
coefficient as a corrective pricing mechanism was to reverse the above
trend and secure adequate revenues from cotton production.  Revenues from
cotton cross-subsidized the fertilization of other ceteal crops since all
inputs on cereals were paid for from cotton revenues.
4.04      The policy design package in many ways reflected the most
feasible inatitutional arrangement at the time. Giving control of export
revenues back to CMDT, i.e., cutting out SOMIEXIOSRP was viewed &a the
logical first step in institutional reform, but that was not feasible and
therefore, adjustment measures had to be introduced to improve the policy
environment in which cotton vas produced and exported. The project, though
innovative at the time, was not perceived of originally as an adjustmentl
investment package.
4.05      The project was very well prepared and its timing appropriate,
as it also was a follow-up to Mali Sud I. The roles and responsibilities
of the involved institutions and agencies were clearly defined and
understood, but that was not the major issue affecting project
implementation. The inability to carry out such investment components as



4
livestock, health, and water supply vas due to the absence of national
policies and appropriate national agencies to coordinate vith CMDT. As for
the adjustment components, the issue vas the existence of strong
institutional conflicts and different interests, especially in the cotton
institutional network.
4.06      The aspect of project design and organization that contributed
most to project success vas the building of the project on a proven,
efficient institution like CMDT capable of carrying out such a large
program. Also, the project vas designed with a long-term development
strategy in mind, building on past achievements of Mali Sud I and seeking
improvements in the responsibilities and performance of the agencies that
were grouped into the cotton institutional network.
5. Project Implementation
5.01      The most critical variances between planned and actual project
implementation arose from the unexpected collapse in international cotton
prices and the 'Cotton Crisis" that started as a result in 1985/86. The
guaranteed income scheme designed under the cash-cost coefficient system
lacked an automatic dcwnward adjustment mechanism to provide for collapsing
prices. The linkage of the coefficient to international cotton prices
through the Cotton Guarantee Fund which was inadequate to support the
guaranteed income scheme during the Crisis years, should have instead been
established directly between the producer price and international prices.
The coefficient worked as long as relative price relationships remained the
same, but when these changed, the coefficient system failed and had to be
abandoned during implementation. During the Cotton Crisis, the adjustment
program was reformulated and a Cr'sis Management Plan vas put in place
.ahich helped CMDT better manage its financial deficit.
5.02      Some investment components also suffered because of the collapse
in cotton prices. Resources vere needed to finance recurrent expenditures
during the Cotton Crisis, and there vas a significant reallocation of
expenditures avay from investments and into the cotton institutional
network. Thus, for example, only a small portion of the rural roads
component vas actually implemented. Since no transfers could be made by
the Government to the Cotton Guarantee Fund in the Crisis years, the
deficit incurred vas financed by donors. Subsequently, concerted donor
actions led to the Stabex compensation received by the Government for its
cotton exports being finally used to contribute to financing the cotton
sector deficit.
6. Project Results
6.01      Investment:
(a) The project included the following principal componentss
(i) extension, input distribution and applied research for
increased rainfed crop production; all targets vere
exceeded (Table 6 of Part III) except for maize, which
encountered unforeseen marketing problens. (ii) credit;
(iii) village associations; (iv) rice; (v) livestock;



(vi) village vater supply; (vii) feeder roade; and
(viii) health.
(b) Credit: the firet CMDT-BNDA protocol on the administration
of the credit program in 1982 had, as a main objective, the
transfer of most of the credit activities to BENDA. BNDA's
branch nctwork vas to be strengthened under the project.
However, CMDT vas to continue to screen individual loan
applications, and to channel them to BNDA for disbursement
and loan administration. Also, CMDT vould handle all
deliveries of equipment, installation verification and
assistance with loan recovery in areas where BNDA vas not
sufficiently represented. In fact, only few of the credit
activities vere transferred to BNDA, due to the limited
outreach possibilities of BNDA, inadequate credit ceilings
allocated to BNDA to satisfy rural demand and reluctance of
CMDT to cooperate in the scheme in such circumstances.
BNDA, in order to minimize its risks, avoided serving less
well-off farmers with initial animal-drawn equipment loans.
In 1986, the protocol was amended to allow CMDT to
intervene again in agricultural equipment and rock
phosphate loans to individual farmers, but also to transfer
from CMDT to BNDA short-term credit for inputs in order to
reduce CMDT financial costs and to amortize BNDA regional
and local agencies. This transfer has encountered
implementation problems, and repayment rates vere lover in
BNDA than in CMDT. A new agreement vas reached between
CMDT and BNDA in 1989 whereby BNDA is to serve the villages
organized in Village Associations for all credit needs,
whereas CMDT is to serve non-organized or 'classical"
villages for all other agricultural equipment needs (mostly
basic equipment and inputs). This distinction is the
appropriate division of labor between BNDA and CMDT. As
more villages become organized in Village Associations,
they will 'graduate' from CMDT to BNDA for credit purposes.
(c) AVa: The AVs vere first put in place by CMDT in 1974175
vith the objective of transferring responsibility for input
distribution, marketing and credit recovery to the
villages, thereby leading farmers to self management and
reducing operating costs of CMDT. The objective was more
than fully met as currently there are about 1200 AVs in the
CMDT zone handling 70Z of primary cotton marketing and
managing CFAF 4 billion in agricultural credit. The
experience of the AVs is a major success in the project.
The progress of AVs was made possible by the revenues
generated from taking on the primary cotton marketing
function, whereby AVs were remunerated to the extent of the
primary marketing cost savings realized by CMDT.
(d) Irrigated and rainfed rice: the objectives of Mali-sud II
project vere to rehabilitate or improve 4200 ha of
irrigated or rainfed rice. Only about 1200 ha of those
areur vere rehabilitated or improved. The implementation of



6
rehabilitation works vas particularly weak because some
perimeters vere found to be economically unfit for
rehabilitation.
(e) Livestock component: the objectives of health and nutrition
coverage of livestock have been partially achieved, with an
emphasis on the draft oxen. During the first part of the
project, CMDT staf" experienced difficulties in achieving
collaboration with national livestock service agents. The
livestock services improved drastically when an agreement
was reached that national agents vere seconded to CMDT to
work under direct CMDT supervision.
(f) Rural vater supply: the rural vater supply component vas
successfully implemented and the implementation targets for
vell construction vere even exceeded (from 450 to 529
wells), as unit costs vere lower than expected. However,
the tubes installed were inappropriate for the local
corrosive vater and contaminated the water. Those tubes are
now being changed. Only few vater user associations vere
created and the cost recovery program which vas to be
launched by CMDT for wells did not vork vell. Only 178
villages in 1988 had paid their participation to the costs.
The existence of an adequate number of vater user
associations vith a good cost recovery record is now a
condition for the drilling of new vells in the context of
the Mali-Sud III project.
(g) Rural feeder roads: only une third of the rehabilitation
planned for the feeder roads (3000 km expected) vas
completed in the first years of the project, and the
construction of 30 km of new roads in Mali-Sud was not
realized. The rural roads component vas scaled down as
money was reallocated from road construction to finance the
cotton crisis in the middle of the project implementation.
(h) Health: the problems encountered vith the health component
were due again to a difficult collaboration between CMDT
and the national services. The national health programs
were required to undertake all the training (bi-annual
training of 500 existing village health vorkers and 250
traditional birth attendants, and training of their
trainers). They did very little and CMDT finally took over
all distribution of medicines and supervised the training
programs.
6.02      Adjustment:
(a) The creation of a vertically-integrated network for cotton
allowed for coordination among the several institutions and
donors involved in the cotton sector during the cotton
crisis. The Cotton Account, which vas at the center of
this network, created a forum that proved indispensable in



7
dealing with the Crisis. Tt also allowed for transparency
in financial flovw and better accountability of financial
transactions. This helped Mali and CMDT survive the Crisis
with amaller deficits than other West Africar, cotton
corporations and with relatively few disruptions. Added to
the institutional framework, the availability of an
adjustment credit already in place made reallocation of
resources between the investment and adjustment components
feasible, and averted the risk of financial bankruptcy of
CMDT.
(b) The findings of this PCR in many ways support the
conclusions of the OED evaluation of cotton rrojects in
other West African countries 1/, and the OED report on
World Bank Experience with Rural Development. 2/ The
financial and institutional arrangements under which CMDT
operates; the positive impact on cotton prouuction of the
efficient integrated operation that combines CMDT extension
services with input delivery and a guaranteed market
outlet; the complementary growth in subsistence food crops
and cotton cash crop production are all project results of
Mali Sud II that support the above OED conclusions
regarding cotton operations in West Africa.
6.03      Economic Analysis
(a) The recalculated economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project is 22Z compared to 34Z at appraisal. Project costs
and benefits have been estimated over a 20 year period.
Most of the PCR economic analysis assumptions are
consistent with the appraisal assumptions. The rate of
return vas estimated based -n the total effects of the
policy reform program and project investment combined. All
costs and benefits are expressed in 1985 constant prices.
Ainnex 1 lists the major assumptions and key parameters and
indices used in the economic analysis. Annez 2 presents
detailed costs and benefits, economic prices for the
individual crops from which incremental benefits are
derived, and sensitivity analysis of the obtained ERR.
(b) The lover rate of return obtained in the PCR compared to
the appraisal report is largely attributable to the fall in
cotton prices and the Cotton Crisis of 1985/86. The lower
sale prices for cotton used in the PCR could not have been
anticipated at the time of appraisal, though a mechanism to
deal with changing world prices could have been designed as
1/Operations Evaluation Department: Report No.6878. Impact Evaluation of
Cotton Development Programs in Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire and Togo; June
30,1987.
2/Operations Evaluation Department: Report No.6883. World Bank Experience
with Rural Development,1965-1986; October 16,1987.



8
described earlier. In addition, the opportunity cost of
labor estimated at appraisal vas 650 CFAF/day. Currently,
the opportunity cost of labor varies between 300 and 500
CFAF/day depending on the time of season and whether hired
or family labor ia being considered. If labor cost vere to
be reduced to 300 CFAF/day, the PCR's rate of return would
increase to 28Z. The above ERR estimates do not, however,
capture unquantifiable benefits such as the improvement in
human resources and living conditions and the development
of basic infrastructural facilities which have been
significant in this project.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01      The same factors that contributed to project success, basically
a profitable crop and a strong institution, vill contribute to sustaining
the project's results. The momentum for future agricultural growth in the
Mali Sud area has been put in place, and will be further strengthened, and
geographically expanded, under the follow-up Mali Sud III project.
7.02      Risk Factors:  The risk of declining international cotton prices
is always a factor to consider when projecting farmer returns and assessing
the long-term economic viability of a project that largely depends on
cotton. The medium- (1995) and long- (2000) term price projections are
good, but there can always be severe short-term fluctuations from trend.
7.03      Sustainability of rural development in the Mali Sud zone has so
far been ensured by cotton revenues and direct levies on cotton; an
adjustment mechanism to contend with falling world prices must be put in
place in order to assure sustainability. The mechanism initially envisaged
under Mali Sud II proved inadequate, but a new mechanism vas devised and
has been further improved under the follow-up Mali Sud III Project.
Another alternative would be to separate functions whereby the government
increases its involvement in rural development activities while CMDT
carries out commercial cotton activities. This runs the risk of
substituting a successful arrangement with a less viable alternative.
Instead, national policies should be adapted pragmatically for Mali Sud to
take account of tC history of the CMDT/farmer wmultipurpose* relationship
and the logistics 1 the cotton sector.
8. Bank Performance
8.01      Through the Mali Sud II project, the Bank made significant
contributions to the physical and institutional development of the cotton
sector and ensured continued fi-ncial viability of CMDT.  Bank staff
contributed to the success of t..e project through supportive working
relationships and constructive dialog ç8 with all relevant parties, and by
providing appropriate technical advice to the executing agency CMDT.
8.02      The Bank's supervision effort of the investment components
suffered from the concentration on the Cottun Crisis, but that did not
impede project implementation; on the contrary, it vas a reflection of
CMDT's reliability in carrying out the project investments with minimuA
supervision from the Bank. The Bank was much more involved in the



9
implementation of the sectoral adjustment component, in donor coordination,
and in facilitating the cooperation between CMDT and other donors.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01      The competence and efficiency of CMDT in project management and
execution place it at the top of successful cotton companies in West
Africa. CMDT has acquired a wealth of experience from implementation of
several projects as well as from technical advice and interaction with
donors and expatriate consultants provided under various projects. Major
institutional benefits of this interaction are the improvement in
procurement procedures and a good use of donors to solve internal problems,
two factors that contributdd to strengthening CMDT vi3-a-vis countervailing
agencies.
10. Project Relationship
10.01     The success of this project is a result of the positive working
relationships and professionalism of all parties involved. A donor
coordination mechanism was successfully developed for Mali Sud II
supervision. Supervision missions and all major decisions were undertaken
jointly. Joint interventions by donors were requested by CMDT and managed
carefully by the Malians. Donor cooperation successfully continues during
processing of the Mali Agricultural Sector Credit.
11. Consulting Services
11.01           Technical Assistance:  The heavy reliance of CMDT on
technical assistance staff from CFDT, especially in its financial complex
was noted. This could be explained by CFDT's vested interests in CMDT's
financial management operations and the great difficulty CMDT had in
attracting capable Malian finance staff.
11.02           Short-Term Consultants:  CMDT hires too many short-term
consultants and if anything it reflects CMDT's maximum use of borrower's
resources as it continuously finds it convenient to do so.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01           The Credit Agreement was quite adequate and appropriate for
achieving project objectives in the key organizational and financial areas.
The SAR provided a useful framework for both Bank and CMDT for review of
project implementation.
12.02          As for the availability of data for preparing the PCR, a
great deal more could be done in terms of efficiently collecting the data
needed especially for part III of the PCR if monitoring vere more clearly
defined in terms of indicators and ways of collecting the data.



il
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Factual data
The factual data contained in Part III of the Project Completion
Report are accurate.
Comments on the Analysis in Part I
Maize cultivation
In point of fact, the maize production and productivity targets vere
not achieved, as this crop vas hampered by the low level of processing available
(since maize is a grain for the "lean period" between crops) and by the
reorganization of the grain market which put an end to the system of guaranteed
prices and guaranteed sales.
Farm credit
Before the CMDT-BNDA protocol of agreement, it had been agreed that
BNDA would intervene only when, as a result of CMDT operations, a certain
technical level of production had been achieved or an effective organization (of
a "mutualiste" or cooperative type) had been set up. As a result, the following
division of labor for the allocation of farm credit vas agreed:
*     BNDA vould operate  in the village  associations  and handle  loans to
individual farmers using more advanced methods;
*     CMDT would be responsible for initial equipment loans outside           the AVs.
It had also been agreed that account would be taken of the specific economic
conditions prevailing on the holdings that were to be equipped.
BNDA vas unable to handle this task properly, for the following
reasons:
*     lack of personnel;
*     lack of local knowledge;
*     difficult lending conditions,
and as a result CMDT vas forced to continue to play a primary role in the
granting of farm credit.



12
Divers ificat ion
Efforts to diversify rural crop-production activities should be
encouraged and promoted in order to establish profitable new lines of activity.
Consulting services
CMDT is currently receiving advice f rom fifteen Dutch experts, seven
CFDT technical assistants and one French expert financed by the Fonds d'Aide et
de Coopération (FAC).
Some of these specialist positions also include a Malian counterpart,
thus enabling the next generation of experts to be trained and nurturing skills
within the Corporation.
The success achieved by CMDT has been due in large measure to a long-
range training policy that has nov resulted in all production and ginning
activities being overseen by local staff.
Bank performance
The Bank has displayed a great deal of goodwill. Monitoring by the
supervision missions was constructive, and frequent contacts between the project
managers and Bank officials allowed corrections to be made on every visit. The
Bank also played a useful role as intermediary between the Borrover and IFAD in
managing the latter's funds. Overall, it is true to say that relations between
the Bank and the Borrower reflected determination on both sides to bring the
project to a successful conclusion.
CMDT performance
CMDT displayed great efficiency in execution of the project. The
various components were implemented in accordance with the objectives jointly
agreed between the donors and the Borrover.   CMDT had occasion to suggest
technical changes during the project implementation phase. It also gained useful
experience in managing a Bank-financed project, which should result in smoother
implementation of the Third Mali Sud Project.
Bank-CMDT coordination
Relations between the Bank and CMDT vere generally good, allowing
the project to be implemented properly.
Cofinancing agencies
The cofinancing agencies generally performed well. Difficulties with
the requirements for managing financing resources should, however, be noted.



13
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
__________________ ___
1. R.lmt.d Bank Croditu
Yser of
Cr-dit Titi.           Purpome                  Approval         Statue
Cr«dit 689-MLI   Expansion of Cotton            Dec_ b.r 14,    Co pl-tad on
Mali Sud        end certals cultlvation            1976         Decomber 81,
Agricultural    through improving extonsion                        1984
Proj ect        services, Tnt.r..diat.
mchanizmtion, village
ausociations, production
of iproved * eds,
targotlng of cr«dit enid
mppild rec.rch
2. Project Timetable
Date                Date               Date
Item                         Planned             Revised             Actual
Identification               01/05/81                                01105181
Preparation                  1981-1982                               1981-1982
Appraisal                     09/28/81                                09/28181
Credit                        06/27/83                               06/27/83
Negotiations
Board Approval               10/11/83                                10/11/83
Credit                       01/23/84                                01/23/84
Signature
Credit                       08/09/84                                08/09/84
Effectiveness
Project                      09/30/88                                03/30/90
Completion
Credit                       03/31/89            09/30/90            09/30/90
Closing



14
3 - Credit Disbursements
__ ________________________
Cumulative Estimated &nd Actual Disbursements
---------------------------------------------
(US$ Million)
Bank FY                84       85       86       87        88       89       90
A praisal              4.7     10.0     15.0     19.5      24.1     24.3     24.3
Êstimate
Actual                 3.0      4.7     15.4     21.8      25.5     27.9     28.2
Actual as Z
of Estimate            64Z      47      1032     112Z     106Z      1152     116Z



15
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Appraisal
Components                                                Estimate      Actual
(1988)      (1988)
- Irrigated/Rainfed Rice
Rehabilitation -- small irrigated perimeters (ha)        1,600         150
Rehabilitation -- Klela Plain -- left bank (ha)          1,100         180
Improvement -- bottom land -- rainfed terraces (ha)   1,500            870
TOTAL (ha)   4,200        1,200
-  Livestock -- health/nutrition coverage (full vaccination)
No. of heads of cattle           630,000      400.00
of which draft oxen              170,000      160,JOO
- Vater Supply
No. of wells                         450          529
- Rural Feeder Roads
Rehabilitation (kms)               3,000        1,000
Construction new roads (kms)           30           0
- Use of Inputs
NPK cotton (tons)                 18,500       17,416
NPK cereals (tons)                 4,700        1,896
Urée (tons)                        4,600        7,860
- Agricultural Equipment on Credit
- Cultivators                      7,000        7,464
- Plows                           13,000        5,430
- Planters                        10,000       11,363
- Cart axles and wheels            7,500        7,063
- AVs Development
Total no. of AVs                   1,138        1,189
Increase of ZAER (no.)               144           35
Decrease of ZER/ZAF (no.)             82            -



16
6 - Project Costa end Financing
________________________________
A. Project Costa
(USS Million)
Category                      Appraisal Estimate            Actual
Civil Worke                             12.1                       11.8
Vehicles and Equlpm-nt                   4.2                        4.6
MUdlum-Term Credit                      18.0                       17.1
Expatriat. Staff                        14.1                       16.7
and Consultants
Trlaining                                2.1                        1.0
Fertillzers/Pesticldes                  16.2                       18.3
Operattng Costa                         12.1                       16.S
Other 1/                                 6.2                        6.4
TOTAL                          84.0                       90.2
l/ Other tnclude seeds, ltv-stock Inputs end studios
Commente: The increase of the total project costs In US dollars le sol-ly due
to the *volution of the exchange rate between the SOR end the US dollar.
B. Project Flnancing
____________________
(US3 Million)
Planned
Source 1/                           (APR Report)                  Final
IDA                                     26.9                       29.8
IFAD                                    13.0                       16.3
CCCE                                    11.3                       11.8
FAC                                      4.2                        4.2
FRANCE                                   2.2                        2.2
NETHERLANDS                              4.1                        4.1
BNDA                                     2.7                        2.7
BENEFICIARIES                           11.5                       11.6
COVERNUENT                               9.1                        9.1
TOTAL                          84.0                       90.2
1/ Exponditur- Categories ère listed in Table A. above
COMMENT: the difference between the planned end the ftnal total in US dollars
la due to the evolution of the *xchange rate betwe.n the SDR end the US dollar.



17
6. PROJECT RESULTS A/ Direct Benefits (CMDT area)
Appraisal Estimates                 Estimated
Indicators                      (5th year of Project)                 Actual
87/88                          87/88
Area developed (ha)
- Cotton                              126,000                       140,511
- Sorghum/millet                      150,000                       183,148
- Maize                                60,000                        42,204
- Rice/Rehabilitation
improvement of irrigated/
rainfed                               4,200                          1,200
- Groundnut                            13,000                        32,419
Production (tons)
- Cotton                              157,000                       186,880
- Sorghum/millet                      165,000                       181,317
- Maize                               152,000                        77,234
- Rice (on rehab. and
improved areas)                       9,350                         2,280
- Unshelled groundnut to be
taken to grading plant
(confectionery)                       4,090                         4,893
Yields (tons/ha)
- Cotton                                     1.25                          1.33
- Sorghum/millet                             1.1                           0.99
- Maize                                      2.7                           1.83
- Rice (on rehab. and
improved areas)                           2.2                            1.9
No. of Cotton Farms                    86,000                         77,259



lb
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
Estimated Actual
Underlying Assumptions    A2praisal Estimate                in full development
ERR                              34%                                 23%
Assumptions
- Project Life                  20 years                             20 years
- Full development              87/88 years                          88/89
- Farm labor valued at          CFAF 650/day                      CFAF 650/day
- Conversion factor             0.95                                 0.95
Comments: The PCR's lower rate of return is largelv attributed to the fall
in international couton prices, which could not have been
anticipated at the time of appraisal.
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
Type of                                        Without      Future
Farm    Farm Incomes per CaDita                Project   vith Prolect  Actual
A1      4 ha (9 people)                        US$ 25                      NA
A2      + improved fertilizer and pesticide                  US$ 35        NA
B1      A1 + 1.3 ha cultivated (one pair of
open + plow on credit)                            US$ 55        NA
B2      A2 + 1 ha cultivated (one pair of
open + plow on credit)                            US$ 85        NA
Cl      5.3 ha (11 people) + buying a
cart/planter/cultivator                           US$ 40        NA
2       GC1 + improved fertilizer and
pesticide use + 2.1 ha cultivated                 US$ 65        NA
NA:  Available information does not permit a meaningful comparison to those
estimates made at appraisal.
D. STUDIES
Study               Purpose as defined                        Impact of
at appraisal            Status            Study
Feasibility          Increasing            Study                Programmation
study for an         irrigated rice        completed by         in the context
additicnal           area from             GERSAR on            of Mali Sud
1,700 ha             4,250 ha to           2,700 ha along       III of 293 ha
irrigated rice       5,950 ha             Klela River           new irrigated
along the                                                       rice
Klela River                                                     perimeters in
1991,
followed, if
positive
results, by
other 926 ha
from 1993 te
1996.



7. Statue of Covenantn
Credit/Projoct
Covenant                                        Agreement        Doadline          Compliance         R.markm
The Borrower shall cause OSRP                 DCA Section            -                yoa
to open and  a intain (1) ln the              4.02(a)
BDN à Cotton Account; end (11) in
the bCL a Cotton Ouarante. Fund
under tera ncd conditions
Satlfactory to the Association.
(a) th. admntttration of tbk                  DCA Section            -                y..
Cotton Account end the  otton                 4.02(a)
Ouarante Fund *hall be entrusted
to the Ceneral Manager of 06RP *nd
a Co-Maneger who» qualiticatlonn
and *xper1mnce, end ter_  und
conditions of * ploy_met *hall
b. eatistactory to the
Assoclation; end (b) no *Ith-
dra-ala thall b.  d trou the
Cotton Ouarant-e Fund end
Cotton Account except under the
authorlty of the joint stgnatures
of the Cenrral Mnnager of 0W
*nd the Co-Manager of the
Cotton Account end the Cotton
Quarante Fund.
Tii Borroer eaàal (i) caun                    DCA Section            -                no               (;) Interent rate lower
BNDA to apply the lendtng                     4.03(a)                                                      than apec;f;ed.
.raa specified ln Schedule 2 to                                                                       (il) not known.
the Project Agres_nt; end                                                                             Pursued ln context
(it) *ither exempt 8NDA from                                                                          of SECAL.
pnyme_nt of the tex lIvled on
interest payunts rec i yd by
B»DA on Ite loane or *llos
B» A to add *ny such tex to
Interent whlch BNDA charges
ite individuel end AV borrovers.
Th. Borrower *hall rvil, wlth                 DCA Section          04/80              no               PN probil.
the Association the tnterest                  4.08(b)
rates reforred to In Section
4.08(a) ln order to maInteln
positive interest rates.



- 2-
Credit/Project
Covenant                                        Agrement         Derdline          Compliance         Remarka
Th. Borrowor hall cause CkDT                  DCA Section            -                no              Overtaken by acc-l-rated
to sel cereals purchanxd by                   4.04                                                    cereail retors progrès.
CMDT for its own account, at a
priee which permit. CHDT to
cover ita full marketing conte.
The Borrover shahl put  into                  DCA Section          04/30              yen
*ffect officiai prices for e-ed               S.02(a)
cotton and for cotton fertillers
end pesticides.
Th. Borrower shall review, ith                DCA Section            -                yen
th. Association th. maximum                   6.02(b)
Cash Coet Coefficient for cotton
farmers end the maximum overali
subsldy on 7i.puta, and màke the
nec.ssary adj utentt.
Th. Borrower shal ensure thit                 DCA Section        end of «ach           no             Government did not put in
the balance ln th. Cotton Quarantes           6.0S(a)            calondar                             *ny *onny.  Unrealistic
Fund bu not lese than 2 blillon IF.                              quarter                              covenant.                                o
starting
06/80/84
Thi  Borrower shall  nsure that               DCA Section            -                y.e
*ny rcelpte from thi  STABEX                  6.08(b)
la respect of cotton producte
of Maii be d.posited Into
th. Cotton Cuarantee Fund.
CNDT shall hlre end mlntaln à                 PA Section             -                y"n
trolninTg  pecialltt ln accounting            2.02(b)
end financlal managent, hos.
quelifications and experience end
terme end conditions of *mployment
shall be satistactory to th
Association.



Cr.dit/Proj ect
Covenant                                        Agreement       D.adlin-           Compliance         R.marks
ChOT shall hiro and  aint.in                  PA Section         03/81/84
unt;l Project completion, an                  2.02(c)
agronomlct with experience in
ric. cultivation, en agronomIat
w1th experlence In conftctionery
groundnuts, a projoct coordinator,
a monitoring end evaluation
speciliat, a finoncial manager,
en agronomiat *Ith experlence
in maixe cultlvation, and a
*peclalitt In foeder road
construction, aIl of *hose
qualifications end experience
end terus end conditions of
_mploy_ot shall b. satisfactory
to the Association.
CDT, BNDA and OSRP shal malnta n              PA Section
records and procedures adequate               2.0S(b)                                 ye4
to record end  onitor the
progrems of the Project.
CMDT shall not engage in *ny                  PA Section             -                                Trust in CODT'n judgmnt In
actllty which shall involve,                 2.08                                                    financial decision.
in the aggrepte, expenditurss
equivalent to more thon
MF 1,000,000,000 par yar.
CNDT shal  add to the price payable           PA Section             -                no              not applicable
by purchnsers of *seaonal input  sold         8.04                                                    to prsent sale.
on credit teres, a commission of                                                                      procedure.
lSX of the cash price had the sale
been made on atrictly cash term.
CiDT shall pay to AVu In the                  PA Section             -                yes
Project Are, during the cotton                8.05
marketing *saon, (i) a fes for
services related to the prlry
marketing of cotton, (li) a 8a
commission on the cash prlce
of fertillxers end pesticides
sold by the AVo, end (111) a 2.5S
comm icsion on ail oututanding
seasonal input advances recovered
in full by the AVu for CMDT.



- 4-
Cr.dit/Proj ct
Covenant                                       Agressent       Dondline          Compliance        Ronarks
CMDT *hall not moaka  ny mediu_-teru         PA Sectlon            -                y"e
cr.ditn to fermers or AVn.                   8.07
CUDT shall maintain, in à fore               PA Section            -                yes
*ith functlons end *taffing                  8.08
satlsfactory to the Association,
Itx central .onitoring end
evaluetion unit under CNDT>n
Project Coordinstor.
CIDT *hall carry out the                     PA Section        03/8i/84             yeu
following studles: Production                8.09(a)
co.t structure end th. accounting
syst .; accessublelty by fermern
vithout agriculturel equlp ont lu the
Projet Ar.é, to the benefit. to b.
dortv.d from the Project end to
determine criterln for *ccese to
credit.. froe the Projoct.
CdDT shaHl carry out à study to              PA Section        03/31/84             yes
determine ho. tractor sales end              8.11(a)
maintenance actlvItl-e  con b.
transferred to the private sector,
end to lnvstigate th. social coste
end benefits of vider tractor uns.
CNDT *hall not purchcse or l.port            PA Section            -                y
*ny tractors prior to the- date of           8.12
execution of the Projct Agreement,
until the  review of the study,
referred to abovo has ben completed.
Th. OSRP shall prpare a cotton               PA Sectlon        09/80/05             y.«
mrketing system  "tdy.                       8.la(1 )
Thi ORP shall review with the               PA Section        12/81/86             y"
Borroer end tho Association,                 8.18(b)
conclusions and recoendatloisn
of thi study rtofrred to above.



Crodit/Proj.ct
Covenant                                        Agreement        D.adlino          Compliance         R.marks
The OSRP shall furninh to the                 PA Section         08/81/86             yes
Borrower end the Asxociation,* a              8.1(c)
plan of action for carrying out
the recom.endations of the *tudy
on cotton marketing systo-.
BDN, CIDT, MNDA end OSRP shall have           PA Section             -                yeu
their *ccounte end financial *tatenents       4.02(a)
for ench fiscal year audited, by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Asociation.
BDM, CdDT, BMNA end OSRP *hall furnith        PA Section         not later
to the Association end the Fund,              4.02(b)            than 6
certiflid copies of audited financial                             onthu
statemente end quarterly progresu                                after
reports of their operations, end                                 the end
an auditors' report of cuch audit.                               of fiscal
year.
In carrying out the Agrlcultursl              PA Section             -                yeo
Credit Component of the Project,              4.03
MNDA and CNDT shall follo, lending
policies end .onitoring end
supervision guidelines satisfactory
to the Association, Including
thou- set out In Schedule 2 of
the Project Agresemnt.
Except es the Asuociation *hall               PA Section             -
agree, MNDA shall not Incur any               4.04
debt greater than 10 tis- the
equlty of BNDA.
baal. kô



24
t - Un- of Bank R.eca
A - Staff V..Js
FY             1977   197S   1979   190    19S1   1982   19        Io0    lm    I"    17    1900    S 'j    1990  TOTAL
P..pa,sii;oe      3.2                           3.8    7.3                                                              14.1
Ap,s.ai9 97.0   29.6                                                                                                    126.5
Negoci aion-                                                  3.1    8.4                                                  6.5
S.peoi.ioe.i                                                         16.0   30.9   2S.8   15.1   16.2   20.0   19.0  143.9
Othe,            0.t    0.3                    0.3    6.0    7.2    6.1    1.t   S6.       2.5    4.6    2.2           37.9
Total             3.s    0.8       o      o    3.9  111.1   39.a   26.8   52.7   30.9   17.6   20.7   22.8   19.0  330.9
B. Missions
Stage of                  Month/   Nuabsr   Day. Tn  Spcializkation         Performance        Typ  of
Project Cycle                 yser    Porsons   Fl-ld    R.prosonted          Rating Statue       Problomo
Through Approioal            12/88         1         6    Economiot                1
Appraioal through            12/84         8        15    Economioto (3)           1
Board Approval                                            Agronomisto (3)
Supervioion                  10/85         a        la                             2              financiol
02/86         1        il                            2
11/86         1        10    Economist               2              *
08/87         1        1e    Economiet               2
09/87         1        26    Econoist               2               *    4
11/87         4       15    Econolisto (2)           1
Agronomiots (2)
06/88
11/88         a        14    Economit/              1
Consultants             1



MALI SUD II:PCR
ECONOUIC FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS
KEY PARAHETERS USED IN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ITEM                              RENA<S
PRICE BASIS          CONSTANT 1986, USINO BAhK INTERNATIONAL UANUFACTURED COODS INDEX.
COTTON PRICES        ACTUAL EXPORT PARITY FARN GATE PRICES ARE USED FRON 1983/84-1988/89,(i..., durin9 projoct ye-rs). PRICES FROU 1989/90 TILL END
OF PROJECT LIFE, ARE OASED ON COUMOITY PRICE FORECASTS IN 1986 CONSTANT DOLLARS.
OTHER PRICES         ALL OTHER CROP AND INPUT PRICES ARE IUPORT PARITY FARH GATE PRICES BASED ON CO W ODITY PRICE FORECASTS IN 1986 CONSTANT DOLLARS.
INVESTNENT COSTS    NET-OF-TAX VAWUES PER INDIVIOUAL TAX RATES, AGCREGATIN¢ AT .9 OF FINANCIAL PRICE.
LABOR COST           CFAF S60/DAY. SAYE FOR HIRED AM FANILY LdOR. LABOR REQUIREMENTS ARE ADJUSTED TO REFLECT INCREASED MECHANIZATION IN PRODUCTION.
CONVERSION FACTOR   STANDARD CONVERSION FACTOR =0.9S. USED TO CONVERT ITEMS AS LOCAL TRANSPORTATION AND UARKETING CHARGES INTO THEIR ECONOUIC VALUES.
t'à
PROJECT LIFE         ESTIMATED AT 20 YEARS WITH NO RESIDUAL VALUES.
INCREMENAL COSTS   VALUED AT 633  OF TOTAL PROJECT COSTS. FARU ECUIPMENT IS REPLACED EVERY FIFTH YEAR AFTER INITIAL INVESTHENT; 8C  OF INVESTHENT COSTS
ARE ADDED FOR MAINTENANCE AFTER VEAR 6.
CRO TH RATES (GR)   PRODUCTION GROWTH RATES WERE O0TAINED FOR THE VARIOUS CROPS WROWN IN THE PROJECT AREA USING LOGARITHIUIC TRENO EQUATIONS AND
BASED ON HISTORIC TIUE SERIES DATA.  GROWTH RATES WERE 8ASED ON TIME SERIES DATA BETWEEN THE YEARS 1983 AND 1988.  CROUTU
RATES WERE ADJUSTED FOR YIELD INCREASES ACHIEVED UNDER TUE PROJECT FOR THE 'MITH PROJECTO SITUATION. ACTUAL PRODUCTION FIGURES
MERE USED FOR THE 'MITH PROJECT' SITUATION FOR THE YEARS 1983/84 TO 1987/88, *WITHOUT PROJECT' PRODUCTION FIGURES MERE INCREASED
BY 16X FOR THE 1984/86 - 1987/88 HIGH RAINFALL YEARS, TO ADJUST FOR THE EFFECTS OF RAINFALL.
ECONOHIC IRR         EIRR CALCULATED 8ASED ON TUE TOTAL EFFECTS OF TUE POLICY REFORM PROGRAN ANM PROJECT INVESTUENT COMBINED.



MALI SUO II-PCR: ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS
PRODUCTION WITH PROJECT (TONS)             83/84       84/86        86/86       88/87        87/88       88/89        89/90       90/91       91/92        92/93
COTTON                                    136174      139100       169667      194783       18880      206381      233636       239242      244984       260864
MAIZE                                      67382       50037       104302      104964        77234      117136      193008       196096      199234       202421
MILLET/SORGIMM                             86171      101867       160066      188433       181317      183311      404136       410601      417171       423846
RICE                                       12819       10700        13960       10199        14362       15023       31928        32183       32441        32700
OTHER CROPS                                 4404        6047         6917       17239        14385       14831       65018        66843       58881        67631
PRODUOTION WITHoUWT PROJECT (TONS)         83/84       84/86        86/86       88/87        8T/88       88/89       89/90        90/91       91/92        92/93
COTTON                                    135174       134633      167376      109808       183223      197097      221236       221350      220717       219227
MAIZE                                      57382       36783        65179       62807        69276      108203       182986      184863      188824       188282
MILLET/SORCHUM                             86171       82300        97227      104497       104965      106809      327605       333858      340324       346911
RICE                                       12819        10378       13061       13168        13287       13406        29741       29396       29020        28812
OTHER COPS                                  4404        4111         4448        4470         4493        4515       44265        44639       45011        46380
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION (TONS)              83/84       84/86        86/88       88/87       87/88        88/89       89/90        90/91       91/92        92/93
-  =   -c-   _-   __-    _   ___ ==     -=      _= - = = --                   _      -__ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _   = -_ = ==_ _ = = ====== = =====___ = _ _ =======_ -_-_- = = -_-==
COTTON                                         O        4607        12182       24966        3867         7684        12399       17892       24267        31637
MAIZE                                          O        14264       49123       42157         7968        8932        10022       11243       12610        14139
MILLET/SORCHUM                                 0        19567       52828       83936        76362       76503        7e630       76745       76847        76935
RICE                                           °          a22         909        3031         1075        I6le         2187        2788        3421         4088
OTHER CROPS                                    O          938        2469       12769         9892       10316        10763       11204       11670        12161
c '
ÉD .
o



98/94        94/96       96/96        96/97        97/98        98/99     99/20ff      2000/01      200I/02      2002/08      20ea/e4
250884       268860      2089a3       276528       282447       289228      296168       30a278       310664       318007       825640
2056SM       20896l      212294       21n691       219142       222648      226210       22983e       233607       23724&       241039
480027       487617      444517       451630       458856       400197      478667       481238       488936       490768       se4700
82902        83226       83492        88769        34030        a4302       84576        84863        a6132       38413         35696
u0a94        69270       68159        61061        61977       62907        63861        64808        66781        66767       67769
98/94        94/96       95/96       9f/97         97/98        98/99     99/2000      20O0/01      2001/02      2002/08     2808/04
216766       218167      208301       201989       194038       184221      172310       159030       141082       121133        9 812
18981e       191187      192390       193893       194168       194683      194902       194785       194287       193858       191943
835819       8se460      887400       874490       881704       88950o      896631       404148       411906       419U6        427848
28172        27696       27186        26034        26044        26411       24734        24010        23238        22414       21638
45747        40110       46470        40827        47179        47527       47871        482e9        48s42        48869       49196
98/94        94/96       96/9f        96/97        97/98        98/99     99/2000      200e/01      2001/02      2002/03     2003/04
40128        498883      6le2         73839        88414       105e05      123868       146246       169472       196874      227828
16850        1776n3      19s4         22297        24973        279s6       31308        36046        39220        43886       49098
77008        7707        77111        77139        77162        77147       77126        77087        77029        7695a       76868
479s         6629        6307         7126         7986        8891         9842        10848        11894        12998       14158
12648        181a0       13689        1423S        14798        15880       16980        16699        17239        17898       18679
-J
o 
i-1



INCREMENTAL AREA REQUIREMENTS (HA):
(INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION/YIELD)            83/84       84/86        85/8s       88/87       87/88       88/89       89/90        90/91       91/92       92/93
COTTON                                        O         3418        9118       18679        2738         67S1        9280       13393       18164        23680
MAIZE                                          O        7769       28741       22949        4332         4862        s466        8120        6864         7697
UILLET/SORGHUM                                 o       19706       63200       84628       76901        77042       77171       77288       77389        77477
RICE                                           0         217         613        2044         726         1090        1476        1880        2307         2767
OTHER CROPS                                   9          903        2383       12325        9S49        9957        10379       10815       112e6        11729
INCRENENTAL LABOR REQUTRqEMENTS (1000 CFAF):
(LABOR VALUED AT 050 CFAF/DAY)            83/84       84/86        86/88       86/87       87/88       88/89        89/90       90/91       91/92       92/93
COTTON                                         O      222197      S92682     1214140      177944       373846      803227      870514     1180660      1539203
MAIZE                                          O      327834     1129798      969583      183022       206426      230610      268690      290019       326181
MILLET/SORCHUM                                 e      676369     1566108     2472439     2249348      2263477     2267240     2260623     2253814      2266201
RICE                                           O       10686       29888       99s29        36346       63133       71883       91642      112458       134381
OTHER CROPS                                    O       28427       69704      360604      279294       291260      303693      316336      329490       343069
TOTAL                                          O     1183412     3378181     6116295     2924954      3177132     3466452     3797704     4178240      4608041
INCREMENTAL INPUT REQMTS.(1000 CFAF)      83/84        841/8       86/86       86/87       87/88        88/89       89/90       90/91       91/92        92/93
COTTON                                         0       85460      227964      468977       68440       143787      232010      334813      454100       692001
MAIZE                                          O       62076      213926      183690       34866        38897       43847       48964        64916       61674
MILLET/SORGCMH                                 O       98526      266001      422639       384504      386210      386863      388431      386943       387386
'ICE                                          0        1620         4292       14306        5076        7629        10322       13169       16148       19296
,'HER CROPS                                  O        4617        11916       61626       47743       49786        51896       54074       s6323        68644
- - - - - ---- -   ---- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - ------------ --- ----------------------------------------------------     -   ---------------- -   ----------- 
TOTAL                                          O      252097      724089     1149136      640417       626310      723728      837441      968428      1118900
c'O
aCa:
x
o 



93/94       94/96       96/96       90/97        97/98       98/99     99/2019     21e0/0l    2001/02       2002/03     29e3/04 YIELD(TON/HA)
3ao36       37338       46706       66269       66170        78097       92708      108717      126860       147361      170630        1.33e
8s28        9670       10835        12138       13595       16223       17043       19077       21350        23889       28726        1.837
77S61       77611       77866       77683        77696       77691       776e9       77630       77672        77496       77400        0.993
a230        3728        4263        4806         6385        S996        6837        7311        8020         8765        9647        1.483
12208       12703       13213       13740        14284       14845       16426       16023      1640         17276       17933        1.036
93/94       94/96       96/96       96/97        97/98       98/99     99/2096     209/el    2001/02       2002/03     2003/04    DAYS/HA
19s2333     2426963     2970807     3692476     4301664      6108774     6026026     7066693     8246250     9578442    llOe445E           100
864534      408649      457776      612824       674370      643173      720074      806016      902046      1009331     1129177           e6
2268370     2270108     2271400     2272233      2272693     2272463     2271830     2270677     2268988      2266748     2263939           46
167464      181760      207328      234226      262618       292269      823648      368426      390978      427283       466423           76
867086      371S63      388486      401899       417808      434226      461171      468669      486706       606331      624660           46
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ----- --------- ----------- ----- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - _ - - -- -   - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -
6099787     6668932     6293797     7013867      7828863     8760906     9792649    10968370    12293968    13787134    15467644
93/94       94/96       95/96       96/97        97/98       98/99     99/2000     2000/01     2001/02      2002/03     2003/64 10o0  CFAF/IHA
760897      933447     1142618     1381721      1654448     1964913     2317702     2717920     3171260      3684016     4263262           26
69024       77368       88879       97103       108767      121784      136346      162618      170801       191116      213809            8
38776e      888063      388274      388416       388477      388466      388347      388160      387861       387478      386998            6
22610       26099       29770        33632       37696       41967       46468       61179       66140        81364       68830            7
61040       63613       66066       68701        71420       74227       77123       80113       83198        86381       89s67            6
1291328     1488470     1713407     1969673     2260797      2591346     2966976     3389980     3869261     4410346      6020656
CQD:
o
r.



FINANCIAL PRICE
MAI!E:IIPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KG)        1989        199         1996        2000
FOB GULF                                   26.6        22.4        21.8        23.4
freight à !neurance                       84.0        34.0        34.0        34.0
FOB DAKAR                                  69.6        66.4        6S.8        67.4
transportation Dakar-Bamako               14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9
MAIZE BALAKO                               74.6        71.3        70.7        72.3
transportation Bamako-Fore Gnte            3.0         3.e 3.0                 3.8         a.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
FARN GATE PRICE                              72          68          68          69
MALI SUD II:PCR
fARH GATE ECONOLIC PARITY PRICES
(CONSTANT 1986 PRICES)
REAL EXCHANCE RATE: USS1 = 320 CFAF
ECONOMIC PRICE (CONSTANT 1986 PRICES)
MAIZE:IMPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KG)        1983        1984        1986        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1996        2008
==    = = =  = =  = = =  = =  = = =  ==   _  =  == =  __    -  =    =   _ _ =  == =   =    = _ _ _  = =  = = =  =  ==  = = ==  _ _ _  ==-- -  -  -   =-=---   - - -   _====
FOB GULF                                   43.2        43.8        36.8        24.0        18.9        24.6        25.6        22.4        21.8        23.4
fraight à inourance                       34.0        34.0        84.0        34.0        34.0        34.0        34.0        34.0        34.0        34.0
F0B DAKAR                                  77.2        77.8        69.8        68.0        62.9        68.6        69.ô        66.4        66.8        b7.4
transportation Dakar-Bamako               14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2
MAIZE BAUW.O                               91.4        92.0        84.0        72.2        67.1        72.8        73.8        70.6        70.0        71.6
transportation Bamako-For  GCote           2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9
---------- --------- ---------- --------- --------- ---------- ------__- ----__---- --------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- -__------
FARM GATE PRICE                              89          89          81          69          64          70          71          68          67          69
FINANCIAL PRICE
SORGH M:IMPORT PARITY PRICE(CFAF/KG)       1989        1990        1996        2000
FO GULF                                   24.0        20.8        19.8        21.8
fr.ight à ineurance                       34.0        34.0        34.0        34.0
FOB DAKAR                                  68.0        64.8        63.8        66.8
transportation Dakar-Bamako               14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9
SORGHUN BAMAKO                             72.9        ô9.7        68.7        70.7
transportation Bamko-Fara Gate             3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.o         3.0         3.o         3.o         3.o         3.0
FARU GATE PRICE                              70          e7          86          68
ECONOWIC PRICE (CONSTANT 1986 PRICES)
F08 GULFJ                                  41.8        38.4        33.8        22.4        18.2        22.7        24.8         20.8        19.8        21.8
fr.ight à inaurance                       34.0        84.0        34.0        34.0        84.8        34.0        34.8         34.0        34.0        34.8
F08 DAKCAR                                 76.8        72.4        67.0        66.4        62.2        26.7        68.0         64.8        63.8        25.8
transportation Dakar-Baako                14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2         14.2        14.2
SORGMUM BAMAKO                             89.2        86.8        81.2        70.O        66.4        70.9        72.2        69.1 68.8                78.8
transportation  amako-Far. Cot.            2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9          2.9
---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- _ -- --- _ --- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- _ -- ---
FARN GATE PRICE                              86          84          78          68          64          e8          69          60          6e 67
2D Z
.1wr



FINANCIAL PRICE
RICE:IMPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KG)        1989        1990        1996        2000
F08 BANGKOK                               74.6        67.3        63.8        63.1
fr.ight à ineurance                      84.0        34.0        34.0        84.0        84.0        34.0        34.0       34.0        84.0        84.0
F09 DAKAR                                108.ô        91.3        87.8        87.1
transportation Dakar-Baméko              14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9       14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9
RICE BOUCOUNI                            123.6       100.2       102.7       102.0
conversion to pddy (651)                 0.05        0.05        0.66        0.66        0.65        0.66       0.65        0.66        0.6ô        0.65
PADDY EQUIVALENT                          80.3        69.0        66.8        66.8
transformation A transportation          18.0        19.0        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0       18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----
FARU GATE PRICE                             62          s1          49          48
ECONOVIC PRICE (CONSTANT 1986 PRICES)
RICE:IMPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KC)        1983        1984        1986        1986        1987        1988       1989        1990        1995        2000
-----   -----=======-   -  -- --                     C
FOB BANGKOK                               88.0        81.6        69.1        57.3        67.3        69.8        74.6       67.3        63.8        63.1
fr.ight à inaurance                      34.0        34.0        34.0        84.0        84.0        34.0       34.0        34.0        34.0        34.0
FOB DAKAR                                122.0       116.6       103.1        91.3        91.3       103.8       108.6       91.3        87.8        87.1
tronsportation Dakar-Bamako              14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2       14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2
RICE BOUGOUNI                             136.2      129.8'      117.3       106.6       105.6       118.0       122.8       105.6      102.0       101.3
conversion to pnddy (661)                0.66        0.65        0.66        0.06        0.e6        0.65        0.66       0.66        0.a6        0. es
PADDY EQUIVALENT                          88.6        84.3        76.2        68.6        68.6        76.7        79.8       68.6        66.3        66.8
transformtion A transportation           17.1        17.1        17.1        17.1        17.1        17.1       17.1        17.1        17 1        17.1
_________________________________________---______------------------------------__-__________________________________________________________
FARU GATE PRICE                             71          67          69          61          61         ce          63          61          49          49
ov



FINANCIAL à ECCNOMIC PARITY PRICES
(CONSTANT 1985 PRICES)
REAL EXCHtA:  RATE  USSI = 320 CFAF
FINANCIAL PRICE
COTTCNWEXPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KC)        1989        1990        1998        2008
======DD=-~~~~~~ =DD===-=----------
CIF EUROPE                                   J94         400         374         349
transport.  fright ,   inmuranc               80          80          80          80
FIER FACTORY GATE                           314         820         294         269
deprociatlon                                  20          20          20          20
ginning conto                                 60          60          e0          s0
COTTON GRAIN .quiv. FIGER Factory            234         240         214         189
conversion to rn. cotton (485)             0.4          0.4         0.4         0.4
COTTON GRAIN Factory                          94          90          86          78
arketing charig                               a                       a     3     a
coll cting                                    9           9           9           9
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-----
FARN CATE PRICE                               82          84          74          64
Fa >
on 
(D J



ACTUAL PRICE: 1983-1988
COTTON:EXPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KG)      1983        1984        1986        1986        1987        1988
CIF EUROPE                                 750         606         379         419         437        650
FREICNT, INSURANCE, TRANSPORTATION          9S          96          91          se          7S          73
PROCESSINC AND OTHER CHARGES               200         200         187         124         108         100
COTTON GRAIN E4UIV. FIBER FACTORY          46?         828         116         187         204         297
CONVERSION TO RAW COTTON (4U)             0.40        0.40        0.40        8.40        0.40        0.40
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------------------------
FARU CATE PRICE                            187         131          46          7S          82        llo
FORECAST PRICE: 1989-2088
COTTON:EXPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KC)      1989        1990        1995        2000
CIF EUROPE                                 894         400         874         349
transport., froight à inwurance             80          80          80          80
FIBER FACTORY GATE                         814         82e         294         289
depreciatIon                                19          19          19          19
ginning conte                               60          se          se          Se
COTTON CRAIN equiv. FI8ER Factory          240         246         220         19S
conversion to rao cotton (4M)            e.40        e.40        0.40        0.40
COTTON GRAIN Factory                        96          98          88          78
mrketing charges                            8                       8           a
coll.ctlng                                  8           8           ô           8
FARM GATE PRICE                             8S          87          77          67
fD fD
x
0J
co
o J



ECONOMIC F-G PRICE (1000 CFAF/TON)          83/84        84/86        85/86        8e/87       87/88        88/89        89/90        90/91       91/92        92/93
COTTON                                        187          131           46           76           82         11           86           87          87            87
MAIZE                                           89          89           81           69           64          70           71           68          68            c8
MILLET/SORGHUW                                  se          84           78           ce          64           68           69           e6          6e           ce
RICE                                            71          67           69           61           61          60           63           61           61           s1
OTHER CROPS                                     67          S7           67           67           67          67           67           67           67           67
INC.ECONOHIC REVENUE (1800 CFAF)            83/84        84/86        86/86        86/87       87/88        88/89        89/90        90/91       91/92        92/93
COTTON                                           O      698277       660387      1871644      299910       883e68      1063884      1666639     2111237      2752379
IAIZE                                            O     1268806      3978949     2908818       609289       625223       711691       764646      867467       961446
MILLET/SORGHUM                                   O     1643628      4120674     6707666      4887199      6202181      6287497     6086186      6071889      6077686
RICE                                             O       21674        63644       164669        64838       96979       137762       142177      174473       208486
OTHER CROPS                                      O       63362       140724       727811      663869       687997       612916      638641       686198       692611
TOTAL                                            0     3686437      8864268    11370498      6316096      739s037      7803860      8167190     8880263      9692607
x
o
Li1



9ea99ee     989865    1e261    10712137    11651987    12410312    13410898             14658487    15819860    17248817    1883792ô
93/94       94/95        96195        98/97        978/8       o.o99      99/28        288/8el     2801/02      2802/08      2083/04
87          87           77           77           77          77           77           67           e7          67           67
68          68           87           67           67          67           67           69           69          69           69
66         6e            es           es           e6           es          es           67           67          67           67
S1          S1           49           49           49          49           49           49           49          49           49
s7          s7           67           57           57          57           57           67           67          67           57
98/94       94/95        95/We        98/97        97/98       98/99      99/208e      28o8/Cl     2001/02      2882/03      2m08/04
8491183     4839868      4781737    Essu51e       ese7864      886382       9S37067      9731459    11364598    la1564e    15264488
1877779     1287912      1383662      1493918      1678208     1973536      2097657      2418103     278198       ae28so4      8387612
ueC254s     s86438       5812228      5814082      6014854     5014609      5013171      6164888       180989     61556803     5149473
244297      281991       aese44       849188       891311      435s68       482282       581290       582794      686911       693768
72e99       758117       78e206       911388       843s5e      876647       910867       946163       982S98     1820198      1059888
18e1eJe2   6lim8ais    12138821    13364112    14738724    16298891    18041034    18791816    20787147    28831682    2654338
oD
o
th



MALI SUD Il: PCR
ECOMNIC FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS (BASED ON INCREMENTAL CASH FLOWS):
COST/REVENUE (<ILLION CFAF)                88/84        84/86       86/80       88/8?        87/88       88/89       89/80        90/91       91/92        92/93
INVESTMENT à RECURRENT COSTS                s078        4034         4408        4111         3911         729         213          238         208          198
INPUTS                                         0         262          724        1149          640         e26         724          837         968         1119
ULBOR                                          O          le3        a378         S11o        2925        3177         3466        3798        4178         4608
TOTAL COSTS                                 6070         6460        8s5e        10378        7376        4631         4403        4871        6363         6923
TOTAL REVENUES                                 O         3685        8864       11370         6816        7396        7804         8167        8880         9693
NET REVENUES                               -6076        -1864         289          994       -1061        2886         3400        3296         3628        3770
ECONOUIC IRR       23.46X
IF THE LABOR COST IS REDUCED TO 300 CFAF/DAY, ECO'OMIC IRR   41.11X
CD CD
Fn 
I.-
o



9sa94       94/96        95/96        96/97        97/98        98/99     99/2000      2000/01      2001/02      2002/03     2003/04
729         213          236          208          196          729         213          236          208          196          196
1291        1488         1713         1970         2261         2691        2966         8390         3869         4410         6021
5100        6669         5294         7014         7829         8751        9793        109e6        12294        13787        16468
7120        7360         8243         9191        10286        12071       12972        14694        16371        18393       20084
10617        16e66       12137        18354        14731        16280        18041       18792        20787        23032       26564
3497        4306         ass4         4168         444U         4216        S089         4197         4416         4e38         4870
- X
o
r'



IBRD 16520R
7O Kayes
Tenenkouo        MOPTI                                                                          MALI
Bondiogoro
-x _-_   SECOND MALI SUD
K \. o                     AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
>                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Massina   Dienne°   
0Mossino    Dienne                                                                     Villoge Woter Supply Sub- Project
Kol cani      « O      Bonamba                                                                J                                                               / a ,  i 1,~) Primary Heolth Core Sub-Project
0                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cotton
Sn        inTomnu                   j                                      Confectionory Groundnuts
O  SmolI Irrigation Perimeters
CMDT LimiE
M  Cottofn Ginneries
Kîmporano                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Isohyets in Millirmeters
Major Roods
River s
?OrOsO                                                                 -.     International Boundories
O         50        OC0       150
-125Q;            E     {                         ;tX-                                                                                                                              _     8
KILOMETERS
I..                                    \VY~~~    ` `\ .  Fo n*. ~ up'` -                                                                          _  __ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
,e  `  r-  ALGERIA
Loogoroni                     BURKINA                                                _             I   \
KA~~~~~~FS
Kolondieba               _<cegO                                         ASO ioMAURITANIA                                                                     x
i                                        {L Si1e°U X t  8                                                                       GAMEIA_--7 IÉ1d               _,b_ y
MN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ iE
\ RI_ {:  K:JlôdoO  K . BlSSAur                                                                          P - ? ,        FASOA
G U I N E A   >-.   q  .,?Kagouon   I                                                    _ j                                                                                   '-Y  y-r( z     <
* COT E           D, I,,as,,~. VOI R E   6                                                                          ' ,D _- _          S1ERRA.  >    r         Izf   NIGERIA
f   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~LE ONE                                       COTE
COTE             DI IE                                                                                          D'IVOIRE 6 -<
.U.m 1590



