P OF F       lCREDIT NUMBER 1415 MLI
Project Agreement
(Second Mali-Sud Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMPAGNIE MALIENNE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DES TEXTILES
and
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE
and
OFFICE POUR LA STABILISATION ET POUR LA
REGULARISATION DES PRIX
and
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU MALI
Dated                       2 3   , 1984


﻿CREDIT NURBER 1415 MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      2.3     , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), COMPAGNIE MALIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES
TEXTILES (hereinafter called CMDT), BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE (hereinafter called BNDA), OFFICE POUR LA
STABILISATION ET POUR LA REGULARISATION DES PRIX (hereinafter
called OSRP) and BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU MALI (hereinafter
called BDM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Mali (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-four million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 24,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
CMDT, BNDA, OSRP and BDM agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to twelve million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 12,100,000) to assist in financing the Project described in
the Development Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agree-
ment) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the   Fund   intends  to  appoint   the  Association  as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, and the
Association is prepared to accept such appointment;
(D) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into bet-
ween the Borrower and BNDA, an amount equivalent to six million
five   hundred    sixty    thousand   Special    Drawing   Rights
(SDR 6,560,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund
Loan provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement will be made available to BNDA on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
(E) by a Grant Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and CNDT in accordance with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount equivalent to twenty-five


﻿-2-
million five hundred thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 25,530,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund
Loan provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement will be made available to CMDT on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
(F) by a Grant Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and OSRP in accordance with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount equivalent to four
hundred sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 460,000) out
of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to OSRP on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CMDT, BNDA, OSRP and BDM in consideration of the
foregoing, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CMDT shall carry out Parts A (1) (a), (b)
(ii) and (d), B, C, D, E, F (3), G, H, I, J and K of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices
and with the assistance of the Borrower's Ministries.
(b) BNDA shall carry out Parts F (1) and (2) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and banking practices and with the
assistance of the Borrower's Ministries.


﻿- 3-
(c) OSRP shall carry out Parts A (1), (b) (i) and (c) of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices and in
accordance with the provisions of the Cotton Guarantee Fund
Management Agreement referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist CNDT, BNDA and OSRP
in carrying out the Project, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) CMDT shall hire and, thereafter, maintain a training
specialist in accounting and financial management whose quali-
fications and experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(c) CNDT shall: (i) not later than March 31, 1984, hire
and thereafter maintain until the Project has been completed
an agronomist with experience in rice cultivation; and (ii)
maintain until the Project has been completed: (A) an agronomist
with experience in confectionery groundnuts; (B) a project
coordinator; (C) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; (D) a
financial manager; (E) an agronomist in experience in maize
cultivation; and (F) a specialist in feeder road construction,
all of whose qualifications and experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CMDT and BNDA undertake to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan made
available to them by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of


﻿-4-
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by CMDT, BNDA and OSRP to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credic or the Fund Loan made
available to them by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall, as the case may
require, furnish to the Association and the Fund, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall: (i) maintain records an(!
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's and the-Fund's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by CMDT, BNDA or OSRP of any contract
for goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BDM, CMDT,
BNDA, OSRP and the Association, BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall
each prepare and furnish to the Association and the Fund a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the


﻿-5-
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by BDM, CMDT, BNDA, OSRP and the Association
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Fund
Loan.
(e) BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall enable the Association's
and the Fund's representatives to examine all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of BDM,
CMDT, BNDA and OSRP and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall duly perform
all their obligations under the Grant Agreements and the Subsid--
iary Loan Agreement, respectively, and the Accord Coton. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, BDM, CMDT, BNDA and
OSRP shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Grant
Agreements or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Accord Coton,
as the case may be, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
their obligations under this Agreement, the Accord Coton, the
Grant Agreements and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the
Fund Loan.
(b)   BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition wiich interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit or the Fund Loan, or the performance
by BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP of their obligations under this
Agreement, the Accord Coton, the Grant Agreements and the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 2,08. CMDT shall not engage in any activity, in
addition to the carrying out of the Project, which shall in-
volve in the aggregate expenditures equivalent to more than
MF 100,000,000 (one hundred million Mali Francs) per year, in-
cluding medium-term credits referred to in Section 3.07 of this
Agreement, unless the nature of and financing for such activities
has been acceptable to the Association and the Borrower.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP
Section 3.01. BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural and indust-
rial practices with qualified and experienced management.
Section 3.02. CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall at all times
operate and maintain their plant, machinery, rolling stock and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial, industrial and agricultural
practices.
Section 3.03. CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04. CMDT shall add to the price payable by
purchasers of seasonal inputs sold on credit terms a commission
which shall be equivalent to not less than 15% of the cash price
which the purchasers would have had to pay had the sale or sales
been made on strictly cash terms.
Section 3.05. CMDT shall pay to AVs in the Project Area: (i)
during the cotton marketing season, a fee for services related to
the primary marketing of cotton, such fee corresponding to CMDT's
budgetary allocation for similar activities undertaken by CMDT;
(ii) a commission equal to 3% of the cash price of fertilizers
and pesticides sold by the AVs to their individual members on a
cash basis; and (iii) a commission equal to 2.5% of all outstand-
ing seasonal input advances recovered in full by the AVs for
CMDT.
Section 3.06. CiDT shall continue to maintain arrangements
in its agreements with BNDA, Direction de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Energie,  Direction   Nationale  de   1'Elevage  and   Institut
d'Economie Rural for the execution of Parts F, K, C and I of the
Project, respectively, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
said agreements or any provision therof.


﻿- 7-
Section 3.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, CMDT shall not make, after the date of
signature of this Agreement, any medium-term credits to farmers
or AVs.
Section 3.08. CMDT shall maintain, in a form with functions
and staffing satisfactory to the Association, its central
monitoring and evaluation unit. The said unit shall be under
CMDT's Project Coordinator and shall include in its functions the
preparation of the Project completion report required under
Section 2.05 (d) of this Agreement in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. CMDT shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1984, carry out the studies
referred to in: (i) Part A (1) (b) (ii); (ii) Part F (3); and
(iii) part D (2) of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1984, review the results of the
studies referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section with the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.10. CMDT shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1985, carry out the study
referred to in Part A (2) (b) of Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1985, review the results of the
study referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section with the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.11. CMDT shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1984, carry out the study
referred to in Part E (3) of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1984, exchange views on the
results of the study with the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.12. Until the review of the study referred to in
Section 3.11 of this Agreement has been completed, CMDT shall not
purchase or import, except for its own use, any tractors in
addition to those already purchased or imported prior to the date
of execution of this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.13. The OSRP shall: (a) not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1985, prepare the study referred to in Part A (1) (b) (i)
of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b) not later than December 31, 1985, review with the
Borrower and the Association conclusions and recommendations of
the study referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c) not later than March 31, 1986, furnish to the Borrower
and the Association a plan of action satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association for the carrying out of the recommendations
of the study referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall maintain records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations and financial condition, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall retain, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, and shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. CMDT, BNDA and OSRP shall:
(a) have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial


﻿-9 -
statements for such year as so audited, (ii) quarterly progress
reports of their operations, and (iii) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors:
(A) on the separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement; and (B) in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan made avail-
able to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund
Loan Account, respectively, on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. In the carrying out of Part F of the Project,
BNDA shall, follow lending policies and monitoring and super-
vision guidelines satisfactory to the Association, including,
inter alia, the lending terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BNDA shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the aggregate principal amount of debt of BNDA then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than 10 times the
equity of BNDA. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The   terms  "debt" means   any   indebtedness  of  BNDA
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a gua-
rantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) The term "equity of BNDA" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of
BNDA not allocated to cover specific liabilities.


﻿- 10 -
(d) Whenever, for the purpose of this Section, it shall be
necessary to value in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable on
the basis of a rate of exchange satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement or
the Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective, whichever shall be
earlier.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Developmunt Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms bofore the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP of this event.
(c) If either the Development Credit Agreement, or the Fund
Loan Agreement, terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the
other Agreement remains in force, all obligations under this
Project Agreement of BDM, CMDT, BNDA and OSRP and of the other
lender under that other Agreement shall remain in force.
(d)   If the Association shall notify BDM, CMDT, BNDA and
OSRP that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under the
Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, all references in this
Agreement to the Fund, to the Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan
Agreement shall, with respect to the responsibilities of the
Association as such Cooperating Institution, be deemed to be
deleted.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand against a receipt or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram, to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CMDT:
Compagnie Malienne pour le
Developpement des Textiles
B. P. 487
Bamako, Republic of Mali
Cable address:                    Telex:
CIMATEX                           972554
Bamako


﻿- 12 -
For BNDA:
BNDA
B.P. 2424
Bamako
Mali
For OSRP:
OSRP
B.P. 2070
Bamako
Mali
Telex:
~    972442
For BDM:
BDM
B.P. 94
Bamako
Mali
Telex:
522 or 535
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement (i) on behalf of CMDT may be taken or executed by
its General Manager or such other person, or persons as the Gen-
eral Manager shall designate in writing, (ii) on behalf of BNDA
may be taken or executed by its General Manager or such other
person or persons as the General Manager shall designate in writ-
ing, (iii) on behalf of OSRP may be taken by its General Manager
or such other person or persons as the General Manager shall
designate in writing, and (iv) on behalf of BDM may be taken by
its General Manager or such other penson or persons as the
General Manager shall designate in writing, and BDM, CMDT, BNDA
and OSRP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
COMPAGNIE MALIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
DES TEXTILES
By    /
Authorized Representative
BANQUE NATIONtT E POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
AGRICOLE
By
Authorized Representative
OFFICE POUR LA STABILISATION ET POUR LA
REGULARISATION DES PRIX
By    /
Authorized Representative
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU MALI
By    /
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, CMDT shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. CMDT shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall 'be
included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mali may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mali
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of CMDT and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mali. equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval--
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the  nportation of the goods offered in


﻿- 16 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the coaparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, CMDT may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by CMDT,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (i) contracts for civil works, other than for the drilling
of wells, estimated to cost less than $500,000 equiva-
lent, but in the aggregate not to exceed $6,300,000
equivalent; and


﻿- 17 -
(ii) contracts for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and
furniture, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equiva-
lent, but in the aggregate not to exceed $1,800,000
equivalent;
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of agricultural equipment, rock
phosphate and village equipment for Part F (1) of the Project,
not to exceed in the aggregate $18,100,000 equivalent, may be
procured through negotiated purchases from established and
reliable suppliers, provided, however, that quotations from at
least three of such suppliers are obtained unless the Association
shall otherwise agree.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, materials and
equipment shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, to form
bidding packages estimated to cost at least $50,000 equivalent.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, fertilizers
and pesticides estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more, and to all contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, CMDT shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CMDT
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other


﻿- 18 -
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform CMDT and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, CMDT shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together. with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule,. promptly inform CMDT and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the     .pulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing a hange order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme u,   7) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than LI/A of the original price, CMDT shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform CMDT and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Lending Terms and Conditions
BNDA shall, in the Project Area, -follow lending terms and
conditions set forth in this Schedule in carrying out Part F (1)
and (2) of the Project.
A.   Purpose
BNDA shall make credits to: (i) individual farmers,
livestock owners, rural artisans and AVs for agricultural
equipment and rock phosphate; (ii) AVs for village equipment and
village investments; and (iii) AVs for agricultural equipment,
work oxen and rock phosphates for lending to individual farmers.
B.   Eligibility
In order to be eligible to receive a credit, farmers and AVs
shall meet lending policies established by BNDA, satisfactory to
the Association.
C.   Terms and Conditions
1.   BNDA shall charge an annual interest rate on the amount
withdrawn and outstanding under each credit of 10% in the case of
credits to individual farmers and of 9% in the case of credits
to AVs or any other rates to be determined by the Borrower and
the Association, pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
2.   For individual credits for agricultural equipment and work
oxen, individual farmers shall be required to provide: (i) at
least 5% in cash of the total cost of inputs financed under such
credits, in case of farmers who are making initial purchase of
such equipment and oxen; and (ii) at least 20% of which at least
5% in cash, in case of other individual farmers.
3.   For credits for the purchase of village equipment, AVs shall
be required to provide at least 20% of the total cost of items
financed under such credits, of which at least 5% in cash.
4.   Credits for agricultural equipment shall be repaid in equal
installments over a period of up to four years with no grace
period.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Credits for rock phosphate shall be repaid in equal install-
ments over a period of up to three years including an adequate
grace period which will not exceed one year.
6.   Credits for village equipment shall be repaid in equal in-
stallments over a period of not less than three years, but not to
exceed seven years with no grace period.
7.   Notwithstanding paragraph C (1) and (2) and (4) above,
credits for the purchase of tractors shall be made on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association upon review of the
study referred to in Section 3.11 (a) of this Agreement.
8.   BNDA shall enable the Association's and the Fund's repre-
sentatives to examine all goods financed under the credits
referred to in paragraph A of this Schedule and any relevant
records and documents.
9.   BNDA shall have the right to suspend or terminate access by
the borrowers to the use of the proceeds of the credits if the
borrowers fail to .perform any of their obligations under the
respective credit agreements.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   3        day of J_     t_
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


