Document of                                           Y
The World BanklbFILr   uPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1089a-GM
APPRAISAL OF
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE GAMBIA
June 2, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Tbis document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only !in t'ie performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit           =  Gambian Dalasi (D)
US$ 1.00                =  D 1.9
D 1.0                   =  US$ 0.53
D 1 million             =  US$ 526,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)         =  2,204.6 pounds
1 square kilometer (ki2)  =  0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
CMB     =    Cattle Marketing Board
GCU     =    Gambia Cooperative Union
GPMB    =    Gambia Produce and Marketing Board
lMB     =    Livestock Marketing Board
LRD     =    Lower River Division
MANR    =    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
NBD     =    North Bank Division
WD      =    Western Division
END OF FISCAL YEAR
Government   =   June 30
GCU          =   June 30
GPMB         =   September 30
1/ The Dalasi is pegged in relation to the pound sterling (£) which is in
turn floating in mlation to the US$; these rates are recent market rates
used for the purposes of this report.



TIHE GAMBIA                   FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  ............    ............................       - Xi
I.       GENERAL BACKGROUND, THE RURAL SECTOR AND GOVERNMENT
INTERVENTIONS IN THE RURAL SECTOR                             1
A. Introduction  .......      ........................        1
B.  General Economic Background  .....    ...........         1
C.   The  Rural  Sector    ...... .....................
D.  Government Intervention in the Rural Sector               9
E.  Government's Strategy and Policies for the
Rural Sector  ........    ....................        13
II.       THE PROJECT AREA AND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS               15
A.  The Project Area                    ]5
B. Agricultural Institutions .18
III.  THE PROJECT .31
A. Brief Description .31
B. Project Phasing .32
C. Detailed Features .33
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    .              .43
A. General .43
B. Field Organization .45
V.       PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  .49
A. Project Costs .49
B. Financial Arrangements .51
VI.       CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES                      57
A. Crops Background .57
B. Crop Recommendations .57
C.  Impact on Yields and Production                          61
D. Present Position of Livestock Industry                    62
E.  Improvements in Livestock Production                     63
This staff report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/British Government mission in
October/November 1975, comprising Messrs. C.P.R. Nottidge, 0. Honisch, A. Osei (IDA) and
J.H.N. Pitman (British Overseas Development Ministry). Mr. B. Braithwaite (Consultant)
appraised the adult functional numeracy component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.     MARKET AND PRICES  ..................................              68
A. Crop Marketing and Prices  .....     .................          68
B.  Livestock Marketing and Prices ..................             71
VIII.     FINANCIAL RESULTS, FAIVMERS AND GOVERNMENT    ..........           73
A.   Farmers'  Benefits  ..............................            73
B.   Government  Revenues    ............................          75
IX.     ECONOMIC BENEFITS  ...................................             78
X.     RECOMMENDATIONS  .......     .............................          81
Table 1.01: Crop Production Estimates, 1973-74
Table 2.01: Agriculture Department - Existing
Disposition of Field Staff
Table 3.01: Seed Quantities Required in the Project
Chart 15663: Rainfall Figures of Three Stations
Table 4.01: Implementation Schedule
Chart 15467: Existing Organization, Ministry of Agriculture
Chart 15468: Proposed Organization, Ministry of Agriculture
Table 5.Ola:Project Cost Summary : Extension and Training
5.Olb:    "   "      "    : Livestock Development
5.01c:   it"    "         : Cooperative Development
5.Old:         t: Seed Production
Table 5.02 :Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Table 6.01: Phasing of Areas, Yields and Production of Improved
Crops
Table 6.02: Herd Projection (Without Project)
Table 6.03: Herd Projection (With Project)
Table 7.01: Operations of the Gambia Produce Marketing Board
Table 7.02: Economic Value of Groundnuts
Table 7.03: Rice Price Structure
Table 7.04: Economic Value of Paddy
Table 7.05: Producer Price - Groundnuts
Table 7.06: Producer Price - Paddy
Table 8.01: Farm Budget - Model I
Table 8.02: Farm Budget - Model II
Table 8.03: Farm Budget - Model III
Table 8.04: Project Cash Flow
Table 9.01: Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 9.02: On Farms Costs
Additional Reports and Data Related to the Project Available in
The Bank (Western Africa Records Station, Room F-336)
MAP - IBRD 11974 - THE GAMBIA



THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SUMMARY
I. Introduction
1.         The Government of the Gambia asked the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
(CP) to identify and prepare an agricultural development project for which it
would be possible to seek external financing. CP report 33/75-GAM 3 of August
6, 1975, which utilized data recorded and brought together by a British finan-
ced study of the natural resources of the    Gambia, and which was completed
in February 1975, was the basis of Government's request to IDA for financial
assistance. During appraisal of the project a number of changes were made
which took account of Government's restricted financial resources, the limited
absorptive capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, and a recent agreement
whereby most irrigated rice development in the Gambia will, in future, be
handled under a Chinese technical and financial assistance program. At the re-
quest of Government project actions, with the exception of one activity, have
been limited to the country's three western Administrative Divisions. This
arrangement provides for more equitable regional development as other develop-
ment projects are already being implemented in the eastern areas.
II. The Rural Sector
2.        In The Gambia, agriculture accounts for 67 percent of GDP and 99
percent of exports. Farms are small and productivity low, rural incomes
average only about US$134. Groundnuts grown as a cash crop use some 50
percent of the farmed area. Food grain production (sorghum, millet, rice)
tends to be low. Farm families are often forced to buy cereals to meet
their subsistence requirements, and arnnual rice imports average up to 20,000
tons. Small animals (sheep, goats, poultry) are kept by all families, but
cattle are only owned by about 20 percent of them.
3.        The Gambia has a single peak wet season from June to October and
an average rainfall of 1,200 mm per annum in the south and 900 mm in the north.
In the Sahelian countries (The Gambia is one of seven countries so classified)
droughts of varying severity occur about one year in five. As a consequence,
an over-all crop shortfall of 20-30 percent is expected once every 20 years,
as was thecase in 1973. Recent studies indicate that 50 percent of the
soil is suitable for crop production, of which less than 20 percent is under
cultivation and 45 percent under fallow. The highest propo-rtion of fertile
soil is found in the Western and Northern Bank Divisions, which constitute the
major area of the proposed project. The Gambia River, a dominant natural land-
mark and potentially the most important natural resource for agricultural
development, is tidal throughout its length in the country. During the dry



- 11 -
season, the reduced flow of fresh water permits salt water to intrude 240 km
upstream. As potentially irriga'ble and productive land remains largely un-
exploited due to the salt intrusion, means of river regulation are being
studied; it will be many years however before any major irrigation schemes
can be realized.
The Structure of Agricultural Production
4.        Crop Production.  The basic farming unit is the compound, an en-
closed group of dwellings inhabited by nuclear families (dabadas) all related
by blood. The average compound size is 22 members, with the eldest male mem-
ber as head. Several compounds constitute a village. Land tenure, shaped
by history and religion, and codified by the parliament, recognizes no in-
dividual right of possession, only a collective right of use. Land is held
in trust by the District Council, whose chief arbitrates between village
headmen. Each headman in turn allocates land recognized as belonging to
his village to compound heads at the beginning of each farming season.
5.        Studies suggest that the area cultivated per adult is similar
throughout the country, ranging from 0.6 ha to 0.8 ha. Data collected for
a number of years, suggest that the productivity of land has been rising
but also that the growth of rural population is faster than that of culti-
vated area. Thus the apparent increase in land productivity, still low by
general standards, appears to result from an increase in labor input rather
than from improvement in the techniques of production. For cereals, average
productivity is 500-600 kg/ha; for groundnuts, 900 kg/ha. Crop production
figures are given below. The low figures for 1973/1974 reflect the end of
the recent Sahelian drought.
--------- ('000) tons --------------
1973/1974                 1974-1975
Groundnuts (in shell)             113                        147
Rice (paddy)                       1S                         23
Millet and Sorghum                 22                         32
(threshed grain)
6.        Methods of cultivation, with the hand hoe the dominant tool employed,
have remained largely unchanged over the years. The use of ox-drawn equipment
was introduced in the 1950s but only some 6,000 pairs of oxen are in use. Labor
provided by the compound is under-employed for the greater part of the year but
becomes insufficient from mid-May to the end of July, when outside labor is often
needed. Shortage of labor has been identified as the single most important
constraint on the expansion of potentially profitable double-cropping of irrigated
rice. This is because all available family labor in May/June is needed on ground-
nut fields and none can be spared to prepare paddy fields for the wet season crop.
In addition to the fluctuation in labor employment, lack of improved and high
yielding seeds impedes the growth of agriculture production. Farmers are aware
of the value of fertilizers but only about 4,000 tons of chemical fertilizers
are used (about half on irrigated rice); household waste and sheep and goat
manure are used on rice fields and cattle are tethered on the sorghum and millet
fields during the dry season.



- iii -
7.        Livestock Production.  In 1974 cattle, mainly the in(ligenous N'Dama
breed, were estimated to number 280,000 head. With a low off-take of 10 per-
cent and a current annual growth rate of 3 percent, livestock contributes
less than 5 percent to GDP. Calving percentage is low at 40 percent and
mortality during the first 12 months is high at 20 percent. Sheep are of
the West African dwarf breed and goats mostly the Guinea type, with off-
take rates of about 30 percent and mortality rates of 15 to 20 percent.
National annual beef production is estimated at about 3,000 to-ns cold
dressed weight; mutton 900 tons; and poultry, 300 tons.
8.        Government Intervention in the Rural Sector.  Government inter-
venes in the sector in three broad categories of action. First, the Gov-
ernment provides nationwide support services for farmers and livestock pro-
dilcers, but the impact on production and farm incomes is small due to the
lack of well planned programs or means to execute them. The second cate-
gory of intervention concerns the marketing of major crops and the fixing
of controlled prices at producer and retail levels for a range of agricul-
tural commodities. The third category is the subsidization of the sales
price of fertilizers.
Agricultural Institutions
9.        Government intervention takes place through four governmental and
parastatal institutions. The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR) provides agricultural and livestock services to farmers through its
Department of Agriculture (crop extension, training and research), Animal
Health and Production (veterinary services and animal husbandry extension),
and Cooperation (support to the Cooperative Movement). Because of limited
manpower and the geographic separation of the headquarters and various
operating departments, coordination of programs has been poor in the past
and the quality of services provided inadequate.
10.       The Gambia Produce Marketing Board buys, processes, and exports
groundnuts and palm kernels; buys locally produced paddy rice from some
participants in Government-sponsored irrigation schemes; and imports rice
and agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and chemicals. Eor groundnuts,
it has a monopoly of purchase and export. GPMB is well managed. In spite
of some transfers to the Price Stabilization Fund (PSF), its reserves now
stand at over US$30 million due to recent high world market prices and good
harvests of groundnuts in 1973/74 and 1974/75.
11.       The Livestock Marketing Board (LMB) created in 1972/73 purchases
live animals up-county and transports them to Banjul for resale to butchers.
Since poor management and procedures resulted in sizeable loss,es, the Gov-
ernment is reorganizing the Board by recruiting better managernent and field
supervision personnel through bilateral assistance.
12.       The Cooperative Movement.  The Government gives direction and sup-
port through its Department of Cooperation in MANR to 64 primary societies
of farmers organized by The Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU). At present, these
societies buy 45 percent of marketed groundnuts on behalf of GPMB, and GCU
provides centralized accounting, purchasing and administrative services as
well as subsistence loans to primary society members.  However, little pro-
duction credit has been made available to farmers.



- iv -
Pricing Policies
13.       Producer prices for groundnuts are set by Government on the advice
of GPMB which takes account of projected world prices and the costs of sub-
sidies on various basic foodstuffs and fertilizers met by GPMB from the
Price Stabilization Fund. Producer prices have traditionally been set to be
rather more attractive than those ruling in neighboring Senegal; this is to
discourage an outflow of procluce.  Since Senegal fixes its producer prices for
groundnuts at levels sufficient to generate substantial revenues, The Gambia
has been able to pay its growers considerably less than the world price and at
the same time to attract some groundnuts from Senegal.  Government policy is
changing however, and for 1975/76, Government has set a price 20 percent
higher than in 1974/75 which, it states, it will maintain in real terms
despite an anticipated fall in the world price for groundnuts.
14.       GPMB also buys paddy rice, but its purchases have been very small
apparently because of the low prices it has offered. For 1975/76, Govern-
ment has increased the price by 14 percent in line with a new policy of
improving returns to farmers even though this may involve increased prices
for domestic consumers. The Gambia imports about 20,000 tons of rice an-
nually and in the past the reltail price has been subsidized to about 85
percent of actual cost. The subsidy has been met from the Price Stabili-
zation Fund. As a consequence of new policies in 1975/76 consumers are
to pay the market value for rice whether imported or domestic. Another
important food staple that has been similarly subsidized is groundnut oil;
for 1975/76 the subsidy has been halved.
15.       The official retail price of beef was D 1.65/kg in early 1976,
but actual retail price at that time had been permitted to drift up to D
2.80/kg, roughly in line with the price on Senegal's free market.  It is
hoped that when LMB recommences operations, it will seek to retain these
higher retail prices and thus permit better returns to producers.
16.       The principal subsidy on inputs is on fertilizers, and is met from
the Price Stabilization Fund. In 1975 about 4,600 tons of fertilizers (about
half for rice and half for groundnuts) were sold, involving a subsidy of about
US$0.8 million.  Farmers pay about 25 percent of farm gate cost.  This subsidy
is paid out of the reserves of GPMB which derive from an effective tax on
groundnut farmers. Its immediate removal is likely to dampen demand which
would be undesirable. Government policy now is to raise fertilizer prices to
farmers only to the extent of the general rate of inflation. With the antici-
pated fall in world fertilizer prices, the subsidy would be partly eroded to
about two-thirds of its present level by 1980.



- v -
17.       Given the Gambia's unusual physical location and small size, the
current level of Government intervention in the marketing of farm produce
appears appropriate. Government's pricing policies also appear sound and
currently are correctly designed to reduce the level of subsidization of
urban dwellers by rural people.
Development Effort, Policies and Long Term Strategy for the
Rural Sector
18.       The Government has initiated four major agricultural development
efforts with external assistance. Three programs have concerned irrigated
rice development through small pumping schemes along the GambiLa River. The
first of these schemes, under which about 2,000 acres were developed satis-
factorily, started in 1966 and was implemented with technical and financial
assistance from Taiwan. The second was financed by IDA in 1972 and was
designed to develop 3,000 acres of double-cropped irrigated rice; to date
some 2,000 acres have been developed. In 1975 these efforts were followed
up by an agreement between The Gambia and The Peoples Republic of China
under which the latter has undertaken to provide financial and technical
assistance for future irrigated rice development. The remaining major
development has been an African Development Bank financed project de-
signed to introduce cotton growing. This project started in 1974 but
is making relatively slow progress due to the low price for cotton com-
pared to groundnuts.
19.       The objectives and strategies formulated in The Gambia's first
Five-Year Developmen| Plan for 1976-1980 are clear and pragmatic: to in-
crease rural incomes and through them the quality of life in rural areas,
especially in nutrition; to eliminate rice imports; and to diversify pro-
duction. The Government intends to attain these objectives by retraining
and better equipping its field services to deliver proven technology pack-
ages to farmers in regions of productive potential; by offering credit
through the channels of a strengthened cooperative movement; and by im-
proving rural infrastructure, especially feeder roads and marketing and
storage facilities. Such Government policy and strategy will be supported
by the project described in this report.
III. The Project
Project Concept
20.       The crop production and livestock husbandry components of the
project would be limited to the three administrative divisions in the
western part of the country--Western, Lower River, and North Bank Divi-
sions (see map). The population of these three divisions. aLmost wholly
rural and illiterate, represents about half of the rural population of
the country. The animal health and cattle marketing components of the
project would cover the entire country.



- vi -
21.       Cver a four year period, the project aims to increase the cereal
and cash crop production and livestock husbandry of some 48,000 people, living
in 65 selected vi lages (2,2COC compounds).  Increased production would be
achieved thircugh the introduction of proven package programs for crop produc-
tion supported by better coordinated and strengthened government services
and improved communicarions and marketing.   Project implementation would be
throughl existing agencies and departments of the Government. A Project Coor-
dinator located in the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources and
responsible to the Permanent Secretary, would ensure the overall coordination
of project activities. The prjincipal objectives and components of the project
would be:
(a) strengthening of the agricultural extension
service by upgrading Government-operated
centers for extension activity and farmer
training; constructing, housing and offices,
improving field supervision; and establish-
ing a training center and visual aids center
for extension workers;
(b) improving livestock production by expanding
animal health campaigns through the provision
of vaccines, drugs, equipment, transport and
training for field staff; better utilization
of dry-weather grazing through the provision
of water and stock routes; introduction of
better livestock husbandry through the provi-
sion of staff and a pilot cattle fattening
program; and the construction of a limited
number of cattle markets, stock routes and
holding grounds;
(c)  supplying farming inputs as credit in kind
to farmers (fertilizers, seed, draught oxen
and implements) through a strengthened and
better trained cooperatives movement. The
establishment of a Seed Multiplication Unit
would ensure seed supplies to farmers and
agricultural research services would also
be expanded;
(d) improving crop marketing through the con-
struction and improvement of cooperatively
owned produce markets and the development
of a limited number of crop extraction
roads;
(e) aiding the introduction of improved agricul-
tural practices to illiterate farmers through
a pilot functional numeracy program;



- vii -
(f) ensuring coordination of project implementa-
tion by providing a Projects coordinator and
supporting staff; and
(g) providing funds for the preparation of a sec-
ond phase agricultural project; for a feasi-
bility study of developing a potential rice
growing area, the Jakhaly Swamp; and for a
study in methods of improving groundnut
marketing. The result of this last study
would be reviewed by Government and those
of its recommendation as are acceptable to
the Government and the Association would be
promptly implemented.
22.       The basic concepts of the project, as well as the technology pack-
ages offered, are similar to those of other projects in West Africa, for
example in Senegal where the farming conditions and the people are similar.
In these projects innovations have been well received by the project bene-
ficiaries and the value of the packages proven. A special feature of the
project would be its functional numeracy program. In the absence of a more
comprehensive functional literacy program, this project component, directly
related to agricultural production, represents the most practical and
promising avenue for raising the aptitude of a largely illiterate farming
community whose majority cannot count, weigh or measure (see para. 3.34
to 3.39 of Staff Project Report).
Project Costs and Financial Arrangements
23.       Total project costs, excluding duties and taxes are estimated at
US$11.7 million, of which foreign expenditures are US$6.9 million or 60
percent. Physical and price contingencies account for $1.7 million or 17
percent of total base cost. The proposed IDA credit would be complemented
by parallel financing from a British Government grant and from a BADEA loan.
Farmers who would be beneficiaries of the project would alsc, contribute in the
form of down payment for oxen and equipment. The financing plan is shown in
the following table.
US$ Million
Total Cost                     %
IDA               4.1                         35
ODM               4.1                         35
BADEA             3.3                         28
Farmers            .2                          2
Total        11.7                       100



- viii -
24.       Of the IDA credit, US$1.0 million would be passed on to MANR;
US$0.4 million to PWD for equipment purchases; US$2.2 million would go
to primary cooperative societies through the rediscount facilities of the
Central Bank and The Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU); and US$0.5 million
would be unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
25.       US$2.3 million of farm inputs, equipment and vehicles would be
procured through international competitive bidding, in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Contracts worth less than US$50,000 would be let on the basis of
local competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. Work oxen estimated to cost US$0.6 million would
be purchased by MANR through the agency of either licensed cattle buyers or
LMB. Procurement of items financed by the British Government grant (mostly
building construction and other civil works) and the BADEA loan (vehicles,
equipment, and operating expenses) would be carried out under their regulations.
26.       Disbursements under the IDA credit would be for:  100 percent of
foreign expenditures for vehicles, plant, farm inputs and equipment, (if
purchased locally, disbursements would cover 90 percent of the invoice amount);
100 percent of the costs of consulting services and training fellowships; and
90 percent of the cost of work oxen; 100 percent of the cost of staff salaries
and operating expenses of the Project Coordinators office.
Implementation
27.       Agricultural Credit Arrangements.  US$2.2 million of the IDA credit
would be passed on to GCU at 3 percent through the Central Bank as an agent to
the Government. GCU would establish a revolving credit fund to provide seasonal
and medium-term credit to farmers for the farm inputs and equipment [Section
3.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement]. GCU would relend at 6 per-
cent to primary societies. Compound heads would pay 11 percent for both
seasonal and medium-term credit. Seasonal crwiit would be repaid at the next
groundnut marketing period; the medium-term lcans would be repaid in three
equal annual installments. At present no society is eligible for further
credit unless 95 percent of outstanding loans are repaid; this rule will be
maintained.
28.       Organization and Management.  Overall responsibility for project
implementation would lie with the Permanent Secretary of MANR but execution
of project components would be by participating Departments of MANR and con-
cerned parastatal organizations. Participating organizations would be the
Departments of Agriculture, Animal Health and Production, and Cooperation;
GPMB; LMB; and GCU. The capability required to implement the project exists
within the organizational structures of Government and its parastatal bodies
but lack of cooperation and coordination has hindered efficient operations in
the past. The project would therefore strengthen these existing structures by
providing staff, training and facilities and by improving administrative and
financial procedures. To enable these improvements to be carried out smoothly
over a period of time, there would be no field development in the first year
puScHfise oF eqUtpmentw°ax&dstafjecr° tomeui?nsR6uFJiyniRf required infIastructure,



- ix -
29.       The Permanent Secretary of MANR would delegate day-to-day management
authority to Project Coordinator.  Broad policy guidelines and goals would
be formulated by a Project Coordinating Committee to be established under
the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of MANR and including senior
representatives of GPMB, GCU, the Ministries of Finance and Economic Planning
and Industrial Development, and heads of participating Departrments of M4A'NR.
The Project Coordinator would act as Secretary to this CommitteE and ensure
that its decisions are carried out. During the first two years of project
implementation and with the assistance of a Project Officer, he would function
as project manager. He would be responsible inter alia for preparing finanrcial
estimates and annual work programs in cooperation with heads of participat-ng
departments and agencies and reporting progress in project implementation to
the Coordinating Committee through the Permanent Secretary of 14ANR. In
the remaining two years of project implementation, the Project Coordinator
would relinquish some of his day-to-day responsibilities for project implemen-
tation to the Project Officer and assume a broader role in the coordination of
all agricultural development projects.
30.       The project would create a regional headquarters for MANK to house
a Regional Agricultural Officer at Mansa Konko, a town served by roads
leading to all parts of the project area. The Regional Agricultural Officer,
as the field representative of MANR, would supervise and coordinate the
project activities of all departments. This would fill the g;ap that exists
between the MANR headquarters staff located in or near Banjul and representa-
tives at the administrative division level.
31.       Ia o r cn  Yields and Production.  It is estimated that
after a five year period of project participation the average project farmer
would have increased his yields as follows:
Present Yields
in the Project
Crops                                       Area          After Five Years
--------------(kg/ha)-------------
Groundnut oilseed (in shell)                       900               1,500
Groundnut confectionary (in shell)                800                1,400
Rice upland (paddy)                               800                1,300
Rice swamp (paddy)                               1,000               1,400
Sorghum (threshed grain)                          500                1,000
Through such yield increases, the project would generate at maturity (1983)
annual incremental production of 10,000 tons of groundnuts, 400 tons of con-
fectionary groundnuts, 5,000 tons of rice and 1,000 tons of sorghum. For
livestock, improvements in the calving and reductions in overall mortality
rates would generate, after seven years of project activity, an annual incre-
ment of beef production of about 10,000 tons on a liveweight basis.



x 
32.       Economic Analysis.  The project's direct economic benefits would
be an increase in the production of groundnuts, rice, sorghum and meat. At
full development the annual economic value in 1975 terms of incremental
project production is estimated! at US$5.1 million. Of this, US$1.5 million
would be derived from groundnuts, about US$1.5 million from farm rice and
sorghum, and US$2.1 million from meat. The net contribution of the project
to foreign exchange earnings, through export expansion and import substitu-
tion (rice) would be US$2.0 million per year at full production.
33.       The weighted average economic rate of return for the project as
whole is 23 percent. The livestock component which costs US$1.6 million (15
percent of project cost before price contingencies) has an estimated rate of
return of 45 percent. The crop production component costing US$8.8 million
(85 percent of project cost before price contigencies) has an estimated
economic rate of return of 17 percent. The project's overall rate of return
has been tested to determine the impact of changes in costs and benefits as
well as that of potential droughts. These tests show that the project could
withstand circumstances more adverse than may be reasonably expected and yet
remain economically justified. Project costs could increase by 20 percent,
for example, and still a satisfactory rate of return of 16 percent would be
achieved.
34.       Risks.  The risk is moderate.  Improvements in crop husbandry
techniques have been successfully tested elsewhere in West Africa. More-
over, the rate of return has been calculated on the assumption that only
60 percent of the farmers in the project area would participate in the
project. Undoubtedly the project would impose a major problem of absorp-
tion on MANR, for it involves logistical management problems of a size and
type not encountered so far.  Wlile technical assistance will be provided,
it will be essential for MANR to identify early any incipient weaknesses
in either project staffing or personnel. The livestock component of the
project is the most difficult to evaluate. While proposed project actions
are clearly sound and can be costed with reasonable accuracy, estimates of
benefits are subject to a wide margin of errnr in the absence of detailed
data. Fortunately, the benefits of this component could fall to only 45
percent of the present forecast and still generate a rate of return in ex-
cess of 10 percent. No environmental risks are expected to result from
project implementation; the only toxic materials involved would be very
small quantities of seed dressings which would be employed under con-
trolled conditions. Indeed, the erosion control measures of the proj-
ect should produce some environmental improvements.
35.       Farmers' Benefits.  The crop production component of the project
is intended to help some of the poorest farmers in The Gambia whose present
per capita income is only about US$65. Per capita incomes would on the aver-
age increase in real terms by 200 percent (to US$137 compared with the national
average of US$263). Earnings per man day would increase by 250 percent, from
US$0.42 to US$1.05. In addition to raising compound members' income to the



- xi -
national rural average, the project would stimulate an increase in per capita
cereal production from an annual average of 200 kg. to aboul: 300 kg., thus
ameliorating nutrition.
36.       Financial Impact of the Project on Government and Public Agencies:
External sources would provide virtually all the funds needed in the develop-
ment period (through 1979). Expenditures by Government and public agencies
participating in the project would be limited to fertilizer subsidies and the
cost of supporting producer prices for groundnuts, in line with Government
policy. Thereafter, expenditures by public bodies would be required to meet
the costs of continuing project activities at the same level and or replacing
equipment acquired during the development period. The project is also expected
to give rise to public revenues in the form of trading profiLts for GPMB,
export taxes on groundnuts and indirect taxes on expenditures by project
farmers out of their increased incomes. In addition, of course, Government
would have to meet the debt service on the IDA credit and the BADEA loan.
37.       The project's cash flow indicates that if groundnut prices remain
at the low levels predicted producer price supports would require a draw-
down of GPMB reserves of some D2.9 million (U.S. $1.5 million) over the
period 1978-1982, with a peak of D1.1 million (US$0.6 million) in 1980.
Fertilizer subsidies would cost a further DO.4 million (US$0).2 million).
On a nationwide basis, Government's price support and fertilizer subsidy
policies would require a net drawdown of D17-20 million (US$9-10 million)
in GPMB's reserves by 1982. These reserves now amount to about D66 million
and could easily support this burden in the event that the world market
price remained depressed throughout this period. Taking the ten-year
period 1976-1985, the project shows a cumulative cash flow of some D4.6
million (US$2.4 million) before debt service and D1.7 million (US$0.9
million) after debt service. Thus its implementation would not create
an insupportable burden on the resources of the Government and partici-
pating public agencies. However, in view of the continuing uncertainty of the
world price for commodities input and output prices must be kept under constant
review. The Government would discuss each year with the Association price
policies for paddy, rice, groundnuts and fertilizer.
Conclusion, Recommendations and Loan Conditions
38.       The proposed project is economically and technically sound and
seeks to improve the standards of living of large numbers of rural people
who are poor by any standards. The risk that the project will fail to
achieve its objectives is moderate and depends principally on the Govern-
ment's ability to manage the various components of the project. To strengthen
government's planning and coordination ability the project would provide a
project coordinator and his staff within MANR and would upgrade and expand its
field organization and facilities.






THE GAMBIA
STAFF REPORT ON A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. GENERAL BACKGROUND, THE RURAL SECTOR, AND GOVERNMIENT
INTERVENTIONS IN TIIE RURAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01       In furtherance of its stated policy for agricultural develop-
ment, the Government of The Gambia asked the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
(CP) to identify and prepare an agricultural development project for possible
external financing. A CP preparation report 33/75-GAM. 3 was issued on August
6, 1975 and was the basis of Government's request to IDA for financial assist-
ance. During appraisal a number of changes were made which took account of
Government's restricted financial resources, a more conservative assessment of
the ability of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) to
implement projects, and a recent agreement between the RepulDlic of China and
The Gambia under which future irrigated rice development wiLl be carried out
with Chinese financial and technical assistance.
1.02       This staff report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/British
Government mission in October/November 1975, comprising Messrs. C. P. R.
Nottidge, 0. Honisch, A. Osei (IDA) and J. H. N. Pitman (British Overseas
Development Ministry). Mr. B. Braithwaite (Consultant) appraised the
adult functional numeracy component. Much of the basic data employed in
project preparation and appraisal was generated by a United Kingdom fi-
nanced comprehensive study of the land resources of The Gambia.
B. General Economic Background
1.03       The Gambia is a small but densely populated country with
500,000 inhabitants occupying a narrow strip alopg both sides of The
Gambia River and forming an enclave of 10,400 km inside Senegal.
Population growth rate is estimated at about 2.5% for the country as
a whole and, due to the urban drift, at 5% in the capital area. Ninety
percent of the population is illiterate. Economic growth is slow in
real terms, about 2.6% p.a., i.e. about equal to the population growth
rate. In 1974, following a jump in groundnut prices, per capita GDP
in current dollars and exchange rates was estimated to be US$200, but
income per capita of the 98,000 urban population, estimated at US$470,
is 3.5 times higher than the average per capita income of the 400,000
rural population, estimated at US$130.
1.04       The economy consists mostly of traditional small-holding
rural activities. Agriculture, livestock and fisheries account for
65% of national GDP and employ about 85% of the active population.



- 2 -
67% of national GDP and emp]Loy about 85% of the active population.
Agriculture is mostly rainfed, and is characterized by a short produc-
tion period limited to the six months of the rainy season. It is
dominated by groundnut production. Groundnuts are almost the only
cash crop of The Gambia, its main source of foreign exchange, and
constitute the basis for the! country's major industrial activity,
groundnut oil milling.
1.05       The Gambia's small size and geographic location, and
its heavy dependence on one crop for production, foreign exchange and
employment have a number of economic consequences which distinguish it
from other developing nations. These are that:
a. there are sharp seasonal swings associated with the annual
groundnut crop cycle which r'esult in full employment and
even labor shortages during three months of the year and
underemployment at other times;
b. there are wide fluctuations in international groundnut prices
which require the adoption of mutually consistent policies to
protect the incomes of producers and provide adequate levels
of foreign exchange reserves to meet unpredictable price
declines;
c. the scope for independent domestic price and balance of
payments policy (the dalasi is linked to the British pound)
is restricted. The Gambia's long border and enclave sit-
uation invite the movement of goods and people, largely
unrecorded, to and from Senegal in response to economic
incentives. Migrant laborers (the so-called "strange
farmers") cross the border in response to conditions in
the labor market; while variations in price levels in the
two countries generate clandestine trade in domestically
produced crops, especially groundnuts, as well as imported
consumer goods for reexport. The proceeds from this trade
accrue mainly to private traders, although there is some
spillover to the rural population as a whole;
d. the size of the domestic market combined with the amplitude of
seasonal and world market fluctuations limits returns to private
investment in domestic enterprises and raises the risks to
investors; and
e. typically, productivity is low in the rural sector, while there
is a pervasive lack of managerial and technical skills through-
out all sectors of the economy.
1.06       Given the structural difficulties noted above, the country's
historical economic performance has been commendable although real
growth has been slow. Private entrepreneurship has contributed little
to investment except in tourism where official promotional policies have



succeeded in launching a nascent industry. There has also been a marked rise
in fisheries. Visible inflation has proceeded at a relatively moderate
pace (it was estimated at 9% in 1974); the dalasi has remained firm; and the
Government has usually managed to maintain adequate levels of foreign exchange
reserves.
1.07       The resources available to the Gambia economy are very limited.
During 1970-73, GDP in current prices averaged about US$50 million per year;
exports and imports were around US$20 million and US$25 million respectively;
and current government revenues were in the range of US$10-11 million per
year.
1.08       During the past two years, 1974-75, the Gambia has received
a windfall in the form of record increases in groundnut prices and output.
As a consequence GDP in current prices jumped to about US$100 million in
1974 and is expected to have reached about US$110 million in 1975.
Farmers revenues were nearly doubled in 1974; public sector savings
(including a US$15 million surplus for The Gambia Produce Marketing
Board) reached a record high of some US$20 million; the current account
of the balance of payment swung from a deficit of about US$9 million to
a surplus of more than US$5 million; and foreign exchange reserves reached
some US$35 million (equivalent to over 10 months of imports) by the end
of the year. Although not as dramatic as 1974, 1975 is also expected to
show good results owing to sales of the groundnut crop at or near the high
prices prevailing at the beginning of the year. A rise in import prices
will, however, absorb most of the increased foreign exchange receipts from
exports, and the surplus in the current account of the balance of payments
is expected to be negligible. Together with an expected moderate decline
in exports, this would lead to the reappearance of current account de-
ficits, a rising domestic price level, and pressures to utilize Gambia
Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) reserves to maintain farmer incomes.
C. The Rural Sector
Natural Resources
1.09       The project area comprises about 50% of The Gambia; consequently,
Chapter II which contains a detailed description of the natural and human
resources of the project area as well as of its farming systems provides a
more complete picture of the rural sector. The brief description that
follows is to provide a background for the discussion of sector policies
in this Chapter. The Gambia has a Sahelo-Sudanian climate, with a single
peak wet season lasting from June to October. It is classified officially
as one of the seven "Sahelian countries". Rainfall averages 1,200 mm per
annum in the south and about 900 mm in the north. Droughts occur about
one year in five and provisional results of work by FAO on crop fluctua-
tions for the Sahel Zone show that in the Sahelian countries an overall
crop shortfall of 20-30% can be expected to occur once in every 20 years.



- 4 -
Such a shortfall would be about in line with the worst year in The Gambia of
the recent Sahelian drought, 1973. Recent studies class nearly 50% of soils
as unsuitable or marginal for agriculture, about 40% as being suitable, and
the rest as suitable but needing improvements, mainly drainage. The Western
and Northern Bank Divisions (which form the greater part of the Project Area)
have the highest proportion of' good agricultural soils while the best irri-
gable areas are found mostly in MacCarthy Island and Upper River Divisions
(see Map). Of soils classified as suitable for agriculture, less than 20% are
actually cultivated and about 45% are under fallow. The average fallow period
is about three years. The Gambia River is the dominant natural landmark and
potentially the most important natural resource for agricultural development.
However, the river is tidal throughout its length in the country and the
reduced flow of fresh water during the dry season permits the intrusion of
salt water as far as 240 km upstream. *Without regulation of the river flow
or other means of controlling salt water intrusion, large areas of potentially
irrigable and productive land can never be fully exploited. Means of river
regulation are under study, bttt even under the most favorable circumstances it
will be many years before any major irrigation schemes are in production.
The Structure of Agriculture Production
1.10       Crop Production - The basic farming unit in The Gambia is the
compound - a group of blood relatives living in a single enclosed group of
dwellings under the leadership of the oldest male member. A number of com-
pounds comprise the village. Within a compound there are usually sub-groups
(dabadas) corresponding to nuclear families, which in Muslim Gambia may
include several wives. The average size of a compound is about 22 members but
varies from the typical Serahuli compound of the eastern plains with over 40
members to the typical pastoralist Fula compound of 10 to 11 members. Land
tenure in rural Gambia has evolved under the influences of history and religion,
and has now been legalized by act of Parliament. Land is held in trust by the
District Council and the district chief is the arbiter between village headmen,
each of whom allocates land generally recognized as belonging to his village.
Land is allocated to compound heads at the beginning of each farming season
and compounds enjoy user rights only. Compounds may not sell or mortgage
the land; indeed tradition requires that land be returned to the village
headmen at the end of each harvest although it is usually reallocated to
the same compound. Compound heads can and do "lend" land to "strange" far-
mers, sometimes to the same person for several seasons. On death of a
compound head his successor "inherits" the rights to all the land of the
compound and consequently there have been no serious problems of land frag-
mentation. With rice, however, which is cultivated in riverine swamp areas
and has traditionally been a woman's crop, adolescent daughters help their
mothers cultivate the land and on marriage take the right to cultivate a
share of this land with them. In this way, rice land may move from compound
to compound.



-5-
1.11      Recent studies of farm sizes and crop areas suggest that the area
cultivated per adult unit does not vary significantly from one part of the
country to the other.  An exception is the case of rice farms where, with
the advent of rice production under controlled irrigation, some individuals
have consolidated their rights into single blocks of between 20 and 40 ha.
within which individual land rights, usually about one acre per participant,
have been reallocated. Details of farm size and cropping patterns for
traditional farmers in the three broadly distinct areas of t:he country are
given in Table 1.
1.12      Data of yields of various crops have been collected, albeit un-
systematically, for a number of years and are summarized in Table 2. These
suggest that, over the years, there have been sizeable increases in produc-
tivity. The reasons for this are difficult to determine but: the most likely
cause is increased labor input per unit area. Studies showing that popula-
tion growth has been larger than growth in cultivated area lend credence
to this view.
1.13      National production data are non-existent for the years before
1.973/74 when the first sample survey was conducted. Estimates for the prin-
cipal crops based on the surveys for 1973/74 and 1974/75 aret groundnuts
113,000/147,000 tons; rice 17,500/23,400 tons; millet and sorghum 22,000/
32,000 tons. The 1973/74 production figures, that are shown. first, reflect
the impact of the last year (calendar 1973) of the great Sahelian drought.
Further details on production appear in Table 1.01. The figures show that
there is a considerable imbalance between cash and food crop production; for
example, groundnut production is about 425 kg per head of rural population
compared to less than 200 kg for all cereals grown. Although both yield and
production data are not totally reliable there is other evidence supporting
the view that food production has lagged behind. These are rice that imports
average some 20,000 tons annually (40 kg per head equivalent) and subsistence
credit amounting to D 4.0 million yearly has been provided to farmers in
recent times. A large proportion of such subsistence credit is employed to
purchase foodstuffs and is repaid from the sales proceeds of cash crops.
1.14      Cultivation methods have remained largely unchanged over the
years with the hand hoe predominating as the basic tool. Despite a con-
siderable cattle population, it is only since the 1950s that ox-drawn
equipment has been used and even now this is only on a very limited
scale. After considerable extension effort, only some 6,000 pairs of
oxen are currently estimated to be at work throughout the country.
Reasons for this are given as a skewed distribution of cattle ownership
(only 10-15% of farmers own cattle) and the absence of credit for the
purchase of oxen.
1.15      Labor for crop production is provided by the compound.  Com-
pounds generally have considerable under-employed labor for much of the
year, but seasonal strains occur in the period from Mid-May to the end
of July when employment of some outside labor may become necessary to



Table 1
Crcopping Patterns
West      Center       East
Total Area/i (ha)                     9.60        9.20        16.60
of which:
Groundnuts                            4.65        5.10        11.27
Swamp Rice                            2.61        2.16          -
Upland Rice                           0.94        0.16          -
Millet                                 0.66       0.20          2.42
Sorghum                               0.18        1.21         1.80
Others                                0.15        0.43          1.80
Average No. of Adult Units/2          13.65      14.85        21.08
Area per Adult  (ha)                   0.69       0.62         0.78
/1  Average areas. Individual crop areas do not add up to total
because of mixed cropping.
/2  The coefficients used in clculating adult labor units are:
age 0-6 - 0; 7-14 yrs. 0.35; 15-49 yrs. - 1.0 (male), and 0.8
(female); over 50 yrs. - 0.6.
Source: U.K. Ministry of Overseas Development; Land Resources of
The Gambia: Vol. 3.
Table 2
Recorded A.verage Sample Yields
kg/ha
1952       1963         1973/74
Groundnuts (in-shell)                  493         889           1,353/1
Swamp Rice (paddy)                     884         894          1,100
Upland Rice (paddy)                     303        n/a             650
Millet (threshed grain)                 228         313            505
Sorghum (threshed grain)                158        n/a             476
/1   This figure is misleading as it incorporates a yield of over
2,000 kg/ha for nearly half of the total groundnut hectarage.
These alleged high yields occur along the Senegal border and
clearly include production originating in Senegal. The yield
figure is obtained by dividing groundnuts purchased by GMB by
estimated hectarage.
Source: U.K. Ministry of Overseas Development: op. cit.



- 7 -
cope with the start up of the farming year. The labor situation is further
complicated in that certain crops are the responsibility of either male
or female members of the compound. Labor constraints have been shown as
the principal limiting factor to the greater expansion of double cropped
irrigation rice despite the high potential returns from such activities,
see para. 1.35.
1.16       Farmers are aware of the value of fertilizers but only about 4,000
tons of chemical fertilizers are used of which about half is employed on
irrigated rice. Household waste and sheep and goat manure are used on rice
fields and cattle are tethered on the sorghum and millet fields during the dry
season. Farmers often pay cattle owners for this service. Seeds of improved
and high yielding crop varieties have generally not been available to farmers.
1.17       Livestock Production - Cattle numbers were estimated at 280,000
head in 1974 and the current annual growth rate at 3%. With an off-take
of about 10%, livestock contribute less than 5% to GDP. Cattle are kept
around the villages, moving only short distances into the drier uplands
during the rainy season and into the flood plains and swamps during the
dry season. Herds, usually numbering between 50 and 150 cattle,,contain
animals owned by several individuals. The reason for these -jointly owned
herds is that it is difficult to obtain the services of a herdsman for
less than 30-40 animals since the greater part of his remuneration is
the milk he can obtain from the animals. Animals are tethered at night,
either around the village or on harvested millet and sorghum fields.
Sheep, goats and poultry are kept by almost all families and roam freely
around village areas.
1.18       The cattle population consists mainly of the indigenous N'Dama
breed and of crossbreds between the N'Dama and Zebu Gokra ancl West African
Shorthorn. Calving percentage is low, about 40%, and the mortality rate
between birth and 12 months of age is high at about 20%. Sheep are of the
West African dwarf breed and goats mostly the Guinea type, with off-take
rates of about 30% and mortality rates of 15 to 20%.
1.19       In the past, the most important disease was rinderpest, but it
is now well controlled through annual vaccination campaigns cf young
animals. Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, hemorrhagic septicaemia,
blackquarter and anthrax remain prevalent, however, and vaccinations are
undertaken only when outbreaks are identified and reported to the authori-
ties. Trypanosomiasis has largely dictated the dominance of the N'Dama
breed which is relatively tolerant to the disease. Internal and external
parasites are common amongst all classes of stock; while the deleterious
effect of these pests has not been fully assessed in detail it is sub-
stantial.
1.20       As in all the Sahelian countries natural fodder is abundant
from July to October, but its nutrition value deteriorates rapidly by
November when stock rely on crop residues and the grazing offered in flood
plain and swamp areas.



- 8 -
1.21       Firm information ona production is lacking but national annual
beef production is currently estimated at about 3,000 tons cold dressed
weight (based on a liveweight of 230 kg and a killing-out percentage of
46%). Mutton production is oif the order of 900 tons (10 kg carcass weight)
and poultry 300 tons annually. An average cow lactation is about 350
liters with some 150 liters being consumed mainly by herdsmen and their
families.
Agricultural Institutions
1.22       The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) - MANR
provides agricultural and livestock services to farmers through its Depart-
ments of Agriculture (crop extension, training and research), Animal Health
and Production (veterinlry services and animal husbandry extension), and
Cooperation (support to the Cooperative Movement). Because of limited
manpower and the geographic separation of the headquarters of the depart-
ments, coordination between departments has not been good in the past,
and generally the intensity and quality of services provided to producers
are inadequate.  The natult  and performance of these and other institutions
operating in the rural sec,)r are described in more detail in Chaprer II.
1.23       The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) - The Board 1-lays an
important role in the sector; it buys, processes and exports grob.ldnuts
and palm kernels, and buys locally proauced paddy rice from some partici-
pants in Government-sponsored irrigation schemes. It also imports rices
and some agricultural inputs such as fertilizer and chemicals. Export
sales are through its fully owned London subsidiary, the Gambia Produce
Company of London ,td. For primary marketirig it relies on licensed buying
agents, including c-ooperative societies. (2MB is well-managed and its
financial status is -rod largely because of unusually high world market
prices and very good lhrvests of groundnuts in both 1973/74 and 1974/75.
Its reserves now stand at over D 50 million even after making allowances
for transfers to the P11ce Stabilization Fund which is employed to sub-
sidize domestic sales of rice impnr(. and exDortable-quality groundnut
oil as well as fertilize 3, see p:lra. 1.29.
1.24       The Catti! Marketing Board (CMB), how inactive,  was created in
1972/73 as an instrument for bringing order to cattle marketing.  CMB pur-
chased live animals up country ai1d transported Lhem to Banjul for resale to
butchers. Weak management and poor buying procedures resulted in sizeable
losses by June/July 1975 wheln C.MB virtually ceased operations. Govern-
ment plans to reconstitute the Board by recruiting to be renamed the Livestock
Marketing Board (LMB) better mana&erve:t and field supervision personnel and
has secured bilateral assistance for taiis purpose.
1.25       The Cooperative Movement - Farmers cooperatives are of great
importance in The Gambia. Currently, they purchase, on behalf of GPMB,
about 45% of marketed groundnuts and act as a chan.e,'l for credit to farmers.
The Gambia Cooperative Union is the apex organizaticli for the country's 64
primary societies. It provides centralized accounting, purchasing and admin-
istrative services, and advances subsistence loans to primuary societies.



Up to now there has been very little production credit avaiLable to farmers.
Administrative inefficiency and allegations of corruption have led to two
commissions of enquiry in recent years. Recently British Technical Assistance
provided a new General Manager and Chief Accountant.
D. Government Intervention in the Rural Sector
1.26       Government intervenes in the sector in four broad categories
of actions. First, the provision of nation-wide farmer and livestock
producer support services. As described earlier in this Chapter, and
in more detail in Chapter II, the impact of these regular services on
production and farm incomes is not large, basically because these services
lack either well planned meaningful programs or the means to execute such
programs. The second category of intervention concerns the marketing of
major crops and the fixing of controlled prices at producer and retail
levels for a range of agricultural commodities. The third is the imple-
mentation of externally financed, and relatively area-intensive and small
agricultural development projects. So far, three such projects have been
implemented. The fourth category is the subsidization of the retail price
of fertilizers.
Marketing and Prices
1.27       Government intervention in marketing and price setting covers,
in addition to groundnuts, palm kernels and cotton, for which GPMB has a
monopoly of purchase and export; paddy rice, of which only small quantities
are purchased; and milled rice which is imported exclusively by GPMB.
Palm kernels are collected in natural groves and this requires little effort
and no expense. In 1974/75, the producer price was D 236 per ton decorticated
and 1,600 tons were exported; neither producer price nor expcort quantity
has changed in recent years. Cotton was introduced in 1972 in furtherance of
Government's aims to reduce the dependence of the economy on groundnuts. Only
some 270 tons were purchased in 1974/75. The current (1975/76) producer price
for seed cotton is D 397 per ton and is far below the equivalent price paid to
farmers in Senegal which is D 525 per ton. Furthermore, a recent study
indicated that farmers turning over only 1/3 of their groundnut area to cotton
could expect their gross returns per man-day to drop from D 2.50 to D 1.90.
Thus, although the 1975/76 producer price is some 12% higher than in the
previous year, it is not likely that this crop would begin to make a substan-
tial contribution to Government's diversification objective until the world
market price for cotton lint and seed rebound from their present low levels.
1.28       For rice, GPMB imports about 20,000 tons anually diich until
now were sold at a subsidy to consumers. GPMB also purchases a small
quantity (about 200 tons) of paddy rice principally from participants in



- 10 -
development projects. The official and economic prices for paddy and
milled rice for 1974/75 are in Table 3:
Table 3
Official Price    Economic Price
 ----------    (D/M.T.)  ----------
Producer Price:  Paddy                   309               372
Retail Price:  Milled Rice               590               684
The price schedule announced for 1975/76 removes the subsidy on rice purchased
by urban consumers and at the same time increases the producer price for paddy
rice by 14% to D 352 per ton, much closer to the economic price.
1.29       Groundnut marketing by GPMB is much better organized than cotton or
paddy rice purchasing. The producer price is set to be rather more attractive
than in Senegal. In recent years, GPMB has also retained a margin which goes
into a Price Stabilization FurLd to support the sub-
sidies on rice and on fertilizers (para. 1.37) as well as producer prices
if needed. The relation between the producer and export selling prices
in recent years is in Table 4 below:
Table 4
Groundnut Prices
(D/Ton ; Unshelled Basis)
1965/66 66/67 67/68 68/69 69/70 70/71 71/72 72/73 73/74 74/75
1. Producer
Price       140    140   135   140   150   170   180   200   230.4 310.4
2. FOB Value  320.1  307   271.7 372.2 380   478.5 445.6 490.8 828.9 852.2
3. Ratio of
1:2        43.7   45.6  49.7  37.6  39.5  35.6  40.4  40.8  27.8  36.4
It shows that the effective taxation rate on farmers has been about 50%
in nine out of ten years. GPMB's accumulated reserves now stand in ex-
cess of D 60 million and would be more than adequate to meet expected
fertilizer subsidies (para. 1.37) as well as to support producer prices
if necessary (para. 8.08).
1.30       Cattle marketing has been shared between private dealers and CMB.
CMB have handled more than half of the total volume in recent years. Dealers
appraise by eye whereas CMB agents have bought according to weight. Registra-
tion by CMB of all dealers commenced in March 1975, and in future dealers will
require licenses to operate. Hides and skins are purchased and sold by an
autonomous public company - Gambia Hides Export Company Ltd. In 1974, 14,800
hides and 19,500 skins were purchased at a value to producers of 1) 80,000.



- 11 -
1.31       The official retail price of beef was D 1.65/kg Ln early 1976
but actual retail prices at that time had been permitted to drift up to D
2.80/kg, roughly in line with the price on Senegal's free market. It is
hoped that when CMB recommences operations as to Livestock Marketing Board
(LMB) it will seek to retain these recent higher retail prices and thus permit
better returns to producers.
1.32       Given the Gambia's unusual physical location and small size, the
current level of Government intervention in the marketing of' farm produce
appears appropriate. Government's pricing policies also appear sound and
currently are correctly designed to reduce the level of subsidization of
urban dwellers by rural people.
Agricultural Development Projects
1.33       In the recent past there have been four major agricultural develop-
ment efforts initiated by Government with external assistance. Three programs
have concerned irrigated rice development through small pumping schemes along
the Gambia River. The first of these schemes, under which about 2,000 acres
were developed satisfactorily, started in 1966 and was implemented with tech-
nical and financial assistance from Taiwan.  The second was financed by IDA in
1972 and was designed to develop 3,000 acres of double cropped irrigated rice.
In 1975 these efforts were followed up by an agreement between The Gambia and
The Republic of China under which the latter has undertaken to provide
financial and technical assistance for future irrigated rice development.
The remaining major development has been an African Development Bank financed
project designed to introduce cotton growing. This project started in 1974
and is making relatively slow progress due to an unfavorable price differen-
tial in favor of groundnuts (para 1.27).
1.34       IDA credit 333-GAM was signed in September 1972 and provided US$1.3
million to help develop 3,000 acres of pump irrigated rice in perimeters of
20 acres and more as well as to finance rice research and other studies. At
appraisal it was estimated that land would be developed at a rate of about
1,000 acres a year, i.e. that development would be completed by the end of
1975. It was estimated that annual production would amount to 7,000 lbs of
paddy/acre from two crops, and that a cropping efficiency of 2.0 would be
achieved by the second year of development of each irrigated plot. Progress
in area and production development has been slower than anticipated.   Only
2,000 acres had been developed by end 1975 against the planned 3,000 acres
and the cropping intensity for the 2,000 acres is only 1.2. Yields have been
as planned and in fact have exceeded the average of 3,500 lbS/acre/crop as-
sumed at appraisal.
1.35       The reason for the slower than expected pace of development and
the lower than anticipated cropping intensity has been ident:ified clearly as a
labor constraint. It was expected, at appraisal, that a dry--season crop would



- 12 -
be sown in January and harvested in May and that this would be followed by a
wet- season crop sown in July and harvested in November. The May harvest of
the dry-season crop coincides with the beginning of the upland farming year,
the period of maximum farm activity. Experience has shown that few farm
families can cope with this situation and that most prefer to concentrate on
their upland crops, especially groundnuts, at this time rather than to work on
their relatively small (average:one acre) dry season rice plot. Consequently
the extent of double-cropping, has been much less than anticipated despite the
high returns from irrigated rice growing ( a gross income of up to D 600/acre
from a single crop) achievable by the average grower. In the case of the
extent of the area developed, it would appear that the number of families with
sufficient labor for irrigated rice development is smaller than estimated at
appraisal. Since the project was appraised much better information has been
obtained on the numbers and ability of compounds and families to undertake
rice cultivation through the British financed and executed survey entitled
"Land Resources of The Gambia".
1.36       A probable solution to the problem of cropping intensity is to use
a cold resistant rice variety that would permit planting the dry season rice
crop in December, rather than in January, and its harvest in April. Work has
started on screening varieties for their suitability under the IDA financed
project and wil be continued. It is estimated that when a suitable variety
is selected (there is little doubt that one will be selected) and the use of
power tillers on irrigated rice farms increases (the Chinese program is
providing these) a cropping iLntensity of 1.75 will be achieved. These devel-
opments should also permit a gradual extension in the acreage of irrigated
rice. Under the project equipment has been procured adequate to equip a
further 800 acres for irrigation. Because of higher than forecast world
prices for rice, investments in the project have been justified. It is
calculated that even should acreage remain at 2,000 and cropping intensity at
1.2 an internal rate of return in line with the 30% estimated at appraisal
would be obtained.
Subsidies on Farm Inputs
1.37       The principal and effectively the only subsidy on inputs is on
fertilizers, and is met from the Price Stabilization Fund. In 1975 about
4,600 tons of fertilizers (about half for rice and half for groundnuts) were
sold, involving a subsidy of about D 1.5 million (US$0.8 million). Farmers
pay about 25% of farm gate cost. This subsidy is paid out of GPMB reserves
which derive from an effective tax on groundnut farmers. Its immediate
removal is likely to dampen demand which would be undesirable. Government
policy now is to raise fertilizer prices to farmers only to the extent of the
general rate of inflation. With the anticipated fall in world fertilizer
prices (para. 7.06), the subsidy would be partly eroded as is illustrated in
Table 5:



- 13 -
Table 5
Groundnut Fertilizer Cost and Subsidy
(D/M.T.)
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980
Cost at Farmgate 1/      265       265       260       260      265
Producer Price 2/         111      126       139       147      156
Subsidy                  154       139       121       113      109
In view of the continuing uncertainties about the world price for ground-
nuts, upon which GPMB reserves depend, it is necessary that input and
output prices are kept under constant review.  Such an arrangement is
a condition of IDA financing of the project described in this report.  In
the analysis of the financial returns to farmers, the fertilizer subsidies
are assumed to be gradually removed.
E. Government's Strategy and Policies for the Rural Sector
1.38       Government objectives for the sector are set out in The Gambia's
First Development Plan, 1976-80.  The objectives are pragmatic, relatively
simple, of clearly correct priority and fully supportable.  They are as
follows:
-     to increase rural incomes and through this the quality of life
in rural areas, especially nutrition;
-     to eliminate rice imports; and
to diversify production.
A primary element in Governments strategy is retraining and better equipment
for the field services. Their activities would concentrate on the provision
of proven input packages in regions with the greatest productive potential;
for rice production, there would be a special effort to increase cropping
intensity on presently irrigated areas and to rehabilitate deteriorated irri-
gation works. To facilitate readier acceptance of these improved technologies,
such packages would be offered on credit whenever necessary. The cooperative
movement would be strengthened so that it can have a greater role in the dis-
tribution and recuperation of credit.  To support these activities, Govern-
ment also proposes to improve rural infrastucture especially feeder roads and
marketing and storage facilities. For the livestock sector, the problem of
increased feed is to be tackled by the use of crop residues (rice bran and
groundnut -hay and -shells) which are available locally but largely wasted
under current practices. The development of cultivated fodder offers an in-
teresting prospect for the long term. Access routes to the river and watering
1/    Based on IBRD forecasts, in current terms.
2/    1975 adjusted to reflect expected inlfation rate for imported com-
modities.



- 14 -
points on the banks would be developed and protected by law in order to reduce
friction between agriculturists and herdsmen.
1.39       Through the medium of the project described in this report nearly
half of the rural population would be subject to actions designed to achieve
the first and second objectives. In addition, in the eastern part of the
country many thousands of families are benefiting from the IDA and Chinese
financed rice programs and the African Development Bank financed cotton
program which has the additional objective of diversification. It is Govern-
ment's intention to bring all rural compounds under the influence of develop-
ment programs and it plans that the next major project should complete cover-
age of the whole country with integrated actions such as are provided under
the proposed agricultural development project for the Western sector of The
Gambia.
1.40       In pursuing its objectives Government appears generally to be
employing policies that facilitate the achievement of these objectives
without danger of misallocation of resources. Government intervention
in marketing and prices seems unobjectionable at this time given the swing,
implicit in the official 1975/76 price schedules, away from the subsidiza-
tion of urban people at the cost of producers. Nonetheless, the impact of
relative prices and the interactions in the sector that result from price
changes must be kept under careful review as must be the efficiency of
Government agencies involved in marketing and price fixing. Both GPMB and
CMB have had problems in the past: GPMB intervention in paddy purchasing
has been inefficient and CMB's financial weaknesses have been compounded by
managerial deficiencies.
1.41       In sum, existing strategy and policies of the Government of The
Gambia should favor implementation of the project just described in this
report.



- 15 -
CHAPTER II. THE PROJECT AREA AND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Project Area
2.01       Location.  For purposes of increased agricultural production and
improved animal husbandry, the project area, covering both sides of the Gambia
River, would comprise the three Western Administrative Divisions of Western
(WD), Lower River (LRD) and North Bank (NBD) Divisions. Improvements to
existing veterinary services and development of cattle marketing would be
undertaken on a country-wide basis. For details see Map.
2.02       Administative and Rural Structure.  Each Division is administered
by a Divisional Commissioner, appointed by the Ministry of Local Government,
who acts both as government's senior representative and as magistrate. The
three divisions are sub-divided into 12 districts each headed by an elected
chief who also performs minor administrative and judicial duties. The village
is made up of compounds, fenced conglomerations of dwellings each accommodat-
ing an extended family group under a compound head. In the project area three
compound farming models have been identified as the result of a study carried
out over a two year period 1/. Model I annually cultivates 13.5 ha and has
almost 17 adult labor equivalents to carry out the cropping program. Model II
has 9.4 ha under crops and 13.7 adult labor units and Model III cultivating
6.8 ha with 9.2 adult labor equivalents 1/. The cropping patterns for the
three models are summarized below:
Table 6
Hectares Cultivated
Model I     Model II      Model III
Groundnuts                 6.5          4.6            3.2
Rice upland                1.7          0.9           0.7
Rice alluvial              3.3           2.6           1.6
Millet early (souno)       0.5           0.4           0.3
Millet late (sanyo)        0.5           0.3           0.2
Sorghum                   0.5           0.2            0.4
Findo (Digitaria)         0.4            0.3           0.3
Maize                      0.1           0.1           0.1
Total                 13.5           9.4           6.2
1/ G.D.N. Lowe; The Land Resources of The Gambia; 1975 which also gives de-
tails on the conversion of compound population into adult labor equiva-
lents.



- 16 -
2.03       Population.  The population, almost wholly rural, of the project
area comprises some 53% of the national total and is about 192,000, with
some 62,000 persons living in WD, 41,000 in LRD and 89,000 in NBD and is
estimated to be increasing annually at about 2.2%.  The average popula-
tion density is 47 persons per km . The adult literacy rate is low,
being about 10%.
2.04       Land Tenure.  Land tenure is governed by customary laws which
allow cultivators full user rights (para. 1.10).
2.05       Income Levels and Nutritional Levels.  No detailed information is
available but present per capita farm incomes, including subsitence, are esti-
mated to be about D 130 (US$ 65) annually. Toward the end of the long dry
period and before the harvesting of early planted crops, most rural families
experience food shortages and as a result of a recent survey it is esti-
mated that, on average, a compound spends 27% of its cash income on food
purchase. Limited off-farm employment opportunities add another D30 to per
capita incomes.
2.06       The climate is characterized by a long dry season and a short
intense wet season with about 90% of rainfall, which averages between
1,200 mm and 900 m, falling in the five months June to October; but there
are significant yearly variations and partial crop failures can be expec-
ted about every 3-4 years. Heaviest falls occur in August through October.
Higher rainfall is recorded in coastal areas, with decreasing amounts in-
land. The Atlantic Ocean moderates temperatures along the coastal strip,
whilst eastwards, daily and seasonal variations are greater. Temper-
atures range between 27 0C (June) and 23 0C (January) at the coast and between
32 C and 24 C inland. Basic data rainfall for three recording stations are
given in Chart 15663.
2.07       Topography.  Topography is generally flat with maximum heights
reaching between 40 and 50 m a.s.l. In the east, the plateau forms exten-
sive surfaces which are dissected by narrow valleys. The edge of the plateau
is frequently marked by a scarp below which colluvium has accumulated and
which merges into alluvial areas. The plateau dips gently to the west and
becomes progressively more dissected. The separation between plateau and
colluvial slopes eventually disappears in the west.
2.08       Soils.  For agriculitural purposes, 40% of all soil types are well
suited to agriculture, 50% deemed unsuitable and some 10% of marginal use.
Soils can generally be divided into upland soils, alluviums and a transi-
tional strip of colluvial soil between these two. Soil depth of less than



- 17 -
25 cm is considered unsuitable for cultivation. Soils vary in texture from
sandy, through clay-loams on higher ground to heavy clay-alluviums on river
flats. Significant crop yield increases have been achieved on all soil
types through applications of phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilizers. Sheet
erosion occurs generally throughout much of the cultivated areas of The
Gambia and, in limited areas, gulley erosion is taking place. In comparison
to other countries the erosion problem can be classified as light, but there
is now need to take active measures to encourage soil conservation.
2.09       Vegetation and Land Use.  Most of the upland natural vegetation
is savannah woodland with grass and shrub, modified by fire and cultivation.
Along the river banks, mangrove swamps line the intertidal zone and give way
upstream to short grass and tree clusters. Approximately 45% of the land area
is either under cultivation or fallow, 50% under permanent grazing, and some
5% utilized for season irrigation.
2.10       Communications.  The national all-weather road network serves the
project area on both banks of the river with the Trans-Gambia Highway linking
the southern and northern parts. Links between main roads, the river and
farming areas are few, unsurfaced and lack maintenance. The River, an import-
ant means of communication, is navigable throughout the year. The Gambia
River Transport Company and smaller boat owners handle crop movement and
Government operates a mail and passenger service between Barnjul and Basse.
At no poinit is the Gambia River bridged but several ferries connect both banks
(see Map).
2.11       Present Agriculture.  The cropping pattern of compounds is a mix-
ture of fallow, cash crop and subsistence cereals. Food crops are adjusted
to their maturity period and great care is given to the early maturing ones,
such as maize and early millet. The number of separate fields cultivated by
a compound may be as high as 50 with maize being grown within the compound,
sorghum and millet in the immediate vicinity and groundnuts and late millet
produced at more distant areas. Alluvial rice fields may be a considerable
distance from the village and cultivation methods vary depending upon whether
the area is in the region of saline water intrusion or outside that zone.
Project farmers are responsive to market prices. The areas planted to ground-
nuts, the only major cash crop, and to subsistence cereals have largely been
affected by the price of groundnuts and the price and availability of cereals.
The need for rotation of crops is, however, also recognized and is dictated by
the high incidence of rosette disease in groundnuts and a rapid build-up of
the parasitic weed Striga with constant sorghum croping. This has led to the
general use of fallowing as part of the existing farming system.
2.12       Cash crop production is dominated by groundnuts with sales in
1974/75 amounting to about 65,000 tons (50% of national production) grown on
some 40,000 ha. Both oilseed and confectionary types are grown, but the
former accounts for almost 99% of production. Sales of palm kernels, the
only other significant cash crop, are steadily declining. Subsistence crops
include sorghum, millet, maize, rice and cassava, with sorghum and millet
being traditionally the main food crops; in recent years rice has become
increasingly important. Latest estimates indicate that about 6,600 tons



- 18 -
millet (from 19,500 ha), 2,200 tons sorghum (4,000 ha), 11,600 tons rice
(6,600 ha) and small quantities of maize and Findo (Digitaria exilis), were
grown. Small areas of cassava supplement cereal supplies. Yields offer
considerable opportunity for improvement and vary from year to year due to
fluctuations in rainfall.
2.13       Unless planting schedules are lagging, the labor for crop produc-
tion is supplied by the compound. Compounds generally have considerable
underemployed labor over the year, but seasonal strains occur in the period
from mid-June to end of July. Cultivation is generally by hand and it is
estimated that only between 10 and 15% of compounds use oxen. Household
wastes and sheep and goat manuire are used on rice fields and cattle tethered
on the sorghum and millet fields during the dry season. Very little chemical
fertilizer is used.   Some improved seeds have been introduced, but are not
generally grown. The 1973-74 Agricultural Sample Survey has revealed that
most farmers do not plant at optimum seeding rates and stand counts taken
showed that groundnuts had, oni the average, only 51% of the recommended number
of plants per unit area, sorghum 40% and millet 67%.
2.14       Livestock.  In 1974, the cattle population was about 127,000 (45%
of national herd of 280,000 head), with an annual growth rate assessed at 3%
and off-take at about 8%. Sheep and goats now number about 130,000 (300,000
nationwide) and poultry a similar number. Horses and donkeys are widespread
Cattle ownership distribution is skewed with only about 20% of compounds own-
ing cattle, whereas most keep sheep, goats and poultry. Husbandry practices
are similar throughout the country. Herds usually number about 50 cattle
belonging to several owners and under the care of a single herdsman. The most
serious disease, rinderpest, is now well controlled through annual vaccination
campaigns of young cattle. Other significant diseases are contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia, hemorrhagic septicemia, blackquarter and anthrax, but vacci-
nation is only carried out when outbreaks occur.
2.15       Rural Service and Infrastructure.  These are limited except for
road and river transport. The number of schools is increasing but enrollment
is low (20% of primary and 10% of secondary school-age children). Electri-
city is not available and water is drawn from village wells or rivers.
Medical facilities are poor but the population is relatively healthy;
bilharzia is not a major health problem. Trading is confined to a small
range of consumer goods, mostly textiles and, apart from tools, traders do
not stock agricultural inputs.
B. Agricultural Institutions
2.16       Agricultural Institutions.  Agricultural and livestock services
are provided by Ministry of agricultural and Natural Resources (MANR)
through the Departments of Agriculture, Animal Health and Production and
Cooperation (Chart 15469). The Department of Agriculture is responsible
for agricultural extension, training and research, seed multiplication,
maintenance and repair of Ministry transport and equipment, crop and stored



- 19 -
product protection and tractor ploughing schemes. The Department of Animanl
Health and Production covers the normal services to livestock owners such as
disease control, research, and hides and skin improvement, besides being
responsible for animal production. The Cooperative Departmernt is responsible
for registration and supervision of cooperative societies as well as training
of staff and cooperative members. All Departments lack field housing, offices,
transport, equipment and in-service training facilities. No organization
exists providing teaching materials and simple audio-visual aids for use by
extension workers.
2.17       The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) and the: Cattle Market-
ing Board (CMB) are responsible for a wide range of marketing activities,
whereas The Gambia River Transport Company, owned by Government, GPMB and
the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) provides crop transport services. The
Gambia Commercial and Development Bank, a new institution of which the
shareholders are again Government, GPMB and GCU, has recently started
lending on a limited scale for agricultural purposes. Both GCU and the
Department of Agriculture have been involved on the purchase of ox-drawn
equipment, but these present arrangements are not satisfactory and have
resulted in intermittent deliveries due to delays in procurement.
2.18       Department of Agriculture.  The most comprehensive field organiza-
tion is that of the Department of Agriculture, which provides advice to
farmers through staff located at Divisional, Mixed Farming Center (usually
one per district) and village levels.
2.19       In the field attempts have recently been made to organize the
operations of the extension service to coincide with the boundaries of the
civil administration instead of an out-dated "Circle" organization. This
has led to improved supervision. Now, each Administrative Division is
headed by either an Agricultural Officer (degree level) or an experiened
(senior) Agricultural Superintendent (diploma level) each responsible to
the Director of Agriculture through the Deputy Director of Agriculture.
Divisional Headquarters are located at Yundum (Western Division), Mansa
Konko (Lower River Division) and Kerewan (North Bank Division).
2.20       Agricultural assistants (certificate level ) provide the link
between Divisional Officers and the farming public either through Mixed
Farming Centers (MFC) or as extension workers living in the villages.  The
majority of farmers are illiterate. Demonstrators and Instructors, who form
the lowest level workers in the extension service, are normally men selected
from primary school leavers, prefereably from leading families and who receive
limited training in single crop husbandry. Demonstrators generally live in
the villages whereas Instructors are generally located at MFC's and give
instruction in ox training.
2.21       The number and calibre of field staff are adequate to carry out
the extension work component of the proposed project but current programs
are largely ineffective as the staff lack direction and supervision; have



- 20 -
inadequate support facilities such as visual aids, housing and offices; are
largely immobile through lack of transport; have no logical work program on
which to base their extension activity; and suffer from insufficient and
irregular in-service training. Many field staff are not provided with
official transport and have taken loans to provide their own, but due to
inadequate maintenance facilities and remoteness from such facilities,
coupled with a shortage of cash, many individually owned vehicles/motorcy-
cles/bicycles are immobile. Although a farming calendar exists within the
Agricultural Division, no attempt has been made to link this with a planned
operational program of work detailing specific action or advice to farmers
and providing guidance to extension staff at all levels.
2.22       In The Gambia as a whole the rural population numbers in the
region of 420,000 persons grouped into some 16,8000 compounds. There are
105 junior agricultural extension field staff (certificate level) providing
a favorable ratio of 160 compounds per staff member, who in turn are super-
vised by eight senior agricultural extension field staff (degree/diploma
level). In addition, approximately 230 Demonstrators, trained in specific
fields, are also working at village levels, while about 120 Instructors of
various grades are located at the 24 MFCs. This staffing level provides one
extension worker to every 30 compounds in the project area. Table 2.01 gives
the present staff disposition.
Agricultural Training
2.23       Staff and farmer training is presently coordinated by an Agricul-
tural Education Officer responsible to the Permanent Secretary, MANR. Much
of staff training has, in the past, been received abroad, but this is becoming
increasingly difficult as suitable training institutions are reluctant to
allocate positions to foreign nationals. Consequently training is to be
started in The Gambia and the Ministry of Education's contribution will be
through the new Birkama College (currently under construction) which will
provide technical training for up to 25 selected secondary schools leavers
annually and will lead to a Certificate in Agriculture. Successful students
will be eligible for appointment to the Agricultural Division as Agricultural
Assistants. Those seeking degree training will continue to be sent abroad,
but the numbers are small. Up until recently the Yundum Agricultural Station
has run agricultural training courses of one year duration for secondary
school leavers. Successful students of this training have been sent abroad
fot further training leading to a Certificate in Agriculture. Unsuccessful
students have been appointed to the Agricultural Division as Junior Agricul-
tural Assistants. With the advent of Brikama College, the type of training
provided at Yundum becomes unnecessary. The cadre of Agricultural Demonstra-
tors has been developed over the years and has received minimal training,
generally in a sinlge crop at either an Agricultural Station or at a Mixed
Farming Center. Training has been essentially practical but of uneven qual-
ity and limited scope. Basic training has not been reinforced by periodic
refresher courses.



- 21 -
2.24        There are 24 Mixed Farming Center (MFC) scattered throughout The
Gambia (13 in project area). These comprise some 4 ha of arable land and
buildings constructed in village style to house trainees and staff.  In
addition, there is a cattle byre and one paddock to accommodate the center' s
and farmer's oxen, an implement store and an open meeting hall.  Wells of
variable efficiency provide water. At most centers existing buildings are
in need of extensive rehabilitation or replacement. Apart from the three-
month training course, the centers are little used, but the arable area is
often utilized for bulking of seed and fertilizer experiments. Each tlixed
Farming Center is staffed by an Agricultural Assistant and a number of
Instructors. The primary task undertaken is the training of draughit oxen
and their handlers.  Courses are normally of 3 months duration and are
residential. Up to 25 persons attend each course which is held once only
each year. In addition to the training of oxen, attempts are made to teach
trainees--who are generally young men sponsored by their relatives or young
farmers in their own right who have recently acquired oxen -- modern and
improved agricultural techniques. On completion of the residential train-
ing, farmers are loaned a full-range of equipment. However, the majority of
the trainees, by undertaking contract work, in addition to expanding their
own cultivated areas, earn sufficient to purchase their own implements
within a relatively short time. Few demonstrations and field days are
arranged for farmers and little village level training undertaken. There is
no organization providing training material for use by fielc extension staff
and this contributes to the lack of farmer level training.
2.25        Agricultural Research.  Agronomic research in Thet Gambia has
largely been carried out at Yundum Research Station, just outside Banjul, in
WD.  The Station has Agronomy, Crop Protection, Horticultural, Chemistry,
Agricultural Engineering, Forestry and Animal Husbandry sect-ions. Research
results are in many respects representative only of the western part of the
country as Yunduml ha a coastal climate and is located on a sinlge type of
upland soil. The station undertakes some variety screening, basic nutrition
and crop protection trials and is engaged in limited seed multiplication. At
present the station is staffed by one Agronomist of Technical Officer level.
2.26        In more recent times, and as a result of the IDA financed rice
project, a second research station was opened at Sapu in MII) which largely
concentrates on experimental work with irrigated rice. VariLety screening,
some seed bulking, basic nutrition and water control have been the main lines
of investigation. In charge of the research work is an experienced Rice
Agronomist from the Netherlands. Sapu maintains close cooperation with the
West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA), of which The Gambia is a
member. A program carried out on the experimental sub-station at Jenoi (LRD)
has been devoted to rice cultivation in saline conditions.
2.27        Seed Multiplication.  There is no commercial seedl production
in The Gambia and the Department of Agriculture has only recently started,
on a limited scale, a seed multiplication scheme for groundnuts.  Accord-
ing to current estimates certified seed for about 3,000 ha of groundnuts
(sufficient for about 3% of the total groundnut area) was produced in the



- 22 -
1975 season.  Also small amotnts of several rice varieties have been tested
and bulked but have not yet reached the stage of general release. Apart
from these two crops no other seed is currently being produced on a signi-
ficant scale.
2.28       Department of Animlal Health and Production is in charge of animal
health and, in 1974, became responsible for animal production. Meat inspec-
tion is presently the responsiblity of the Human Health Services. The Depart-
ment is divided into three units: the Division of Animal Health and two units
dealing with Animal Husbandry and Production and Animal Industries. The
Department's activities are largely focused on disease control through vacci-
nation campaigns. The extension service is small and so far few improvements
in animal husbandry techniques have been introduced. Field services are pro-
vided to farmers through 22 field clinics (for location see Map) and supported
by the central diagnostic laboratory located at Veterinary Headquarters in
Abuko. Clinics are generally staffed by Livestock Assistants and Inspectors
and general field supervision provided by a Veterinary Officer located at
Mansa Konko. A Technical Officer provides advice to poultry keepers in the
Banjul area and advice to butchers on hides and skins drying is given by
Assistants located at Abuko, Mansa Konko, Kaur, Basse and Yoro Beri Kunda.
Government staff are often assisted by Veterinary Inspectors appointed by
Local Area Councils. Recent staffing of the Department is given below.



Table 7
Staff - Departnent cf Animal Health and Production
Animal    Animal
Head    Health    Husbandry  &   Animal        Cattle
Designation        Office  Division  Production   Industries  Marketing  Total
Veterinary            2        1                  -                   -        3
Animal Husbandry
Officers           -       -           1                           -        1
Senior Livestock
Officers           -        -          1                           -        1
Executive Officers   1                    -
Assistant Livestceck
Officers           °       -           1              -            1       2
Laboratory
Superintendent    -        1           -              -            -       1
Technical Officers   I         -           1             1            2        5
Livestock
Assistants         2       11          8              6            -      27
Laboratory
Assistants         1        1          -              -            -       2
Livestock              1/
Inspectors         4      18           -              -            -      22
TOTAL                11       32          12             7            3       65
11 Trainees.
Effectiveness of staff is limited by lack of transport, insufficient
equipment, drugs, medicines and vaccines to mount satisfactory animal
health programns and by lack of systematic staff training.  Lack of staff
and financial resources has almost precluded any attempt to improve live-
stock husbandry.



- 24 -
2.29       No veterinary or animal husbandry research is carried out
except some limited feeding trials. Research on trypanosomiasis is
being conducted, under UK aid programs, by a Glasgow University
Veterinary Team working within the Medical Research Center. Limited
experiments on fodder crops have been undertaken at Sapu and Yoro
Beri Kunda.
2.30       Veterinary Training.  At the Animal Health Production head-
quarters at Abuko, a small training center exists for the training of
Vererinary Inspectors, Livestock Assistants, Hides and Skins Assistants
and Laboratory Assistants. MuLch of the training provided is ad hoc, as
no full-time staff are available. Veterinary Assistants and all degree
personnel are trained abroad. It is envisaged that Brikama College will
eventually provide suitable training in this field.
2.31       The cooperative movement in The Gambia, which up to recently
was the only source of institutional credit to farmers, was started in
1955 to assist farmers market their groundnut crop. Department of Cooperation
was established within the Ministry of Agriculture at this time. During
1958/59, several significant changes were introduced. The staff of the
Department was increased to enable greater geographic coverage, the unions
were transformed into primary societies and the Gambia Central Cooperative
Banking and Marketing Union (GCCBMU) was established as the apex unit. The
conversion of the unions into primary societies was prompted by problems of
supervision and the inability of small village societies to be viable, par-
ticularly in earning sufficient profits to pay the salary of a secretary.
The formation of the GCCBMU was an attempt to coordinate the activities
of primary societies and their funding. As a result of an official com-
mission of enquiry into the operations of cooperatives in 1970, the GCCMBU
was re-named the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) and its banking functions
removed as it had failed in this activity but had made profits from ground-
nut trading.
2.32       The cooperative movement in The Gambia now follows the tradi-
tional structure, with GCU as the apex organization. Linked to it are 62
primary societies engaged in the financing and marketing of the groundnut
crop, as well as the Gambia Cutter Owners Cooperative Society (GCOCS) and
32 thrift and loan societies. Each primary society covers between 4 and
30 villages. Secretaries of societies are appointed and transferred by
the Manager of GCU. Of these 62 societies, only 26 have permanent struc-
tures such as stores, offices and seccos (bulking areas for buying of
groundnuts), and many are now in poor condition. Funds for the annual
purchase of the groundnut crop are provided by the Gambia Commercial and
Development Bank (of which the GCU is a shareholder) to the Union at 7%
per annum interest. These finances are guaranteed by Government. The
Union, in turn, lends funds to primary societies at 10%. GCU is in a rea-
sonable financial position particularly as the proportion of the ground-
nut crop evacuated by cooperatives has increased over the past few
years, rising from about 26% in the 1969/70 season to 46% in 1973/74.



- 25 -
2.33       The 62 primary societies had a membership of 57,520 in 1973 and
65,445 in 1974. Normally, compound heads only are members of societies.
The societies, as defined in the by-laws, are multipurpose cooperatives
but have always been and are still primarily concerned with groundnut mar-
keti.ng. Of the 38 societies which fall into the project area, 22 will
actually be involved in project activities.
2.34       Through the Registrar of Cooperatives, the Department of Co-
operation provides supporting services to the movement such as supervision,
education, audit, handli.ng of enquiries and liquidation. It also has the
task of formulating a national policy and program for the development of
tihe cooperative movement in the country. Present staffing at headquarters
and in the project area is given below.
Table 8
STAFF - DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATION
1. HEADQUARTERS:
I Registrar
1 Deputy Registrar
1 Senior Coop. Officer (Relief)
Audit Section:
I Senior Assistant Registrar
I Senior Cooperative Auditor
2 Cooperative Officers
3 Auditors
Education and Training:
1 Assistant Registrar
I Cooperative Officer
1 Inspector
.Clerical:
I Personal Assistant (shorthand typist)
2 Clerical Assistants
I Temporary Clerk
2 Messengers
3 Drivers
22



- 26 -
2. BRIKAMA (11 Marketing Societies)
1 Assistant Registrar
1 Cooperative Officer
4 Inspectors
1 Clerk
I Officer Messenger
1Office Driver
9
3. KEREWAN (18 Marketing Societies)
1 Assistant Registrar
1 Trainee Auditor
7 Inspectors
1 Clerical Assistant
1 Driver
12
4. MANSA KONKO (9 Marketing Societies)
1 Assistant Registrar
3 Inspectors
1 Trainee
1 Temporary Office Clerk
I Driver
I lessenger
8
However, staffing levels are not adequate to provide continuous supervision
of societies and to ensure regular audit of accounts. This shortcoming is
principally a result of a shortage of funds, and the Department proposes
to expand the Inspector level to provide one to each society.
2.35       Cooperative Training.  Most Cooperative Department staff have,
in the past, received their training locally under adverse conditions,
there being no proper center available.  Senior staff are usually trained
abroad. No opportunity has hitherto existed for regular training of Primary
Cooperative Society officials and members.
2.36       The cooperative movement has been subject to two Commissions of
Lnquiry. The first in 1970 and commonly known as the Wordsworth Commission
was triggered by a decline in the quantity of groundnuts hatidleG by the
cooperative movement, a number of financial irregularities and a general
fall in the standard of management of the then GCCBMU. The Commission
made recommendations for improved management and operation of the coopera-
tive movement which were not implemented and the movement stumbled to another



crisis resultng in the 1974 commission of enquiry. The terms of reference
of the Commission (known locally as the Kennard Commission) were much stronger
than those of its predecesor and concentrated on financial aspects; in par-
ticular the finances and operations of GCU. The Commission was also charged
with advising Government on measures needed for stricter financial control of
the movement. At the time of appraisal, the report still had not been made
public. The effects of these two Commissions on the cooperative movement in
The Gambia cannot be underestimated. Currently, morale, particularly within
the Department of Cooperation and GCU, is low and the adverse impact on
individual society members should be apprecited. That some malpractices have
occurred cannot be denied but failure to implement most of the recommendations
of the 1970 Commission must rest with Government. As a result of the last
enquiry, the cooperatives were put under a ministerial management committee
pending Government decision on its recommendations and three senior officials
were suspended from duty. These were the Registrar of Cooperatives and both
the Mlanager and Senior Accountant of GCU.  Recently, all three have been
replaced by persons seconded under Technical Assistance.
2.37       Agricultural Credit.  The cooperatives have been the main source of
institutionalized credit, although now the Gambia Commercial and Development
Bank (GCDB) is embarking upon a modest agricultural lending program. The
amount of non-institutionalized credit to farmers is not known but is believed
to be extensive. The main sources of funds are groundnut traders, money
lenders within villages and relatives. The principal type of credit to
society members has been "subsistence" credit which is given in cash at the
beginning of the groundnut season. It is a blanket-type credit program and
has been operating for many years. The loan is issued to members under the
guarantee of a committee member. Originally members were entitled to loans
of up to one half of the value of their previous groundnut crop marketed
through the cooperative, but the proportion is now set at a limit of one-third
of the crop, with a maximum loan of D 200 (US$ 105) per member. The actual
size of the loan is determined by the value of the member's previous years
produce sold through his society but it may be reduced to a sum wlhich he may
be reasonably expected to repay.
2.38       In 1973, all outstanding debts on previous loans issued by the
cooperatives between 1956 and 1969 were written off but since 1973 unpaid
debts on "subsistence" credit have again climbed to D 1.035 million (US$
545,000) at the end of the 1973/74 fiscal year. The total amcount of bad
debts written off in 1973 was D 360,980. Statutory reserves of societies
were used and as a result they were cut by almost 50%. A similar decision
to cancel outstanding debts could not be taken at present as reserves are
not high enough.  The annual build up of outstanding loans si.nce cancel-
lation is shown below:



- 28 -
Table 9
Year                   Yearly Loans Issued                 Amount Outstanding
(D)                               (D)
1970/71                       1,356,250                          90,000
1971/72                       1,648,267                         210,000
1972/73                       2,838,987                         785,000
1973/74                       2,696,901                       1,035,000
1974/75                       4,000,000                           N/A
The guarantor system based on the recommendations of committee members has
failed to ensure higher loan recovery, while the legal process of arbitra-
tion and threats of court action have not stimulated repayment. The reasons
for this situation are varied but the very nature of blanket credit must be
a prime cause, reinforced by the very low level of literacy of both members
and committee members. The cancellation of past debts in 1973 can only
have further reinforced reluctance to repay loans.
2.39       The generally poor record of loan repayment in the past has
caused more stringent conditions to be imposed upon societies. New loans
are aot granted to a society by GCU unless 96% of the previous year's
loans have been repaid. A breakdown of loans made over the last two
groundnut seasons is shown below.
Table 10
Gambia Cooperative Union
Subsistence Credit - Geographic Distribution and Size of Loans
Amount of        No. of           Size of Loans - Percent
Loans           Loans
Up to   D26-   D51-   D101-  D151-
(D)                      D25    D50    DIOO   D150   D200
1973/74
Briknama 1/     302,670       5,014        23      34       30       8      6
Kerewan 1/   1,285,116        8,257         4       16      31      19     29
Mlansokonko 1/  241,135         398        17      32       32      10      7
Georgetown      359,364       4,970        22      30       26       8     11
Basse           505,000       4,148         9      23       34      14     20
1/ Project area.



- 29 -
Average  Average  Average  Average  Average
Totals  2,693,285  22,787          14        25       30        13        18
1974/75
Brikama 1/      461,720   6,941    23         29        30       11         7
Kerewan 1/   1,663,512  14,476       4        14        30       20        32
Mlansokonko 1/  456,934   4,831    12         24        32       1.5       17
Georgetown      528,134   6,615    16         28        28       13        15
Basse           905,245   8,927    12         15        27       11'       27
Average Average Average Average Average
Totals  4,015, 545  41,790         12        21        29       l6        22
1/ Project Area
Loans are given out in July of each year and recovery is finalized by March
of the following year. In the groundnut season 1974/75, repayaent of loans
was about 84% of total credit issue but the performance of soc-ieties varied
greatly. The breakdown of the data by the five areas of the country suggests
that repayment declines as distance from Banjul increases. The average re-
payment record within The Gambia (88%) compares more than favorably with
corresponding national figures in other developing countries; particularly
as the loans are issued in cash.
2.40       The only other institutional credit organization of potential
importance is the Gambia Commercial and Developoment Bank (GCDB). This
bank was established in 1972, with an authorized capital of D 1.0 million.
GCDB is divided into three departments, each under a manager: the commer-
cial, development and accounting departments. Government owns 52% of the
capital with the remainder split between GPMB and GCU.
2.41       The Bank, through its development department, has recently granted
a number of loans to the agricultural sector but these have been limited due
to restricted funds. Its approach to agricultural credit and its place in a
national credit program has now crystallized and would involve the field staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.  Credit would be issued
in kind after examination of farm budgets with credit worthiness being deter-
mined by extension personnel and officials of GCDB. The Bank, at present, is
hesitant to make credit available to individual small scale farmers but is
prepared to work through the cooperative movement.
2.42       The volume of Agricultural lending which commenced in March 1973
has been small but the size of individual loans range from D 3,000-25,000.
These have been based upon adequate collateral, and the enteprises finan-
ced have been rice, vegetable, citrus and poultry production. Staff are
well trained and sufficient in number to embark on a larger credit program.



- 30 -
GCDB is anxious to expand into rural areas through establishment of
branches amd is aware of the need to mobilize rural savings.
2.43       Crop Marketing.  The GaLmbia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB),
purchases groundnuts through appointing a limited number of licensed buying
agents (LBA), generally private ccompanies or GCU. It pays its LBAs a trans-
port fee and an allowance to cover buying costs. Sub-agents (usually primary
cooperative societies) appointed by LBAs operate stations where farmers
deliver produce. LBAs ensure that their sub-agents pay the minimum producer
price set annually by GPtIB and Government. GPMB operates similar marketing
schemes for rice and cotton. LBA's remain responsible for produce purchased
until received by GPMB at either of its two main depots (Banjul and Kaur).
Shortage of transport, both road and river, and present capacity of groundnut
decorticating plants limit the delivery rate of groundnuts which results in
significant losses from shrinkage, spoilage and theft. In order to speed up
delivery, GPMB is embarking upon aL storage depot scheme and within the project
area, four stores of capacities ranging from 2,875 to 8,150 tons either have
been (at Banjul) or will be constructed in the near future. Furthermore, GPbIB
has recently acquired controlling interest in the Gambia River Transport
Comany and proposes to expand its transport capability. Further details are
at paras 7.02-05.
2.44       Livestock Marketing.  All of Gambia's meat supply comes from
local production, the borders having been closed since 1969 for reasons of
disease control. Due to cattle distribution and the demand within the
Banjul area, main cattle movements are from east to west. After localized
purchase, cattle are generally moved to Banjul by truck. River transport
for cattle does not exist.
2.45       The Cattle Marketing Board (CMB) was established in 1972 as a
result of amendments to the Cattle tMarketing Act (1955), and which gave
it the sole responsibility for cattle marketing. It began operations with
no field organization or facilites, very limited financial resources and
with staff of the Veterinary Deparment acting as part-time buying agents.
CGIB virtually ceased operations in 1975 as a result of considerable operating
losses and meanwhile is licensing buyers to provide slaughter stock. A re-
organization is in progress involving a review of the legislation and employ-
ment of experienced staff to fill key posts. Meanwhile licensed buyers
continue to undertake the marketing function.
2.46       The Banjul slaughterhouse is the only one in The Gambia.  It
commenced operation by the City Council in 1967 and has an annual through-
put of about 5,000 cattle, 1,600 sheep, 4,200 goats and 1,000 pigs. The
facility is presently underutilized but lacks cold storage. Up-country
slaughtering facilities consist of about 30 slaughtering slabs with a
meat inspection service, operating under the jurisdiction of Area Councils.
Hides and skins are purchased and sold by an autonomous public company -
Gambia Hides Export Co. Ltd.



- 31 -
CHAPTER III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01       The project aims, over a four-year period, to increase the cereal
and cash crop production and livestock husbandry of some 48,000 people
living in 65 selected villages (2,2000 compounds) located throughout the
project area. Improvements to existing veterinary services and develop-
ment of cattle fattening and marketing would be undertaken on a country-wide
basis. Increased production would be achieved through better coordinated and
strengthened government services, improved communications and marketing and by
the introduction of proven package programs for crop production. Project
implementation would be through existing agencies and departments of Govern-
ment with project actions being coordinated by a Project Coordinator, located
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources and responsible to the
Permanent Secretary. The main project components would be:
(a) strengthening of the agricultural extension service by
upgrading Mixed Farming Centers by constructing housing,
offices and improved water supplies, providing transport
to field staff, improving field supervision, establishing
a training center and visual aids center for the training
and support of extension workers;
(b) improving livestock production by expanding animal health
campaigns through the provision of vaccines, drugs, equip-
ment and transport and training for field staff, by
better utilization of dry-weather grazing through the
provision of water and stock routes, by introduction
of better livestock husbandry through the provision of
staff and a pilot cattle fattening program, and by the
construction of a limited number of cattle markets,
stock routes and holding grounds;
(c)  supplying farming inputs as credit in kind to farmers
(fertilizers, seed, draught oxen and implements) through
a strengthened and better trained cooperative movement.
The establishment of a Seed Multiplication UJnit would
ensure seed supplies to farmers and agricull:ural research
services would also be expanded;
(d)  improving crop marketing through the construction and
improvement of cooperatively owned produce inarkets and
development of a limited amount of crop extraction roads;
(e) ensuring coordination of project implementation by pro-
viding a Project Coordinator and supporting staff;



- 32 -
(f)  aiding the introduction of improved agricultural practices
to illiterate farmers through a pilot functional numeracy
program; and
(g) providing funds :for the preparation of a second phase
agricultural development project, a feasibility study
for the development of Jakhaly Swamp, a study into
methods of improving groundnut marketing and a study
of the accounting procedures of MANR.
B. Project Phasing
3.02       Phasing of main project components is outlined below:
Table 11
Year
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    Total
Number of compounds
taking up improved
production                   -          500      900        800       2,200
Total crop area under
improved production
(ha) of which:               -       5,340   10,840       9,720     25,900
a. groundnuts (ha)         -       2,650    5,380       4,750      12,780
b. rainfed rice (ha)       -       1,930    3,950       3,520       9,400
c. dryland cereals (ha)  -            760    1,510      1,450       3,720
Infrastructure Development
No. of farmiing centers
up-graded                  3            3        4                     10
No. of produce markets
constructed                8            8                              16
No. of produce markets
improved                  -             6                               6
No. cf livestock markets
constructed                5            5                              10
No. of holding grounds
constructed                1            1                               2
No. of kms of feeder
roads constructed          -          100     100         100         300



- 33 -
C. Detailed Features
3.03       Agricultural Extension and Training.  The project would up-
grade ten MFCs located in the project area.  Provision would be made for
the construction, where necessary, of two standard Government junior
staff quarters at each center, together with suitable office accommoda-
tion and storage facilites for tools, farm inputs and produce. Water
supplies would be improved by lining and covering existing wells or the
provision of an additional well. Hand pumps would be supplied. Roof
catchment equipment and covered storage tanks would also be provided for
all buildings.
3.04       The numbers of extension staff are adequate to carry out the
proposed programs but to improve staff mobility the project would provide
twenty light motorcycles and 120 bicycles for use of Agricultural Assis-
tants and Demonstrators in the project area.
3.05       In order to provide an adequate and functional supervisory system
for field staft, the project would institute an additional level by the
introduction of a Regional Headquarters located at Mansa Konko (Jenoi). This
would then ensure staff supervision at National (Departmental headquarters),
Regional, Divisional and District levels. The objective of the Regional
structure is to provide an essential field link which is presently lacking.
Mansa Konko was chosen as Regional headquarters as it is well located in
relation to access to all parts of the project area. Also land for building
is available and a nucleus of facilities already exist (storage, workshops,
living and office accommodation). The project would provide ol-fice and living
accommodation for a Regional Agricultural Officer and his administrative staff
and include office space for equivalent staff of other Divisions of the
Mlinistry.
3.06       An in-service training center would be constructed at the site
of the proposed Regional Headquarters which would be under the direct con-
trol of the Regional Agricultural Office and managed, on a day-to-day basis,
by a senior Agricultural Assistant. Facilities at the center would include
sleeping accommodation, classrooms, and dining room for up to 25 persons.
The primary task of the center would be to update field staff in improved
agricultural and livestock techniques and keep staff abreast of the immediate
extension tasks associated with the time of year. It is envisaged that groups
of Demonstrators would attend 1,2 or 3 day courses regularly, being taught the
next stage of their work program and at the same time reporting upon past pro-
gress, achievements and problems, thus helping to develop an adequate report-
ing system. Although the Regional Agricultural Officer would be responsible
for providing the necessary staff to run courses, generally from officers
within the Region, he would liaise with the Agricultural Education Officer and
would obtain tthe services of specialist officers when necessary.



- 34 -
3.07       With the development of better extension services within the
Ministry of Agriculture comes a need for a production and teaching center
to provide training aids to extension workers. Five mobile film units
are to be provided to the Ministry through bilateral aid and will
require locally produced material, servicing for its equipment and
training for its staff. Efforts are at present being made to develop
closer liaison with the Film Unit of the Ministry of Information with the
objective of producing and presenting rural/agricultural films. The
project would provide and equip a suitable building to house the Exten-
sion Aids Unit (EAU), situated at the Agricultural Department Headquarters
where land is available. The building would comprise two sections each of
approximately 185 m2 . The first building would house offices, editorial
section, pictorial production workshop, printing room and paper store,
while the second building would house a photographic unit with darkroom,
film writing and editing room, a projection room cum classroom, tape studio,
projector repair shop and store, a wood and metal workshop, and a library
for tape, film and other material.
3.08       The Extension Aid Center would provide the necessary training
material for staff of all Divisions of the Ministry and would serve as a
base for the five mobile film units, although each would physically operate
from a Divisional Headquarters.
3.09       The center would be staffed by an Agricultural Education Officer,
and four Agricultural Assistants and these have already been identified and
trained. The project would, however, provide a six month fellowship for one
of the Agricultural Assistants to study the operation of similar units in
other African countries. The center would be under the direct control of the
Agricultural Education Officer and would also be provided with clerical and
artisan staff. The United States Agency for International Development has
already agreed to provide substantial amounts of equipment for the center.
3.10       The center would also be responsible for the training and servic-
ing of the staff carrying out the functional numeracy program (para 3.34).
3.11       Improved Livestock Production.  The project would up-grade and
expand existing country-wide animal health programs by increasing the number
of vaccinations against contagious bovine pleuropneumonia from some 600,000
at present to 140,000 by Project year 4. Vaccinations would also be inten-
sified against anthrax, blackquarter and pasteurellosis and vaccination of
sheep and goats against rinderpest initiated. Vaccinations would be free
of charge. The project would provide vaccines and equipment necessary for
storage and the program would be carried out by existing field staff located
at field clinics. Systematic treatment of calves against roundworms would
be gradually introduced to the use of mineral licks for their stock. The
project would provide for the construction of an animal house, wash and
sterilization rooms and incinerators. Furthermore, essential equipment



- 35 -
for use by the diagnostic services at the Central Laboratory is lacking
and the project would provide bacteriological incubators, microscopes,
autoclave, microtone, automatic tissue processor and refrigerators and
deep freezers for the storage of vaccines. Simple equipment, such as
microscopes, hand centrifuges and glassware, would be supplied to six
field clinics to enable them to carry out field diagnosis of disease.
3.12       The effectiveness of field staff is severely restricted by the
lack of transport and the project would provide, for use at field clinics,
10 light pick-ups, 26 motorcycles and 25 bicycles.
3.13       Training facilities are lacking at the Central Laboratory and
in order to improve the situation the project would construct and equip
a classroom and library. One training fellowship would be awarded to
enable an Animal Production Officer to be trained abroad.
3.14       The project would fund the provision of staff, housing and
transport to enable an effective animal husbandry coverage of the project
area. A regional Animal Husbandry Officer would be located at Mansa
Konko with Divisional Officers located in each of three administrative
Divisions. An Animal Husbandry Inspector would be stationed at each of
the ten Mixed Farming Centers and would control five demonstrators to be
located at village level. Regional, Divisional and Mixed Farming Center's
are available but village level staff would be trained at the Central
Laboratory. The main activities of project staff would be to encourage
better care of calves and lactating cows including the introduction of
supplementary feeding (particularly at weaning), use of mineral licks and
calf drenching. Particular attention would be paid to the better use of
agricultural by-products such as groundnut hay, rice straw , stovers, etc.
To improve access to existing natural fodder and water resources, a program
would be started to include demarcation of cattle routes through densely
cultivated areas and the development of water supplies in those areas which
presently lack dry weather sources of cattle watering. Funds would be pro-
vided for the purchase and operation of a drilling rig and for the manu-
facturing of concrete posts for demarcation of stock routes.
3.15       To improve livestock and meat quality the project would intro-
duce, on a pilot basis, a village cattle fattening scheme. CMB would
provide, on credit, suitable animals for fattening by selected villagers,
together with the necessary protein suppplement (groundnut cake). Farmers
would provide the necessary shelter and the basic cereal ingredient of the
ration. The scheme would gradually increase from 100 animals fattened
in Project Year I to 500 by Year 4. Advice to farmers would be provided
by Animal Husbandry Staff and CMB would purchase fat stock. CMB would
study the possibility of paying higher prices for better quality animals,
a demand for which exists amongst hotels and restaurants catering for the
tourist trade.
3.16       No field infrastrucure now exists for the purchase of livestock.
The project would provide the minimum development necessary to provide a



- 36 -
country-wide marketing network, and would include the construction of 10
small buying points, strategically located and each comprising a few holding
pens, weigh scales, water point and office. Two, 150 ha holding grounds
would be established and a limited series of stock routes developed lead-
ing from the markets and holding grounds to selected points on the River.
Holding pens, together with water supply (if necessary) would be constructed
to allow for the transhipping of animals onto livestock barges. Transport,
in the form of two lorries and one light pick-up, would be purchased to carry
out and supervise the construction program.
3.17       Agricultural Credit.  Under the project the incremental require-
ments of farming inputs, oxen and ox-drawn equipment would be made available
to participating farmers on seasonal or medium-term (three years) credit.
Seasonal credit would cover the purchase of seed, seed dressings and fer-
tilizer and would average D 495 per compound. Medium-term credit, to the
value of D 1,495, would cover the purchase of a pair of oxen, multi-purpose
tool bar, plough, cultivator, seeder, groundnut lifter and cart. Funds
for both short- and medium-term credit would be made available by the Central
Bank to GCU and primary societies (para 5.07 - 5.08). A 10% deposit would
be made by farmers against the purchase price of oxen and equipment.   Fertil-
izer use would increase from about 1,500 m. tons in Project Year 2 to about
2,500 m. tons by end of the project period.  Tonnage of improved seeds planted
would steadily increase to 870 t by PY5. Over the project period some 1600
pairs of oxen would be provided on credit.
3.18      In this initial phase, project-financed credit would be limited to
cooperative society members and applications for credit would be made by
compound head to the Secretary of their Cooperative Society, who would con-
solidate applications. Individual applications would then be appraised by
the Field Officer of GCU and the Agricultural Assistant responsible for the
area and recommendations made to the head office of GCU which would be
responsible for final approval.
3.19       Farming inputs and implements would be delivered by GPMB (who would
be responsible for their bulk procurement) to Cooperative Society stores, as
directed by GCU.  Oxen would be supplied either through licensed cattle buyers
or LMB and credit would not be granted until approval had been given as to
their suitability by the Field Officer of GCU and the Agricultural Assistant.
3.20       Credit recovery would be through the cooperative society at the
time of groundnut and rice sales. Assurances have been given by Government
that no new credit would be made to cooperative societies which had not
recovered more than 95% of all outstanding loans.
3.21       Seed Multiplication.  It has been recommended and Government
has accepted that seeds production in The Gambia should eventually be
directed centrally by a Seeds Production Committee (SPC), whose chairman



- 37 -
would be the Permanent Secretary of MANR or the Director of Agriculture
and whose secretary would be a professional Senior Seeds Officer (SSO).
The SPC would lay down the basic legislation covering seed multiplication
and would have the overall responsibility for seeds production, processing,
storage, marketing and for the release of new and proven varieties into
the multiplication system. Responsibility for the production of seed would
lie with SSO, who would also head SMU. SSO would administratively responsible
to the Director of Agriculture. The SSO would, for the first three years of
the project, be an experienced expatriate, understudied from the beginning by
a Gambia agricultural graduate. Other staff of SMU would be three Seeds
Inspectors, equipped with motorcycles, and who would register seed growers,
carry out field inspections, organize "roguing" of multiplication plots,
supervise harvesting, post-harvest handling and storage and deliver seed
samples to the laboratory. Two laboratory Assistants would be responsible for
seed analytical work. They would be trained by an experienced Seeds Analyst
who would visit The Gambia for a period of six months, the cost of which is
provided for under the technical assistance element of the project.
3.22       SMU would be located on the Sapu Research Station in MID.  An
existing office, housing, laboratory and storage facilities would be improved
under the project to provide a satisfactory base for the activit:ies of the
SMU. The station would be equipped with vehicles, tractors, seed handling
and agricultural machinery for carrying out field opertaions. Transport
and field equipment would be shared with the research unit. Indications
have been received from USAID in Banjul that they would finance the reha-
bilitation of old stores in Sapu, a drying shed, equipping of the seed
laboratory, fencing and some imports of breeder's seed from Senegal.
3.23       The Sapu Research Station has about 140 ha of land oiE which cur-
rently only 12 ha are in use mostly for rice production and some upland crop
experimentation.  The project would provide finance for bush clearing of a
further 30 ha of arable land for seed multiplication and field experimenta-
tion purposes.                          1
3.24       Government has agreed that The Gambia should have no plant breed-
ing program on its own at this time and that breeder's seed wouLd be imported
periodically from neighboring countries, particularly Senegal. SMU would
initially produce certified seed of oilseed and confectionary groundnuts,
alluvial and upland rice and sorghum sufficient only to meet the project
needs and cotton for the African Development Bank financed cotton project
in URD. The imported breeder's seed would generally pass through three
multiplication stages: foundation seed grown at Sapu and Yundun research
stations, registered seed multiplied at MFCs and certified seed grown by
farmers. Seed growers would be registered and would receive a bonIus of
for grounduts and other seed crops.  The quantities of certified seed actually
required by the project have been increased by 10% to allow for losses in
multiplication and include a 20% reserve for unexpected lo.ses caused by low
yields, rejections, etc. Seed production allows for a tiiree year renewal
cycle on commercial farms. In the two years after seed renewal the farmer's
seed requirements would be met by planting homegrown seed. The extension
service would provide necessary advice and supervision for proper storage and
seed dressing. Seed quantities required by project are given in Table 3.01.



- 38 -
3.25      Agricultural Research.  The agricultural research station at
Sapu is to be developed as the main station of The Gambia. It is cen-
trally situated and has easy access to all major ecological conditions
of the country; consequently outstation trials can be easily organized and
supervised. On the station itself there is enough swamp and upland avail-
able to allow not only meaningful research for both groups of crops but
also to provide the necessary isolation for seed multiplication. The re-
search program in Sapu would be carried out by two professional agronomists,
one to cover irrigated crops, the other upland crops. During the first
three years of the project, these research officers would be expatriates,
provided under technical assistance, but from year two and three onwards,
both would be understudied by graduate Gambians who would take over and
continue the research work. Thes agronomists would be responsible to the
Officer-in-charge of Sapu Research Station. The research program from
year to year would be worked out in cooperation with and approval of the
Director of Agriculture. Research requirements of the farming community
would be made known to the research organization by the extension service.
The program would maintain close cooperation with SMU and, in fact, all
foundation seed plots would be grown on the research station under the
Agronomists' supervision. Top priority in research would be the syste-
matic screening of irrigated and swamp rice cultivars and all upland crops
of importance. To this end close contacts would be established and main-
tained with research establishments in other West African countries and
particularly with international research institutions such as IITA in
Nigeria, IRAT in Senegal and WAIRA in Liberia.
3.26       The project would provide finance for the provision of two
senior and two junior staff houses, labor quarters and for the construc-
tion of office accommodation, to be shared with SMU.  Two tractors, a
lorry, three pick-up vehicles, and a full range of agricultural equip-
ment and implements would be shared with SMU.
3.27       Cooperative Development.  Project actions largely depend on
strengthening the cooperative movement by providing improved supervision
and training of staff, society members and office bearers, and by improving
facilities at society level. No changes in the existing number of societies
is envisaged but the project seeks to ensure adequate day-to-day supervi-
sion of these societies by providing one Cooperative Inspector to each so-
ciety, a total of 23 in all additional to existing staff. Cooperative In-
spectors would be located at Mixed Farming Centers and supervised by exist-
ing Divisional staff and the project would provide the necessary housing.
In order that regular audits may be carried out of all society accounts,
the number of auditors would be increased by six and transport provided to
ensure their mobility. Ten pick-ups would be purchased to replace existing
Departmental vehicles and 28 motorcycles provided for inspectors.
3.28       Training of staff and members at society level is essential and
over the next few years will require considerable and continuing efforts.
The project would provide for a 25-bed training center to be constructed in
Banjul. Staff for this center and more especially for follow-up training
would also be provided, by allocating one training officer to each Divi-
si5on.



- 39 -
3.29       Improved facilities are required at almost all the 22 societies
involved in project activities. The project proposes to up-grade existing
buildings (six societies) and construct new buildings (16 societies)
where needed. The program would include the construction of an office/
house for the society secretary, a 50-ton input and implement store and a
concrete marketing area with surrounding security fence. Necessary office
and marketing equipment would be provided where required. Assurances would
be sought that Government would provide the necessary land for market develop-
ment.
3.30       Crop Extraction Roads.  The national system of primary all weather
roads is satisfactory but the movement of crops from remote areas is severely
hampered by the absence of secondary and feeder roads. The distances in-
volved are not great but the lack of roads provides a considerable bottle-
neck in the handling and marketing of the major cops, espec-ially groundnuts.
Primary Cooperative Societies have established produce markets in the heart
of the production areas and the movement of crops from farm to market and
market to depot is severely hampered, and transport of produce is often
by head load, ox cart or by donkey and forms one of the principal produc-
tion costs to farmers.
3.31       The project calls for the construction and maintenance of low-
class roads to serve agricultural areas selected for project actions and
will link produce markets and groups of villages with existing main roads.
These roads would be designed and constructed to provide good dry weather
access and permit minimal access during the wet season. Ten-ton trucks
are likely to be used for crop extraction, which takes place in the dry
season after the harvest and no problems of passage are expected. Because
of low traffic volume expected, the roads do not need to be constructed
to a high standard. It is therefore proposed that these roads would have a
clearing width of 4.5 meters and a roadway width of 10.0 meters. In prac-
tice, this will mean a bulldozed or graded track following the ground profile,
with the central crown of the roadway surface being raised by using material
excavated from drainage ditches. Gravel, consisting of locally excavated
murram, will be provided selectively to weak areas. The roads will be further
improved as required, particularly through the installation of culverts and
addition of more murram. In some areas, the construction of short causeways
may be necessary to facilitate crossing of seasonal swamps.
3.32       Roads of this standard do not require sophisticated construction
techniques or structures. The center line will be determined by an experi-
enced Road Superintendent, on the basis of his judgment of the most efficient
alignment and location. It is anitcipated that little fil-L material will
be required and, because of the predominantly flat terrain., all basic work
can be accomplished by bulldozers or motor grader and hand labor. Drainange
will consist of culverts. As the exact location of roads is not yet known,
it is not possible to assess the extent of the work required, nor to deter-
mine precise cost estimates. However, based on limited past experience,
cost estimated of D 2,250 per km should serve as a reasonable basis until
more detailed information becomes available. Maintenance will be carried
out on an annual basis at a cost of D 500 per km.



- 40 -
3.33        The self-contained road construction unit would be headed by
an experienced Road Superintendent under the executive direction of the
Director of Public Works. The annual opertional plan for the unit would
be agreed after consultations with the Director of Agriculture and Regi-
strar of Cooperatives. It is ex;pected that procurement of equipment would
be undertaken in Project Year I and that over the remaining three years
100 km of road would be constructed annually. The unit would comprise
a heavy bulldozer, motor grader, traxcavator, 10 ton roller and be supported
by a low-loader, four lorries, tractor and trailer, water bowzer and mobile
workshop.
3.34        Functional Numeracy.  The 493,000 population of The Gambia has
an adult literacy rate of some 10% only and most literates are concentrated
in the capital and its surrounding urban development. The education system,
while enrolling some 5% of the total population in primary schools makes
relatively little impact in the rural areas since the bulk of the enroll-
ments comes from the populous urban area (94% in Banjul) and falls as low
as 6% in the rural east. Orthodox expansion of the school system to pro-
vide universal primary education in the rural areas would be too expensive
for government to contemplate, as education already absorbs some 12.5% of
all government expenditure.
3.35       There is therefore a clear case to provide some form of func-
tional literacy through informal education to adults or adolescents who
have never been to school or have failed to achieve literacy even if they
did. The government fully recognizes the need and three separate documents,
from the Ministry of Economic Planning, the Department of Education, the
Department of Youth and Sport, together with the FAO/IBRD preparation re-
port and a UNDP project report on the Development of Human Resources, all
propose that functional literacy be developed. The government documents
are, however, in general terms onLy. None outline specific action nor has
any department, as yet, been given specific responsibility to proceed.
3.36        It is therefore difficult at present to feel that there is any
strong goverunent will to proceed with the development of functional li-
teracy and there is certainly no administrative machinery to undertake any
effective action.  Furthermore, the country is peopled by those who speak
several tribal dialects and no common language exists, although Mandinke
is the most used. However, virtually nothing to read exists in Mandinke
so a whole production machinery to produce reading materials would also
have to be established. Quite apart from cost, there would not appear to
be a good case to develop any mass project in functional literacy at this
juncture.
3.37       However, this does not preclude progress in more limited areas
and the above argument about the present value of functional verbal literacy
does not apply to numeracy. There is an urgent and immediate need to de-
velop this among the rural farming community. Most adults are illiterate and
the majority cannot count, weigh or measure. They therefore have no exact
knowledge of what they produce nor its true value. When they deal with
traders they have no means of determining if they are being "short weighted"
when they bring their produce for sale. They have, therefore, strong economic



- 41 -
motives to learn to weigh and measure and count. Furthermore, i:he project
proposes to introduce the widespread use of fertilizers, improved chemicals,
all of which rely on having some knowledge of weight and area. For them, and
also for the minority who can count, an additional complication arises. The
Gambia has decided to go metric. This will certainly add confusion and will
increase the risk of exploitation of the illiterate producer.
3.38       There is thus an immediate need for developing adult (functional)
numeracy among the rural farming population. The problem is where to be-
gin and what organization to use to administer the service. Of the various
possibilities; the schools, community development or agricultural exten-
tions, the latter is the one most closely in touch with the rural farmer.
The schools do not touch him, community development is limited to spasmodic
communal construction of roads and culverts, but agricultural extention
is his real contact with government and education. Moreover, it is geared
to his needs. Functional numeracy relates directly to agricultural pro-
duction and the agricultural extension service exists to promote production.
3.39       The project proposes to upgrade mixed farming centers (in the
project area). The functional numeracy element of the project would therefore
include each up-graded mixed farming center having the services of one addi-
tional agricultural assistance whose duty would be to develop functional
numeracy in his area. This service would be taken to the community, in
their villages and compounds, and the staff would therefore have to be fully
mobile. They would also have to be able to transport simple weighing and
measuring instruments, be trained and have access to effective source material
with periodic help from the center. The experience gained would be progres-
sively evaluated and would provide concrete data on which decisions about
future development could be based. Selective training would be given to 10
agricultural assistants. The machinery for their selection already exists
and their six month special training would include brief (three months) fel-
lowships to visit two African countries for field observations of functional
literacy scheme (e.g. MIalawi, Tanzania). Equipment for each of the 10 trained
agricultural assistants would include an upgraded house located in one of the
larger villages; a motorcycle fitted with special carriers for teaching
equipment; and teaching equipment to include spring balances,, steel yard,
scales, volumetric measures (imperial and metric), tapes, rules, chain
(imperial and metric), diagrams, and flannelgraph. The Extension Aids Unit
(to be sited at the Department of Agriculture's headquarters) would service
all agricultural extension workers including functional numercy assistants
and would provide relevant leaflets, photographs, slides and,other nece-
sary aids besides providing mobile film units to reinforce the program.
3.40       Project Coordinator.  To ensure implementation of project pro-
posals and supply certain common administrative services to al:L Departments
of IANR during project implementation, the project would finance the appoint-
ment of a Project Coordinator, together with administrative support staff.
The Coordinator would be located in MANR (para. 4.04).



- 42 -
3.41       Project Studies.  The project provides for two studies and the
preparation of a further agricultural development project. All would be
carried out by consultants, whose selection would be the responsibility
of the Project Coordinator.
3.42       Present groundnut marketing methods have not changed for many
years and are manifestly inefficient at certain points. It is also necessary
to review present operations with a view to recommending ways of promoting
possible reductions in aflatoxin levels (para 6.10). In general, the study
should determine the policies, procedures and investments required to promote
cheap and efficient marketing of the groundnut crop and would include:
(a) recommendations for improving the system and the costs
involved;
(b) the responsibilities of the various agencies concerned in
putting into effect recommendations made in (a) bove;
(c) the need, if any, of improved storage to reduce the chances
of aflatoxin infection;
(d) the need, if any, for improved transportation to reduce
infection chances; and
(e) the need, if any, for changes in shelling procedures.
3.43       The Jakhaly Swamp offers the best possibilities for increasing
rice production in The Gambia. The Commonwealth Development Corporation,
in the 1950s, developed the area for prodction, but it was subsequently
abandoned when the Corporation withdrew its opertions from the country.
Considerable technical information has obviously been compiled but is not
available within The Gambia. Consultants would review this information and
make firm proposals for the development of the swamp, together with costs.
The area is also renowned for its bird life and this aspect should also
be considered during preparation of the feasibility study.  The proposals
should also cover drainage and alternative cropping patterns.
3.44       The project provides for short-term assistance to the Planning
Unit of MANR for (a) the preparation of a further agriculture development
project, and (b) the organization and procedures for accounting and audit-
ing arrangements (para 5.13). Agreement has been reached with Government
that consultants would be employed with qualifications, experience and terms
of reference acceptable to Government and the Association and that Government
would review with the Association the results of the groundnut marketing
study and of accounting procedures.



- 43 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANGEMENT
A. General
4.01       Lack of cooperation and coordination between departments of
MANR has been a feature in the past. This is in part due to their geo-
graphic separation and partly to the absence of any meaningul develop-
ment program calling for integration of effort. The various disciplines
required to implement the project already exist within the organizational
structure of government and its allied parastatal bodies. Consequently
the project proposes to strengthen these organizations through the pro-
vision of staff and facilities and to utilize ongoing administrative and
financial procedures governing their operation. Such a decision is not
without risk as bureaucratic delays could severely hamper project proposals.
In recognition of this eventuality the project proposes a gradual phasing
of development, and in fact Project Year One envisages no field development
but allows for construction of housing, offices, etc., recruitment and
training of staff and purchase of necessary equipment. Furthermore all
staff within the project area would, to all intents and purposes, be fully
employed on project implementation alone. Finally the project would
ensure better inter-departmental cooperation and coordination by estab-
lishing a Projects Coordinating Committee (para 4.03) and by providing a
Project Coordinator within MANR (para 4.04). Supervision of field staff
would be improved through the introduction of an intermediate level of ad-
ministration which is presently lacking. These Regional Officers would
be responsible for all activities concerned with crop and animal production
in the project area.
4.02       Overall responsibility for project implementatiorL would lie with
the Permanent Secretary, MANR, but execution of project components would be
by participating Departments of MANR and concerned parastatal organizations.
Participating organizations would be the Department of Agriculture (agricul-
tural extension, training, visual aids and functional numeracy), Department of
Animal Health and Production (livestock health and production), Department of
Cooperatives (cooperative development), GPMB (crop marketing and procurement
of farm inputs and equipment), CMB (cattle fattening and marketing), GCDB and
GCU (agricultural credit). The existing and proposed organ-izations of MANR
are shown in Charts 15467-8 and Table 4.01 is an implementation schedule
indicating the phasing of project activities.
Project Coordinating Committee
4.03       The project would be the third major agriculturaL development
activity in The Gambia. At present a cotton development project, financed
by the African Development Bank, is underway in Upper River Division and the
Peoples Republic of China is to continue financing the expansion of irrigated
rice development.  There is now a need to coordinate these and other develop-
ment activities. A Projects Coordinating Committee would be established under
the Chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, MANR, and assurances to this
effect would be sought. Additional to representatives of those organizations



- 44 -
involved in project implementationi, would be members from the Ministries of
Finance and Economic Planning.  Ihe Project Coordinator would act as Secretary
of the Commaittee. This Committee would regularly review and monitor progress,
set guidelines for implementation and ensure proper coordination among organi-
zations involved in development projects.
Project Coordinator
4.04        A Project Coordinator, who would be directly responsible to the
Permanent Secretry,MANR, would be located in MANR and responsible for:
(a) During the first two years of project implementation:
(i)   the preparation of financial estimates and annual
work programs in cooperation with Departmental
heads and chief executives of concerned parastatal
organizations;
(ii)  act on behalf of the Permanent Secretary, MANR, in
initiating project implementation:
after this period the Project Coordinator would be re-
sponsible for coordinating the preparation of annual work
programs and financial estimates.
(b)  Throughout the project period and for the proposed project
only:
(i)   prepare tenders for bulk procurement of materials
and equipment;
(ii)  initiate collection and analysis of appropiate data for
preparation of a further development project;
(iii) initiate and coordinate requests for Technical Assis-
tance; and
(iv)  initiate the recruitment and direct the work of con-
sultants in connection with project-financed studies.
(c) Throughout the project period for all major projects:
(i)   monitor all major development projects and report
progress on a regular basis to the Permanent
Secretary;
(ii) monitor disbursement of project funds;



- 45 -
(iii) prepare claims for reimbursement;
(iv) compile progress reports for aid donors;
(v)   coordinate external visits to development projects;
Qualifications required of the Project Coordinator would be:
Age:            30 - 45 years
Academic:       Preferably Honors degree in Agriculture,
Agricultural Economics or other relevant
discipline.
Experience:    Minimum of five years post-graduate work
experienmce in a developing country, holding
responsible position requiring economic and
administrative ability and related to natural
resources development.
He would be assisted by a Project Officer and supporting administrative and
accounting staff provided under the project. Government has agreed that IDA
would be consulted as to the qualifications, experience and i:erms-of-
reference of the Project Coordinator and Project Officer prior to their
appointment.
4.05       Heads of concerned Departments of MANR would be responsible for
implementation of those project components which affect their departments
and as a consequence it would be necessary to draw up work pLans and imple-
mentation schedules annually and within the framework of project proposals.
The Project Coordinator would assure the timely presentation of these pro-
posals and assurances would be sought that they would be submitted to IDA
for comment and that budgetary allocations to deparments would be made in
amounts sufficient for their execution.
4.06       The successful outcome of the project largely depends on the
timely availability of farming inputs coupled with correct advice to farmers
again timed to coincide with the relevant farming operation. At present
field staff of the agricultural extension service do not operate to any
meaningful work program geared to the needs of the farmer and such extension
program requires to be prepared prior to project implementation. Consequently,
a condition of invitation to negotiate the credit would be that the prepara-
tion of such a work program by MANR for all levels of field staff had begun.
B. Field Organization
4.07       All participating departments of MANR are controlled by a head-
quarters staff located in or near Banjul. The next Senior field repre-
sentaives are to be found at Divisional level only. Furthermore, head-
quarters staff, by virtue of the small size of departments and the country



- 46 -
as a whole, are constantly called upon to attend conferences etc abroad.
Additionally, telephonic communication between field offices and headquarters
is either entirely lacking or at best rudimentary.  Consequently it is pro-
posed to establish an intermediate level of supervision located in the field
and easily accessible to all staff within the project area. A regional
headquarters would be established at Mansa Konko in LRD (see Map 11974), where
land, some housing, workshop and office accommodation already exist and which
is well served by road linkages to all divisions. The Regional Agricultural
Officer would be the field representative of MANR and would supervise and
coordinate the field activities of all departments. Each department of MANR
would have a senior officer at Mansa Konko. The in-service training center
would also be located at regional headquarters. Radio telephones linking
Banjul to Regional and Divisional offices will be provided under the project.
4.08       At Divisional level all departments would be represented and they
would supervise and control District staff. At District level, Agricultural
Assistants, Cooperative Inspectors and Animal Husbandry Assistants located at
Mixed Farming Centers would be responsible for carrying out extension and
credit programs with farmers, supervising the work of Demonstrators at village
level and overseeing crop marketing. Contact with farmers would, wherever
possible, be through the traditional village decision making group, of which
compound heads are members. The practice of village public meetings where
consensus is arrived at offers a vehicle by which agricultural demonstrators
and veterinary officers can function more effectively. The numeracy program
would also provide a useful means for village level staff to become more
involved in village affairs.
4,09       Expanded animal health programs would continue to be managed
from veterinary headquarters as at present, as they require teams of vaccin-
ators to move into a district in order to effectvely cover as many as
possible of the cattle population. Vaccinators are generally village level
staff moved in temporarily from other districts.
4.10       In MANR, there is a newly created position for a Project Officer
who ensures the servicing of field staff and provides the linkage with parastatal
organizations based in the capital. This officer would assist the Project
Coordinator (para 4.04).   Department of Cooperation staff are supervised at
Divisional level by Assistant Registrars of Cooperatives who have direct acess
to their Registrar. Technical guidance of veterinary field staff is provided
by the Veterinary Office located at Mansa Konko, who is also responsible for
animal health and the supervision of field clinics.
4.11       In-Service Training.  The residential training center, to be
provided under the project and located at Mansa Konko, would form the focal
point of all in-service training for agricultural and animal husbandry
field staff. The center, under the day-to-day control of an agricultural
assistant and directly responsible to the Senior Regional officer, would
provide short courses relevant to the needs of the project. Training
programs would be drawn up by the Agricultural Education Office but the
majority of teachers would come from Divisional and District level staff.



- 47 -
4.12       Specialized Veterinary Training would continue to be given at
the Abuko headquarters where existing facilities are to be improved under
the project.
4.13       The training needs of cooperative staff would be met at the
training center to be developed under the project. A Training Officer,
already in existence, would be responsible for training programs.
4.14       All training programs would be re-inforced by material produced
by the Visual Aids Center, which would be under the control oiF the Agricul-
tural Education Officer.
4.15       Farmer Training.  Farmer training, again coordinated by the
Agricultural Education Office, would be given at Mixed Farming Centers
and in villages and carried out by District and Divisional Staff. Pro-
grams would be directed to the needs of the project and supported by
material produced by the Visual Aids Center and mobile cinema vans, one
of which is to be located at each Divisional headquarters.
4.16       With the introduction of an enhanced credit program comes a
greater need for the systematic and continuous training of cooperative
society office bearers and members. The more specialized training of office
bearers would be given at the training center by the Cooperative Education
Office and the more generalized needs of members met by village level train-
ing given by a Divisional Cooperative Education Officer. Course material
and curricula would be provided by the Cooperative Education Officer located
at headquarters.
4.17       Th numeracy program would be carried out under the direction of
the Agricultural Education Officer by Agricultural Assistants appointed to
each of the ten MFCs upgraded under the project. The program would be con-
tinually monitored in order to determine its effectivenss.
4.18       Credit.  The provision of credit would follow already established
procedures laid down by Department of Cooperatives and GCDB. Loans would
generally be made to the compound head, who would be responsible for repay-
ment, these being deducted by the cooperative society from receipts for sale
of produce.  With increased levels of staffing envisaged under the project,
day-to-day supervision of cooperative societies would be greatly increased
as there will be one cooperative inspector appointed to each society. Audit
staff would also be increased to permit more frequent checking of accounts.
4.19       Input Supply.  Assessment of input requirements would be based
upon estimates of field staff at District level, checked and consolidated
by Regional staff. Upon amalgamation of requirements, GPMB would assume
responsibility for importation and distribution to cooperative society stores
or stores located at MFCs. Regional cooperative staff would be responsible
for ensuring timely delivery to farmers.



- 48 -
4.20       Marketing.  Existing procedures would continue for the marketing
of produce whereby primary society would act as the licensed buying agent
for GPMB.  This procedure has been satisfactory in the past and the construc-
tion of feeder roads, more permanent markets and storage depots will improve
extraction rates.
4.21       Crop Extraction Roads.  The self-contained road construction unit
would be controlled by an experienced Road Superintendent who would be
responsible to the Director of Public Works for the layout, construction
and improvement of crop extraction roads developed under the project. The
annual work program for the unit would be agreed to by the Directors of
Public works and Agriculture and the Registrar of Coopertives and assurances
to this effect have been obtained from Government. Heavy repairs of equipment
and plant would be carried out at PWD workshops in Banjul.
4.22       Seed Production.  Crop seed production would be under the day-to-
day direction of the Senior Seeds Officer, who would be a qualified agrono-
mist and a member of the Department of Agriculture and responsible to its
Director. He would be appointed under bilateral technical assistance ar-
rangements but would train local counterparts. *A seed analyst would also
be made available through technical assistance for a six-month period to
train local staff required to operate the seed testing laboratory.
4.23       Crop Research.  Two qualified research agronomists (again made
available through technical assistance) would carry out research on dry-
land and irrigated crops. They would be responsible to the officer in
charge of the Sapu Research Station.
4.24       Studies.  Project Coordinator would be responsible for initiating
the consultant studies associated with improved groundnut marketing and an
irrigation feasibility study for the Jakhaly Swamp and would also assum.e
prime responsibility for engaging the necessary consultants to assist in
preparing a further agricultural development project.
4.25       Project Monitoring.  The Project Coordinator would be responsible
for monitoring project progress and would report quarterly to the Permanent
Secretary MANR, the Projects Coordinaing Committee and the Association.
The proposed reporting format is in the Project File. On the establishment of
the Planning Unit within MANR, it woud assume responsibility for evaluating
the benefits realized by project farmers.



- 49 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENITS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Cost estimates are based on May 1976 prices and allow for the
transport of all inputs and equipment to the project area. Cost estimates
for vehicles include an allowance of 33% for spare parts. E'hysical contin-
gencies of 5% are provided on the base cost of buildings and. civil works;
farm inputs; and all equipment except vehicles. Price contingencies have
been calculated by compounding the expected rate of inflation in prior
years and one half the rate of price increase in the current year. Ex-
pected inflation rates are in Table 12..
Table 12
Expected Price Increases
Py     PY 2    PY 3    PY 4
Buildings and Civil Works            12.0     12.0    10.0       7.5
Vehicles and Equipment                7.5      7.5      5.0      5.0
Staff and other Local Costs          10       10       10        7.5
5.02      Project costs exclude, and would be exempt from, duties and taxes
on imports, but include indirect taxes on some operating costs which cannot
be determined precisely but are not significant. Total project costs amount
to D 22.2 million (US$11.7 million) of which foreign expenditures would be
D 13.3 million (US$6.9 million) or 60%. Physical and price contingencies
account for D 3.2 million (US$1.7 million) or 17% base cost. Costs are in
Table 5.01 and are summarized in Table 13 below; further details
are in the Project File.



TABLE 13
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of Base
Local           Foreign            Total             Local           Foreign            Total           Cost
(DO'OO)                                           (US$ '000)
1.  Agricultural Extension and Training             1,042              1,383            2.425             550_              727              1,277             13
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                    650.0             974.7          1,624.7            342.1             513.0             855.1
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                        20.6             185.8            206.4             10.8              97.8              108.6
(c)  Fellowship Awards                              1.0              13.0              14.0             0.5               6.8                7.4
(d)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                   58.8               -               58.8             30.9               -                 30.9
(e)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies            311.9             209.3            521.2            165.2             110.2             275.4
2.  Livestock Development                           11495 -           1,493             2,988              787               786             1.573             16
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                    396.7             507.6             904.^           208.8             267.2              475.9
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                       138.8             598.5            737.3             73.0             315.0              388.1
(c)  Steer Fattening Scheme Credit                 75.0               -                75.0            39.5               -                 39.5
(d)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                  556.1               -              556.1            292.7               -                292.7
(e)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies            328.8             294.9            623.7            173.0             155.2             328.2
(f)  Fell. ow-iships                                .92.G                             92.0               -               48.0               48.0
3.  Cooperative Development                         1,597             1,596             3,193              840               R40             1,680             17
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                    847.5           1,196.1          2,043.6            446.0             629.5           1,075.6
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                        24.6             221.7            246.3             12.9             116.7              129.6
(c)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                  446.0               -              446.0            234.7               -                234.7
(d)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies            278.6             178.0            456.6            146.7              93.7              240.3
4.  Agricultural Inputs and Equipment                1,587            2,903             4.490              835            1.522              2,363             24
(Revolving Credit Fund)
(a)  Seasonal Inputs                              145.8           1,312.3          1,458.1             76.8             691.2              76h.0
(b)  Oxen                                       1,160.6               -            1,160.6            610.8               -               610.8
(c)  Ox Implements                                280.8           1,591.3          1,872.1            147.8             837.5              985.3
5.  Crop Extraction Roads                              526              990             1,516              277              521                798              8
(a)  Plant and Equipment                           79.5             715.5            795.0             41.8             376.6            418.4
(b)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies            446.6             274.0            720.6            235.1             144.2            379.3
6.  Project Management Unit                            558              732             1,290              260              419               679               7
(a)  Buildings                                    121.5             182.1            303.6             64.0              95.8            159.8
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                        17               106              123                9 -              56               65
(c)  Incremental Staff Cost.3 (E)                  40.0             360.0            400.0             21.0             189.5            210.5
Cd)  OPerations  Maintenance, Supplies            319               84               403              168               44               212
(ae  TOcrementaf Staff Costs (L)                   61..0             -                61.0             32                 -                32
7.  Seeds Production                                  686             1,454             2,140             361               765              1.126             11
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                    219.2            413.6             632.8            115.3             217.7            333.0
(b)  Plant and Equipment                           20.8             187.4            208.2             11.0              98.6             109.6
(c)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                  127.4               -              127.4             67.0               -               67.1
(d)  Incremental Staff Costs (E)                  190.0             760.0            950.0            100.0            400.0             500.0
(e)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies            128.2              92.6            220.8             67.5              48.7            116.2
8.  Adult Numeracv Program                             156               30               136               82               16                98               1
(a)  Buildings                                      3.0               2.0               5.0             1.6               1.0               2.6
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                         3.8              18.1             21.9              2.0               9.5              11.5
(c)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies            149.3              10.2            159.5             78.5               5.4              83.9
9.  Studies and Consultancies                           77               695              772              41               365               406              3'
Total Base Cost                                  7,724          11,276             19,000           4,033            5,967             10,000            100
10.  Contingencies                                   1,311            1.919             3.,230             690:.          1,0ln... 1.
(a)  Physical Contingencies                      235               361               596             124               190                314
(b)  Price Contingencies                        1.,075           1,558            2,633              566               820             1,3-6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         9,035           13J195            .223Q      _4-                      6977 L17n
PERCENT OF TOTAL COST                         40               60               100              40                60               100
L: Local Staff
E: Expatriate Staff



- 51 -
B. Financial Arrangements
Financing
5.03      The project would be financed by the proposed IDA credit; grants
from the U.K. Overseas Development Ministry (ODM); a credit Erom the Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA); and contrilbutions from
participating farmers. The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 14
below.
5.04      The IDA credit of US$ 4.1 million would be made to the Government
of The Gambia and would finance 35% of total project costs. The British
Government, through ODM, would make a grant of h 1.5 million (US$3.0 million)
to Government as well as a special technical assistance grant amounting to
b 0.5 million (US$1.1 million): these grants would finance 35% of total
project costs. The BADEA credit of US$3.3 million equivalent would bear
interest at 2% and would be repayable over 20 years after a 5-year grace
period. It would finance 28% of total project costs. Both British and
BADEA financing operations would be in parallel with that of IDA. External
financing would together account for all project costs excepit farmers' con-
tributions which amount to less than 2% of total project costs.   A condi-
tion of credit effectiveness would be that Government had concluded a sat-
isfactory financing agreement with the U.K. and BADEA.



-52-                                                              TABLE 14
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
.(US$ '000)
Farmers               IDA                U. K.                BADEA              TOTAL
1.  Agricultural Extension and Training                                                                                                                      1,277
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                                                                                   855
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                                                                   109
(c)  Fellowship Awards                                                                          7
(d)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                                                                                                       31
(e)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies                                                                                                275
2.  Livestock Development                                                                                                                                    1,573
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                                                                                   476
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                                                                                                           388
(c)  Steer Fattening Scheme Credit                                                                                                     40
(d)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                                                                                                      293
(    Operations, Maintenance, Supplies                                                                                                328
Fellowship                                                                                                                        48
3.  Cooperative Development                                                                                                                                  1 6LO
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                                                                                 1,075
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                                                                                                           130
(c)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                                                                                                      235
(d)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies                                                                                                240
4. Agricultural Inputs and Equipment
(Revolving Credit Fund)
(a)  Seasonal Inputs                                                                          768
(b)  Oxen                                                                                    610
(c)  Ox Implements                                                       180                 805
5.  Crop Extraction Roads                                                                                                                                      798
(a)  Plant and Equipment                                                                     418
(b)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies                                                                                                380
6.  Project Managem.ent Unit                                                                                                                                   679
(a)  Buildings                                                                                                   160
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                                                                   65
(c)  Incremental Staff Costs (E)                                                                                 210
Operations, Maintenance, Sptpplies                                                      2 2
Incremental Staff Costs (L                                                               32
7.  Seeds Production                                                                                                                                         1,126
(a)  Buildings and Civil Works                                                                                   333
(b)  Plant and Equipment                                                                      110
(c)  Incremental Staff Costs (L)                                                                                                       67
(d)  Incremental Staff Costs (E)                                                                                 500
(e)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies                                                                                                116
8.  Adult Numneract  Program                                                                                                                                    98
(a)  Buildings                                                                                                     3
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment                                                                    11
(c)  Operations, Maintenance, Supplies                                                                                               84
9.  Studies and Consultancies                                                                     406                                                          406
10.  Contingencies                                                              -                  547                528                 625                1.700
11.  TOTAL                                                                     180               4,100               4,140              3,280               11.700
PERCENT                                                                     2                  35                 35                  28                   100



- 53 -
J.05      The finance required for the project would be deployed as
follows:
a.   the IDA credit US$4.1 million would be passed on:
i.   to tANR - US$1.0 million (Department of
Agriculture - US$0.3 million; Project
Coordinator's Office US$0.7 million);
ii.   to the Gambia Cooperative Union for on-
lending to primary societies (para 3.17)
through the rediscount facilities of the
Central Bank, US$2.2 million;
iii.   to PWD, US$0.4 million;
iv.   the remainder, US$0.5 million, would be
unallocated.
b.   the British Government grants (US$4.1 million)
and the BADEA credit (US$3.3 million) would be
passed on to H ANR (US$5.8 million) and the Public
Works Department (US$0.4 million); the remainder,
US$1.2 million, would be unallocated; and
c.   farmers' contribution (US$0.2 million) would be
in the form of down payments on work-oxen and
equipment.
The budget procedures of Government begin with Ministerial estimates which
are reviewed and consolidated by the M1inistry of Finance. After approval by
the legislative body, expenditures are controlled through a voucher system.
Supplementary appropriations can be authorized by the President and subse-
quently submitted to Parliament for approval. These procedures are satis-
factory. The Project Coordinator, see para 4.04, would be responsible for
preparing, and in later years for coordinating the preparation of, annual
budgets for the project, and the Permanent Secretary of MANRt for ensuring
that such budgets received appropriate consideration in the Ministry of
Finance. Any part of the IDA credit not disbursed after the completion of
the project would be cancelled.
5.06      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IDA would have
the opportunity to comment on the draft annual project budgets in a timely
manner.



- 54 -
Credit Arrangements
5.07      Short-term credit for seasonal inputs and medium term credit for
oxen and ox-equipment would be made available to participating farmers
through the cooperative movement. Funds for the purchase of all inputs
and equipment in PY2 would be passed on to GCU at 3% through the Central
Bank's rediscount facilities.  GCU would in turn relend this money to pri-
mary societies at 6%.
5.08      Primary societies would retail credit to compound heads at 11%
for both seasonal and medium-term credit. Repayment would be, for seasonal
credit, in full in the next groundnut marketing period and, for medium-term
loans-, in three equal installments in the marketing periods following the
delivery of oxen and equipment to farmers.
5.09      A revolving credit fund would be established by GCU with part of
the IDA credit. All credit transactions would be accounted for on the basis
of the official price schedules. GPMB would be responsible for imports and
would directly charge PSF with the cost of the fertilizer subsidy which is
expected to amount to D380,000 (US$200,000) by 1980. Assurances have been
obtained that GPMB would provide the cost of such subsidies. This arrange-
ment would permit a clear separation of the issue of credit distribution and
repayment from that of the cost of subsidies. GCU would be responsible for
the distribution of credit (in the form of these inputs and equipment) to,
and eventual repayment by, primary societies (para 3.20).
Procurement
5.10      Procurement of IDA-financed goods and services would follow
existing IDA guidelines. Farm inputs and farm equipment, expected to cost
US$1.6 million, would be procured through international competitive bidding.
Vehicles and equipment purchases, totalling US$0.7 million in value, would
be bulked whenever possible and the procurement of orders in excess of
US$50,000 would be through international competitive bidding. Contracts
below US$50,000 would be let on the basis of local competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Work oxen, estimated to cost US$611,000 would be purchased by MANR through the
agency of either licensed cattle buyers or LMB; as such purchases would need
to be carefully controlled and monitored a special accounting and recording
system would be established for such purchases by the accounting specialist,
see para 5.13. Consultant services, costing about US$0.4 million, would be
engaged through the procedures set out in IDA guidelines. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the procedures outlined above would be followed.



- 55 -
5.11      Procurement of items financed by the British Governmaent grant
(building construction and civil works) and the BADEA credit (equipment
and vehicles) would be carried out under the respective regulations and
arrangements of these two agencies. It is not expected that t:hese arrange-
ment will result in higher costs than if all procurement were made under
IDA procedures.
Disbursement
5.12      Disbursements under the IDA credit would be on the basis of
appropriate import documents or other records of purchases or expendi-
tures certified, among others, by the Project Coordinator, andl would be
for:
i.   100% of the c.i.f. value of all vehicles, plant, farm in-
puts and equipment (except those required by the Depart-
ments of Animal Health and Production, and Cooperation).
If purchased locally, disbursements would cover 90% of
the invoice amount;
ii.   100% of the costs of training fellowships and consultancies;
iii.   90% of the cost of work oxen;
iv.   100% of the cost of local staff salaries and operations
and maintenance of the Project Coordinator's Office.
Maintenance of public assets has been poor in the past and under the project
special procedures to ensure the budgeting and programming of maintenance
expenditures would be introduced. These would be that Government would,
in addition to providing budgetary support for the costs of operation and
maintenance relating to project financed items, cause MANR to-prepare de-
tailed and costed maintenance schedules to support these budget requests.
Assurances have been obtained that such schedules will be submitted to
IDA each year. An estimated schedule of disbursements is at Table 5.02.
Accounts and Audit Arrangements
5.13      The accounts and internal audit unit of MANR would be responsible
for keeping detailed accounts for all project activities. Project accounts
would be consolidated by the Project Coordinator and submitted to the Asso-
ciation no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year following
audit by the Auditor General or an auditing firm employed by him and satis-
factory to IDA. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that these
procedures would be followed.
5.14      While the accounting and audit procedures of RANR and the Auditor
General are basically sound, there are frequently delays in the finalization
of accounts and audit reports that reduce their value as control and monitor-
ing tools. For example the Auditor General's report on the accounts of the



- 56 -
project financed under Credit 333-GAM has been produced 18 months later
than the date of finalizing the accounts. In view of this, and since
the project would involve a number of individual accounts maintained in
a number of departments, consultant's services (9 man months) would be
employed:
a.   at the start of the project (i) to review present
staffing and procedures of the accounts and audit
unit within MANR and to recommend any strengthening
or modification of staffing and procedures, and
(ii) to specify the books, records and accounts
needed to properly record project expenditures
and direct revenues (6-8 man months); and
b.   during the preparation of the first annual accounts
of the project, to review the systems and recommend
any further changes that might be required in terms
of staffing, procedures, accounts and records (1-3
man months).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would appoint
consultants acceptable to, and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
for the above purpose and that such of the consultants recommendations
that are mutually acceptable to the Government and IDA would be implemented
promptly.
5.15      The accounts of individual cooperative societies participating in
the project would be audited by MANR's Cooperative Department. The accounts
of GCU will be audited by the Auditor General or an auditing firm employed by
him and satisfactory to the Association. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that these accounts would be audited within four months of the close
of the fiscal year.



- 57 -
VI. CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION TECHNIQUE;
A. Crops Background
6.01      The major crops grown in the project area and which would be
subject to project actions are groundnuts, rice and sorghum. Groundnuts
dominate cash crop production and are grown on about half of the cultivated
area. Traditionally sorghum and millet were the main food crops, but in
recent years rice has become increasingly important in both rural and urban
areas.
6.02      Cultivation is usually done by hand and labor consl:raints occur
at times of peak activity, i.e. planting and weeding of all crops and rice
transplanting. Use of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs is very
limited. Planting on the contour is rare, plant populations are generally
very low and as a consequence sheet erosion occurs on sloping lands.
6.03      Although the need for rotating crops, including a Eallow period,
is recognized, the practice of successive cropping of groundnuts leading
to soil deterioration and excessive diseases and pest attack is common.
6.04      Under the project practices and techniques designed to increase
the generally low yields of the major crops would be introduced. These
introductions would be based on results of research work in Gambia and else-
where and of packages proven on a pilot basis by the Department of Agricul-
ture.
B. Crop Recommendations
Groundnuts
6.05      For all crops, timeliness of field operations, particularly plant-
ing and weeding; use of seed of higher yielding varieties, seed dressing, and
fertilizer; correct spacing and plant densities; and, where applicable, plant-
ing on the contour and the introduction of oxen and ox-drawn equipment would
be stressed.  A basic rotation of groundnuts-cereals-groundnuts-fallow would
be recommended.
6.06      Varieties.  The recommended oilseed variety would be S28-206, which
has a growing period of 120 days and which is very well adapted to the ecolog-
ical conditions of The Gambia. The confectionary variety would be Philippine
Pink, a small-kernelled nut with a growing period of 90 days. Oilseed ground-
nuts would be grown in compound Models I and II and confectionary groundnuts
in Model III. Both these varieties have a high yield potential and are capable
of yielding over 1,500 kg/ha under traditional farming conditions.



- 58 -
6.07      Soil Preparation and Fertilization.  Land preparation would con-
sist of ploughing or cross cultivation before the start of the rainy sea-
son#  150 kg/ha of single superphosphate would be applied before planting
or at the time of the first weeding.
6.08      Seed Preparation and Planting.  Seeds would be shelled and sorted
by hand, and treated with a seed dressing at the rate of 200 g per 100 kg of
seed. The seed would be planted within three days following the first substan-
tial rain (at least 25 mm), 3 to 5 cm deep, in rows 66 cm apart and 15 cm
within the row, at a rate of 100 kg/ha giving a theoretical population of
99,000 plants per ha. Where animal-drawn implements are used the seed would
be planted with the ox-drawn seeder equipped with discs of 24 notches.
6.09      Weeding and Harvesting.  The first interrow cultivation would be
made about 7 to 10 days after planting, the second some 15 days later.
Further weedings would be aceording to need. The oilseed and confectionary
groundnuts would be lifted about 120 and 90 days respectively after planting
either by hand or with the ox-drawn 350 mm wide groundnut lifter and the plante
turned upside down to dry. The dry crop (after 4-5 days) would be stacked in
the field to be stripped by hand in November-December.
6.10      Pests and Diseases.  Pre-harvest pests of groundnuts have not been
a serious probem in recent years but post-harvest fungal infestation is a
matter for concern. Toxic substances caused by certain stra\nsg of Aspergillue
flavus (commonly known as aflatoxin) are poisonous to domestic Animals and
are suspected to have carcinogenic properties in humans. Laboratory analyses
of groundnut cakes from African countries have revealed levels  ovti? 0.4 ppm
quite frequently and in some cases even over 1 ppm. In consequence, importing
countries have recently imposed conditions setting the upper limits of the
level of toxicity. The permissible aflatoxin content of the EEC countries is
now:
Table 15
Max. aflatoxin 31.
Produce                                   content (in ppm)
Straight and complete feeding stuffs
for cattle, calves and lambs                                0.05
Complementary feeding stuffs for
dairy cattle, pigs and poultry                              0.02
Other complementary feeding stuffs                            0.01
in the light of these stringent requirements harvesting and post-harvest han-
dling, (drying, stripping, transport, storage, shelling) will have to be
better controlled and improved to minimize Aspergillus infestation. Damage
of stored unshelled nuts is also common and is caused by the groundnut seed
bettle (Caryedon serratus). A single application of insecticide in seed
stores and at buying points will be required as a compulsory measure.



- 59 -
Rice
6.11      Two types of rice wih differing cultivation requirements would
be grown under the project. About one-third would be upland rice and two
third!. swamp rice.
6.12      Upland Rice Varieties.  Two varieties would be recommended:
Soavina, a fairly tall variety of the Indian type, with long, rust colored
grains, maturing in 95-100 day, and a Taiwanese variety, Taichung Native 2,
wich has about the same maturation period. Native 2 is grown to a lesser
extent than Soavina but is giving very good results in some areas.
6.13      Soil Preparation and Fertilization.  Land preparation would be
done before or at the onset of the rains and would include harrowing and
levelling. Wherever possible the land would be bunded to maKimize water
conservation. A 26:14:0 fertilizer compound at the rate of 200 kg/ha would
be applied half at planting time and half at the time of the last weeding.
6.14      Seed Preparation and Planting.  Seed would be dressed and would be
planted at the rate of 90 kg/ha in continuous rows with an interrow spacing of
40 cm. Planting would commence immediately after the start of the rains and
would have to be completed by the end of the first week of July.
6.15      Weeding and Harvesting.  The first and most important weeding would
take place 7-10 days after planting and would be followed by a second of third
weeding if necessary. Weeding would stop about 40 days after planting to pre-
vent damage to the root system. Bird scaring would be done from about a week
after flowering up to harvest. Harvesting would be carried DUt by hand and
would start about 100 days after planting.
6.16      Pests and Diseases.  Blast (Pyricularia oryzae) is the most preva-
lent and serious fungal disease. Although blast is widespread, mainly in
wet seasons, it is currently not considered serious. Insect attack, partic-
ularly army worm and stemborer, may be a threat in some seasons. Routine
spraying would not be recommended but insecticidal treatments would be applied
in the case of specific heavy attacks.
6.17      Swamp Rice Varieties.  From the limited work done so far the best
variety for saline conditions is Phar-Com-En. It is a photosensitive variety
growing well in the wet season. It grows fairly tall, over 120 cm, and ad-
justs quite well to the unpredictable and uncontrollable water levels in the
swamps.



- 60 -
6.18      Soil Preparation and Fertilization.  Most project swamp rice would
be grown in saline affected areas along the Gambia river. These swamps re-
quire a preliminary leaching out of salts before planting. This leaching
usually is completed some time between mid-August and mid-September, when
transplanting would take place. As the swamps are relatively fertile and
becuase of the difficulty of water control, fertilizer would not be recom-
mended.
6.19      Nursery Beds and Transplanting.  The nursery beds would be estab-
lished about 2hree to four weeks prior to transplanting at a seed rate of
about 100 g/m and the seedlings would be planted at a spacing of 15 x 15 cm.
The overall seed rate per ha would be about 60 kg.
6.20      Weeding and Harvesting.  Although many weeds will be controlled by
the rising water level, one or two weedings, particularly for the control of
sedges, amy be required. Bird scaring may be necessary. Maturity of the crop
may be expected after about 120 days from transplanting and harvesting would
take place from the end of December onwards.
Sorghum
6.21      Variety.  The variety used in the project area would be Naga White.
It grows about 2 m tall, matures in 125 days, is tolerant to Striga spp., has
grains with a white pericarp and gives a white sweet flour much liked by the
people in the rural areas. Although it has not yet been officially recom-
mended in the Gambia it has done well in screening tests and has been success-
fully used in 1975 by the Department of Agriculture in a small pilot scheme
in LRD.
6.22      Soil Preparation and Fertilization.  The soil would be ploughed
and cultivated before or at the onset of rains. Sorghum would not be directly
fertilized but would benefit from rotating with groundnuts and from the re-
sidual effect of fertilizer applied to groundnuts.
6.23      Seed Preparation and Planting.  Seed would be dressed and sown at a
rate of 12 kg/ha at a spacing of 90 cm between rows and 36 cm within the row.
At thinning two plants would be left per station, giving a theoretical popula-
tion of 72,000 plants/ha.
6.24      Weeding and Harvesting.  An intensive first weeding followed by one
lighter weeding would normally ensure a weed free crop. In stands with heavy
Striga infestation hand weeding of this parasitic weed would be recommended.
The sorghum seedheads would be harvested at full maturity by hand.
6.25      Pests and Diseases are numerous but yields are seldom seriously
reduced except in very localized areas. No routine crop rrotection is ex-
pected to be necessary.



- 61 -
C. Impact on Yields and Production
6.26      Present yields of the crops considered for improved production under
the project are based on estimates of the National Sample Survey of Agriculture
1973-74 and on discussions with the Deparment of Agriculture. As a result of
the improved production techniques to be introduced, it is estimated that over
a five year period of project participation the average project farmer would
increase his yields as follows:
Table 16
1/
Crops                             PY I      PY 2       PY 3      PY 4      PY 5
Groundnuts oilseed (in-shell)    900       1,200      1,300      1,400    1,500
Groundnuts confectionary           800     1,100      1,200      1,300    1,400
(in-shell)
Rice upland (paddy)                800     1,200      1,200      1,300    1,300
Rice swamp (paddy)               1,000     1,200      1,200      1,400    1,400
Sorghum (threshed grain)           500       800        800       900    1,000
6.27      The improvements in yields projected are conservative.  They repre-
sent only about 40-60% of those achieved on research plots, which, for oilseed
groundnuts range from 2,400-2,600 kglha 2/, for upland rice in the region of
2,000 kg/ha 3/, for swamp rice 2,000 kg/ha 3/, and for sorghum Naga White
2,500 kg/ha 2/.  The feasibility of achieving these yield levels estimated for
groundnuts is confirmed by the results of a groundnut package program carried
out in 81 compounds in Lower River and North Bank Divisions. The mean yield
from compounds in this program was between 1,600-1,700 kg/ba.
6.28      Production results from the project will be a consequence of the
rate at which farmers enter the project and of the size and type of their
farms. In para 2.02 the three basic farm types (models) of the project area
are described. In calculating production generated by the project the
assumptions are that a total of 500 farming compounds will join the project
in PY 2; 900 compounds in PY 3 and 800 in PY 4. In the following table incre-
mental production generated as a direct consequence of project investments is
showni. The tabLe also shows estimated total production by project partici-
pants over the same period.
1/   Present yields.
2/   Anntial Report, Yundum Res. Station 1971-72; 1972-73.
3/   Personal communication from Rice Research Agronomist, Sapu, 1975.



- 62 -
Table 17
Production in t
a)   Incremental Production
PY I   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4   PY 5    PY 6    PY 7-10
Groundnuts oilseed      -    1,079  3,821  6,926   8,479   9,523   10,033
Groundnuts              -        90    176    291       364     407       426
confectionary
Rice upland             -       278    881  1,527   1,771   1,910    1,910
Rice swamp              -       427  1,436  2,744   3,356   4,004    4,004
Sorghum                 -        94    430    769       993   1,085    1,156
b)   Total Production
Groundnuts oilseed      -    2,786  9,218 15,446  17,000  18,042   18,554
Groundnuts              -       350    597    873       964     989    1,008
confectionary
Rice upland             -       652  1,972  3,230   3,587   3,614    3,614
Rice swamp              -    1,644  5,035  8,386   9,169   9,272    9,272
Sorghum                 -       165    574  1,068   1,356   1,384    1,455
Further details of estimates of hectarage of crops, yields and production
subject to project actions broken down for three compound farming models are
presented in Table 6.01.
D. Present Position of the Livestock Industry
6.29      The cattle population of The Gambia is currently estimated to be
about 280,000 head. Statistical information is lacking but national annual
beef production is thought to be about 3,000 tons cold dressed weight. The
most serious disease (rinderpest) is now well controlled but other signi-
ficant diseases are controlled only when outbreaks are notified. The Depart-
ment of Animal Health and Production is in charge of animal health and, in
1974, became responsible for animal production. The Departments' activities
are largely focused on disease control and the extension service is small
and so far few improvements in animal husbandry techniques have been intro-
duced. Effectiveness of both veterinary and extension staff is limited by lack
of transport, equipment, drugs, medicines and vaccines and lack of systematic
staff training.



- 63 -
E.   Improvements in Livestock Production
6.30      The project would provide vaccines and equipment in order to up-
grade and expand existing country-wide animal health programs. The number
of vaccinations against contagious bovine pleuropneumonia would increase some
60,000 at present to 140,000 by Project Year 4. Vaccinations would also be
intensified to control anthrax, blackquarter and other diseases if and when
necessary. Systematic treatment of calves against roundworms would be grad-
uallv introduced and farmers introduced to the use of mineral licks for their
stock. Extension staff would concentrate on encouraging better care of claves
and lactating cows through techniques including the introduction of supplemen-
tary feeding particularly at weaning.
6.31      As a consequence of project activities the national herd is fore-
cast to change as shown in Table 18. The principal changes that are esti-
mated to take place as a consequence of the project are that the number of
bulls and breeding cows would slightly decrease and the numbers of calves,
heifers, steers and oxen would increase substantially. These changes would
occur through diminished mortality levels in all classes of stock and heifer
claving rates that is themselves would be a result of better health care
and nutrition. The reduction in breeding stock numbers would occur because,
with higher fertility and survival rates, fewer breeding stoc}; would be
needed to produce followers.



- 64 -
Table 18
Herd Projection in '000 Head
(w.p. = with project, wo. p = without project)
End of Year
1      2       3       4      5       6    7-10
Bulls                    w.p.    4.6    4.8    4.9    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
wo.p.   4.8    4.9    5.0    5.1    5.1    5.2    5.2
Breeding cows            w.p.  119.0  122.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0
wo.p. 119.5  123.1  125.5  127.8  128.5  128.9  129.3
Calves 0-1 year          w.p.   50.1   54.6   59.3   64.4   68.0   68.0   68.0
wo.p.  48.7   49.4   50.1   50.2   50.4   50.7   50.8
Heifers 2-3 years        w.p.   19.6   20.7   22.1   24.3   26.8   29.3   31.0
wo.p.  19.6   20.2   20.4   20.6   20.4   20.5   20.3
Steers 3-4 years         W.p.    9.8   10.7   12.9   13.7   15.5   18.2   19.4
wo.p.   8.5    8.9    9.0    9.0    9.0    8.8    9.0
Oxen                     w.p.   21.5   23.9   26.7   29.9   33.5   33.5   33.5
wo.p.  20.7   21.9   23.1   24.3   25.5   26.7   29.1
:'otal No. of Animals   w.p.  289.8  305.3  324.4  341.9  359.6  369.9  374.5
wo.p. 286.0  293.9  299.7  303.9  306.3  308.2  312.0



- 65 -
6.32       Table 19 gives estimated mortality figures for the with and with-
out project situations. It is estimated that in a without project situation
mortality rates in all categories of animals would be much higher. It is
believed that this would result from the progressive overstocking that would
occur. The stocking rate is already very high in The Gambia, being 1 head
per 3 ha of land. Under the project, better use of all available feedstuffs
would be promoted including a substantial increment in production of feed in
the form of crop residues generated by the project's cropping programme.
Table 19
Mortality per'000 Head
(w.p. = with project, wo.p. = without project)
End of Year
1      2       3      4       5       6    7-10
Bulls                   w.p    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
wo.p   0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3
Breeding cows           w.p.   4.1    2.8    2.9    2.9    3.0    3.0    3.1
wo.p   4.1    4.2    5.7    5.8    7.4    7.4    7.6
Calves                  w.p   19.5   19.2   18.8   18.1   17.0   17.0   17.0
wo.p  20.9   21.2   22.5   22.6   23.7   23.9   24.0
Heifers 2-3 years       w.p    0.6    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6
wo.p   0.6    0.6    0.8    0.9    1.1    1.1    1.2
Steers 3-4 years        w.p    0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    o.4    0.4    0.5
wo.p   0.4    0.4    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.7
Oxen                    w.p    0.8    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9    1.0    1.0
wo.p   0.8    0.9    1.2    1.3    1.7    1.7    1.9
6.33       In addition to expected increases in stock numbers, the extrac-
tion rate is expected to also increase from 9.1% to 11% by project year 5 and
to 15% by project year 9.  This expected development is shown in Table 20.



- 66 -
Table 20
Calving, Mortality and Extraction Rates in %
End of Year
1      2       3      4       5      6    7-10
Calving rate           w.p    60       62     64      66      68     68      68
wo.p   60      59     59      58      58     58      58
Calf Mortality Rate   w.p    28        26     24      22      20     20      20
wo.p   30      30      31     31      32     32      32
Calf 1-2 years         w.p    11       10      9       8       7      7       7
wo.p   12      13      13     14      14     15      15
Extraction Rate        w.p      9.2   10.1    9.8   11.3   11.6   13.4   25.3
wo.p   10.1   10.0   10.0    9.8    9.6    9.5    9.4
6.34      The increment in domestic beef production resulting from these
developments is shown in Table 21.
Table 21
Total Meat Production in Liveweight lb'000
End of Year
1      2       3      4       5      6    7-10
Total 'Meat             w.p  13,021 15,255 15,604 17,745 18,585 22,096 24,300
Production           wo.p 14.237 14,563 14,921 15,057 15,030 15,001 14,400
Increment                               692    683  2,688  3,555  7,095  9,900
6.35      During the project period particular attention would be paid to
better use of agricultural by-products such as groundnut hay, rice straw and
stovers. To facilitate this and improve access to existing natural fodder and
water resources, the project would include the demarcation of cattle routes
through densely cultivated areas and development of water supplies in areas
whlich presently lack the means for watering cattle in the dry season.  Addi-
tionally the project would introduce, on a pilot basis, a compound cattle
fattening scheme.  LMB would provide, on credit, suitible animals for fatten-
ing by selected compounds, together with the necessary protein supplement,
mostly groundnut cake. Farmers would provide shelters for the animals and the
other basic ingredients of their ration. Numbers are estimated to increase
gradually from 100 animals in Project Year 1 to 500 in PY 4.



- 67 -
6.36      Detailed herd projections, broken down into animal categories and
including meat production data, are given in Tables 6.02 and 6.03.



- 68 -
VII. MARKETS AND PRICES
7.01      General.  Official agencies are involved in the marketing of the
major cash crops in The Gambia. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB)
buys all groundnuts, cotton and palm kernel, as well as a small amount of
locally produced paddy (about 200 t) which it processes and sells locally.
All export sales of agricultural commodities are by GPMB which also imports
rice and agricultural inputs such as fertilizers and chemicals. The Cattle
Marketing Board (CMB), whose activities have been virtually dormant since July
1975 (para. 2.46-7), is empowered to purchase live cattle directly or through
agents and to license all private cattle buyers. The necessity for the large
degree of official involvement in marketing is attributed to the small size
of the local market, the location of the country - a virtual enclave within
Senegal - and the seasonality of economic activity which creates dispropor-
tionate demands on private traders for working capital.
A. Crop Marketing and Prices
Groundnuts
7.02      Marketing.  Groundnuts would be marketed through primary coopera-
tive societies by GPMB which currently has a monopoly of groundnut purchas-
ing and export. GPMB is a statutory board controlled by an autonomous
Board of Directors made up of government appointees and representatives of
the cooperative movement. It has, in turn, a fully owned subsidiary: The
Gambia Produce Marketing Company Limited, located in London, which handles
all export sales. A summary of GPMB's operating results is at Table 7.01.
Incremental project production would be about 8% of current national produc-
tion; as Gambia accounts for less than 1% of the world trade in ground-
nuts, this would have no overall effect on prices.
7.03      For groundnut marketing, GPMB has licensed buying agents (LBA) who
purchse groundnuts in shell from farmers at designated buying points (about
70 all over the country). LBA usually employ traders who operate on their
behalf and who also have to be approved by GPMB. Groundnuts thus purchased
are transported by road or river to either one of GPMB's receiving points at
Denton Bridge (near Banjul) or Kaur, where LBA's then receive payment (includ-
ing an allowance for transport costs and profit margins to LBA's and traders).
GPMB's factories at Denton Bridge and Kaur decorticate groundnut which are
then either milled for oil and cake or exported as whole nuts.
7.04      Present weaknesses in the marketing system are principally the
lack of storage at primary market level, the number of intermediaries between



- 69 -
farmer and GPMB which makes for multiple handling, and the small size of
the national lorry fleet which is barely adequate to ensure the timely
evacuation of groundnuts from buying point to the river to awFait tranship-
ment by barge. The project would provide for the constructicn or rehabili-
tation of seccos (buying stations) of the primary cooperative societies
affected by the project. In addition, a groundnut marketing study is
prop-osed which would study ways to reduce multiple-handling and inferior
storage, a primary cause of aflatoxin development. GPMB itself has initiated
a program of depot construction which comprises eight more depots located
throughout the country. The sizes and location are:
Table 22
Proposed Side                   Storage Capacity (tons)
/I    Banjul                           2,875 (5 bins) Completed
/I    Barra                            4,700 (8 bins)
/I    Kerewan                          8,150 (13 bins)
/T    Tendeba (Kwinella)               5,000 (8 bins)
Kaur                            2,75b (5 bins) Completed
Sapu                            2,750 (5 bins)
Kuntaur                         2,250 (4 bins under construction)
Bansang                         2,250 (4 bins)
Basse                       /2  6,700 (6.5 bins under construction)
/I   Within project area.
/2   It is proposed to construct a depot,on each bank of the river.
Depot currently under construction is on the South Bank
(3,750 ton capacity).
7.05      These improvements would alleviate some. of the critical, bottlenecks
in groundnut marketing. For the future, the most important need is to develop
and introduce the means needed to ensure that exports of groundnut products
are in compliance with anti-aflatoxin rules set by member countries of the
European Economic Community (EEC), the main destination of Gambia's groundnut
exports. A regional association of groundnut producers (including The Gambia)
is coordinating research on this subject and a programme has recently been
financed by EEC.
7.06       Prices.  Groundnut prices are set each year by Government on the
advice of GPMB which is guided by the world market situation as assessed by
its London office, and by conditions in Senegal.  Government policy is to
maintain the real value of the price paid to farmers over the course of the
present Plan period (1976-1980). According to IBRD price projections, this
policy would require GPMB to support farmgate prices as follows:



- 70 -
Table 23
D/MT
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
Economic Farmgate Price /1       433        432       402        346        379
Expected Farmgate Price /2       364        401       431        452       475
GPMB Margin /3                     69        31        (29)     (106)       (96)
/1   Based on IBRD price projections, detailed calculations are at Appendix 7
Table 5.
/2   1975/76 farmgate price increased by the expected rate of domestic
inflation (see Appendix 7 Table 5).
/3   Profit (or loss) margin accruing to or paid by GPMB.
GPM1B's reserves at the end of December 1975 stood at D 66.0 million and would
be adequate to meet the projected price support payments. The project finan-
cial analysis has therefore ben based on these expected producer prices. The
economic analysis uses the 1978 to 1980 average economic value of groundnuts
(D 280/MT) based on IBRD forecasts in constant 1975 prices (Table 7.02).
7.07      In view of recent rapid changes in world groundnut and fertilizer
prices, producer prices would need to be monitored closely during project
implementation. Government would consult with IDA in setting prices each
year for agricultural produce and inputs.
Rice
7.08      Marketing.  National cereal consumption in recent years shows a
shift from sorghum and millet to rice and this trend has been observed in
rural as well as urban areas. Rice imports for the last three years averaged
20,000 t and supplemented annual local production amounting to about 22,000
t (33,000 t paddy equivalent). GPMB purchases some paddy (about 200 t) but
most of the marketing of locally produced rice is through private channels.
For home consumption, farmers either pound their own paddy or use the services
of itinerant millers who are generally paid in kind.
7.09      Prices.  Past official paddy and milled rice price policies have
had a deleterious effect on prospects for increased local production. Thus,
while imported and locally produced rice handled by GPMB have been sold at
subsidized prices to consumers, official producer prices for paddy have been
kept low. The price structure of rice sold by GPMB in 1974/75 is at Table 7.03,
which shiows that both the retail rice price and the prouucer price for paddy
could have been increased to the benefit of the economy as a whole. Prices
set by Government for 1975/76 reverse this policy: the producer price for
paddy has been increased by 14% to D 352-/M.T. and milled rice is to be sold
at full cost. The project financial analysis uses these prices



- 71 -
(Appendix 7, Table 6).  The price used for the economic analysis, D445/MT,
is the average of 1978-1980 farmgate equivalent of the world price based
on IBRD forecasts in constant 1975 prices (Appendix 7, Table 4).
Sorghum
7.10      Marketing.  Very little sorghum is sold for cash; it is usually
exchanged in barter or consumed by the producer's family.
7.11      Prices.  In recent cash transaction, for which records were ob-
tained, sorghum changed hands at about D 200/MT. These are in line with
IBRD forecasts and existing prices in neighboring Senegal which has a more
active sorghum markt.  Both the financial and economic analysis have conse-
quently been based on a price of D 200/MT.
B. Livestock Marketing and Prices
7.12      Marketing.  Government intends to revitalize CMB whose activities
over its initial two years of operation had resulted in an operating deficit
of D 200,000 by July 1975. A rationalization of the system of cattle market-
ing in The Gambia is desirable at this time as cattle owners are beginning to
see their cattle herd as having considerable economic value. It is also
likely that, in the absence of a reasonably large number of adequately-
financed private cattle traders, official participation in the market may
be the only way to achieve this. Consequently, it is Government's intention
to reconstitute the Board as the Livestock Marketing Board (LMB) with expe-
rienced expatriate management staff, a cadre of full-time, professionally
trained buyers and sufficient working capital to ensure trouble-free oper-
ations. It would be a condition of disbursement of project funds for live-
stock marketing that LMB had employed competent management and had produced
evidence to the satisfaction of the Association, that it had been recon-
stituted on sound legal and financial lines. Provided these arrangements
are made, LMB would be a suitable agency for ensuring the continued market-
ing of increased cattle numbers resulting from project actions. The munici-
pal abattoir in Banjul has sufficient capacity to cope with any foreseeable
increase in slaughter cattle.
7.13      Thus LMB would buy cattle at its cattle markets in the field,
mostly through agents working on commission, transport animals by barge to
Banjul and resell them at a profit. The plan addresses the weaknesses of
the original CMB which were mainly the use of inexperienced veterinary of-
ficers to purchase cattle, excessive losses between the buying point and
Banjul, and weak top management.  Key management staff, viz General Manager,
Chief Accountant and Chief Buyer (or Field Development Officer) have been
identified and will be financed by multilateral and bilateral aid sources.
7.14      Prices in The Gambia are normally controlled by official decision.
Although closure of the border to cattle as a disease-control measure has



- 72 -
reduced border trade in live animals, beef prices in neighboring Senegal have
an effect on prices in The Gambia.  Consequently, when official prices fail to
keep pace with the demand situation both in The Gambia and in Senegal, market
prices can and do move up or down accordingly (para 1.31).
7.15      Production and Demand.  According to model herd projections (Tables
5.02 and 6.03) beef production in The Gambia would be about 6,500 t by 1985/86
without the project and would go up by another 4,700 t as a result of the
project. On present trends the growth of the tourist trade and the urban
population would imply that per capita consumption of beef in The Gambia would
hardly increase from 1974/75 level of about 10 kg per capita. With production
being barely adequate to keep per capita consumption at its 1975 level, beef
production has been valued at November 1975 market prices, equivalent to
D 0.83/kg, both in the economic and financial analyses.



- 73 -
VIII. FKNANCIAL RESULTS, FARMERS AND GOVERNME1UT
A. Farmers' Benefits
8.01      The 48,000 people living in the 2,200 compounds expected to
participate in the crop production component of the project are among the
poorest in The Gambia. In 1975 the cropped area per working adult was less
tuan 1 ha and the value cf subsistence and cash crop production averaged
an et;timated D 130 (US$65) per capita. Total per capita incomes of proiect
area residents are hiighet (about * 160 or US$85) owing to limited opportuni-
L:ie., for off-season employmenlt in1 the tourist and trading sectors.  However,
these total incomes are still well below estimated average national and rural
per capita incomes, respectively D 380 (US$200) and D 255 (UTS$134).
8.02      At fuill development (PY7), the an-inual incremental production of
crops generated by the project is estimated as follows: groundnuts - 10,500
tenos, paddy - 6,500 tons and sorghun 1,100 tons and would be worth an esti-
.nated D 5.4 inillion (US$2.8 million) (in 1975 prices) to participating farmers.
Tte bases of these estimates are given in Chapter VI which analyses the
expected impact on produictivity of project actions, and iTI Chapter VII in
whichu the expected prices for project generated commodities are discussed.
8.03      Exact determination of how the average individual compound member
would benefit from the project is difficult given the complex social struc-
ture of the compound.  Under this, proceeds from the sale of the principal
cash crop, groundnuts, are distributed by the compound head under an apparently
mtutually accepted procedure. Proceeds from other cash sales devolve directly
to those who generate them; for example, worimen who grow rice sell it and
retain the sales proceeds. A component of the system is a miutually accepted
arrangement for meeting expenses, for farm inputs and labor, that is handled
by the compound head. Given these circumstances, the financial results of the
project at the compound level are expressed below in terms of:
(i)  the increase in average per capita incomes of compound
members, and
(ii)  the increase in the return to the labor input of compound
members, as a consequence of participating in the project.
8.04      In paragraph 2.02, three models, typical of the three main types
of compounds that exist in the project area, are described.  In Table 24
below the impact of the project, in financial terms, on those three models
is described. More detailed budgets appear in Tables 8.01, 8.02 and 8.03.
Table 24 shows the level of benefits increasing over a five year period as the
compounds progressively adop1. the tecl-nology packages offered urder the
proje ct.



-74-
Table 24
Financial Benefits Accruing to Participating Compounds
(1975 Dalasis)
Project Year                           PY 1       PY 2       PY 3     PY 4      PY 5
Compound Model 1
Compound Net Income 1-   2/         4,020     6,550      7,380    8,500    9,340
Compound Net Cash Income --         2,100     4,200      3,000    4,700    5,300
Net Income Per Capita                 149        242       273       315       346
Net Cash Income Per Capita             78        155       111       174       196
Net Income per Manday Employed    1.92           -          -         -       3.87
Net Cash Income per Manday           1.00        -          -         -       2.19
Employed 3/
Compound Model 2
Compound Net Income  /   2/         2,800     4,800      5,930    6,850    7,550
Compound Net Cash Income -          1,200     2,800      2,800    3,400    3,900
Net Income Per Capita                 127        218       269       311      343
Net Cash Income Per Capita             54       127        127       154      177
Net Income per Manday Employed    1.91          -           -         -      3.88
Net Cash Income Per Manday           0.81       -           -         -       2.00
Employed 3/
Compound Model 3
1/
Compound Net Income -    2/        1,900      2,700      3,055    3,600    3,950
Compound Net Cash Income -            880     1,500      1,500    1,900    2,100
Net Income Per Capita                 136       193        218       257       282
Net Cash Income Per Capita             63       107        107       136       150
Net Income per Manday Employed'   1.86          -           -         -      3.25
Net Cash Income Per Manday           0.86       -           -         -       1.73
Employed 3/
Sj Net of all expenses excluding compound labor and including the value
of produce consumed by compound members.
2/ Cash from sale of marketed crops less all compound expenses excluding
compound labor.
3/  For Manday equivalents, see footnote to Table 1.



- 75 -
8.05      On average, the current per capita incomes (inclusive of subsis-
tence production) of members of participating compounds would increase in
five years from D 130 (US$65) per annum to D 335 (US$177) or by over 250%.
In real terms, the increase would be about 200% and would bring the average
per capita income of members of compounds participating fully, in the project
to about D 260 annually compared with an expected national average of D 500
and rural average of D 300. The project would thus permit a disadvantaged
group of farmers to achieve incomes in line, at least, with the national
rural average.  Apart from increasing incomes, the project would improve the
average compounds' food position through an increase in cereal production. At
the end of five years, cereal production per capita in compotnds of type ModeL
I is estimated to increase from 215 kg annually to 345 kg, in Model 2 from
182 kg to 340 kg and in Model 3 from 200 kg to 278 kg.
8.06      In the models no account is taken of the financial results of any
improvement in the compounds' livestock production activities. This because
of lack of precise data on cattle ownership and the fact that. the project's
livestock component would extend throughout The Gambia.
B. Government Revenues
8.07      External sources would provide virtually all the ftnds needed in
the development period (through 1979). Expenditures by Government and public
agencies participating in the project would be limited to fertilizer subsidies
and-the cost of supporting producer prices for groundnuts, in line with
Government policy. Thereafter, expenditures by public bodies would be required
to meet the costs of continuing project activities at the same level and of
replacing equipment acquired during the development period. The project is
also expected to give rise to public revenues in the form of trading profits for
GPMB, export taxes on groundnuts and indirect taxes on expenditures by proj-
ect farmers out of their increased incomes. In addition, of course, Govern-
ment would have to meet the debt service on the IDA credit and the BADEA
loan. Table 25 below shows a summary of the project's cash flow which is
detailed at Table 8.04.



Table 25
SUNMARY PROJECT CASH FLOW
1976    1977       1978   1979    1980       1981      1982        1983      1984      1985
1.  Surplus (Deficit) Before         -      155.5     469.5  619.1  (917.6)  (242.9)   241.8           773.9    1377    2103.7
Debt Service
2.  Total Debt Service             41.6      80.0     131.4  186.7   186.7    439.0    439            439        439      439
3.  Net Cash Flow                 (41.6)    75.5      338.1  432.4 (1104.3)  (681.9)  (197.2)         334.9      938    1664.7
4.  Cum.Cash Flow                 (41.6)    33.9      372.0  804.4  (299.9)  (981.8) (1179.0)    (844.1)          93.9  1758.6
l.



- 77 -
8.08      The project's cash flow indicates that if groundnut prices remain
at the low levels predicted producer price supports would require a drawdown
of GPMB reserves of some D 2.9 million (US$1.5 million) over the period 1978-
1982, with a peak of D 1.1 million (US$0.6 million) in 1980.  Fertilizer sub-
sidies would cost a further D 0.4 million (US$0.2 million). On a nationwide
basis, Government's price support and fertilizer subsidy policies would re-
quire a net drawdown of D 17-20 million (US$9-10 million) in GPMB's reserves
by 1982. These reserves now amount to about D 55 million and could easily
support this burden in the event that the world market price remained de-
pressed throughout this period. Taking the ten-year period 1976-1985, the
project shows a cumulative cash flow of some D 4.6 million (US$2.4 million)
before debt service and D 1.7 million (US$0.9 million) after debt service.
Thus its implementation would not create an insupportable burden on the re-
sources of the Government and participating public agencies.,



- 78 -
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS
9.01      The project's direct economic benefits would be an increase in
the production of groundnuts, rice, sorghum and meat. At full development,
the economic value in 1975 terms of the incremental project production is
estimated at D 9.7 million (US$5.1 million) annually. About D 2.9 million
(US$1.5 million) would be derived from groundnuts, about D 2.9 million (US$1.5
million) from rice and sorghum and D 3.9 million (US$2.1 million) from meat.
The net contribution of the project to foreign exchange earnings, through
export expansion and import substitution (rice), would be about US$2.0 million
per year at full development.
9.02      The economic rate of return of the project is 23% over 10 years.
Separate rates of return have been calculated for the crop and livestock
components of the project. The crop production component costs US$8.8 mil-
lion (85% of project cost before price contingencies) has an estimated rate
of return of 17%. The livestock component (cost US$1.6 million or 15% of
base cost) has an estimated economic rate of return of 45%. In the calcu-
lation of the rate of return, details of which are in Tables 9.01 and 9.02,
the following parameters have been employed:
Benefits - Increments in groundnuts and paddy rice production
have been valued at their expected economic farm gate value on
the basis of Bank world price forecasts, see para 7.06 - 7.09.
Increments in beef and sorghum production have been valued at
farm gate prices that have been derived from market prices
ruling in Banjul in November, 1975. These prices were in line
with prices in other West African countries, and have been
used because sorghum and meat of the type and quality that
would be produced, see para 7.10-7.14, are not internationally
traded. No benefits have been attributed to investments in
infrastructure, housing, marketing facilities, and training
other than the crop and meat production described above. In
practice additional benefits would be generated; these, however,
are not quantifiable.
Costs - Investment costs during the five year project develop-
ment period are those described in Chapter 5 except that in the
calculation price contingencies have been removed, and both
cost and benefit streams expressed in 1975 dalasis. During the
remaining five years of the project life full provision is made
for operating costs, for the maintenance of project installations,
and the appropriate renewal of project vehicles and equipment.
It is assumed that project staff members will remain constant
during the ten-year project life. The increment in compound-
provided labor required as a consequence of the project has been
costed at D 0.75/day, the ruling rate. Project buildings and
certain other installations have been assumed to have a residual
value equivalent to 50% of their original cost at the end of the
project's 10 year life.



- 79 -
Rate of Exchange - An exchange rate of US$1 - D 1.90 has
been employed; this is in line with the present market
exchange rate (US$1 = D 1.94) and is not expected to change
significantly during the life of the project.
Project Life - A project life of 10 years has been assumed
as the production techniques introduced by the project are
not expected to be made obsolete in that time. The rate of
return does not change significantly for assumed project lives
of 15 years (27%) or 20 years (28%).
Sensitivity - The rate of return has been tested to determine
the impact of changes in costs and benefits. Similarly the
impact of possible droughts has been tested under the drastic
assumption of a decrease every other year in crop and livestock
production to only 65% of expected levels. The results are
summarized in Table 26 below and show that the project could
withstand circumstances more adverse than may be reasonably
expected yet remain economically justified.
Table 26
Sensitivity Analysis
Benefits Decrease by:                     0%       10%        20%       Drought
Costs Increase by:
0%             23      19          11           13
10%             19      15           -            -
20%             16       -           9
Risks - The risk element of the project is considered moderate.
The crop husbandry improvement techniques to be employed have
been tested elsewhere in West Africa and have been readily
adopted by farmers. There is no reason to believe that a
similar response will not occur in The Gambia, and in any event
it has been assumed that only 60% of farmers in the project
area would participate in the project.
9.03      Undoubtedly the project will impose a major problem of absorption
on the Ministry of Agriculture; and in particular it will involve logistical
and management problems of a size and type so far not encountered by MANR
personnel. While technical assistance will be provided it will be essential
for MANR to identify early any incipient weaknesses in either project staffing
or personnel.
9.04      The livestock component of the project is the most difficult to
evaluate. While proposed project actions clearly are sound and can be
costed with reasonable accuracy, estimates of benefits are subject to a wide
margin of error in the absence of detailed results of a similar program in



- 80 -
a comparable country. Fortunately the benefits of this component of the
project could fall to only 45% of those forecasts and still generate a rate
of return in excess of 10%.
9.05      No environmental risks are expected to result from implementation
of the project; the only toxic materials involved would be very small quanti-
ties of seed dressings which would be handled under controlled conditions.
Indeed through the project's erosion control measures some environmental
improvement should result.



- 81 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government
would:
(a) cause GCU to curtail credit to societies in which credit
repayment fell below 95% (para 3.20);
(b) cause to be appointed consultants satisfactory to IDA and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to prepare a
feasibility study for a follow-up project and for the
groundnut marketing study (para 3.44);
(c) establish the Projects Coordinating Committee (para 4.03);
(d) submit annually to the Association for comment work plans
and implementation schedules within the framework of
project proposals (para 4.05);
(e)  appoint a Project Coordinator and a Project Officer with
qualifications, experience and terms-of-reference satis-
factory to IDA (para 4.06);
(f) cause to be prepared, and to submit to IDA for rev:iew, an
annual work program for the Department of Agriculture
(para 4.06);
(g) cause to be prepared an annual work plan for the Road
Construction Unit agreed to by the Directors of Agri-
culture and Public Works, and the Registrar of
Cooperatives (para 4.21);
(h) submit for IDA review in a timely manner the draft annual
budgets for all participating departments (para 5.06);
(i) follow the procedures set out in para 5.08 for the procure-
ment of items financed by the IDA credit (para 5.08);
(j) cause GPMB to provide from its reserves the cost of sub-
sidies on fertilizer sold to farmers on credit (para 5.09);
(k) cause to be prepared and submitted to IDA for review at the
beginning of each fiscal year a schedule for the maintenance
program for all buildings and vehicles financed under this
project (para 5.11);
(1) cause project accounts to be kept and audited in t:he manner
set out in this report and submit audited accounts no later
than four months after the close of the fiscal year (paras
5.12 to 5.15);



- 82 -
(m) appoint a consultant with qualifications, experience, and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA who would review
accounting procedures in MANR; and promptly implement the
recommendations of such a consultant provided they are
mutually acceptable to IDA and Government (para 5.13);
(n) consult with IDA in the setting of official prices for
agricultural produce and inputs (para 7.07).
10.02     It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that Government
has concluded satisfactory financing agreements with the U.K. Government
and BADEA (para 5.04).
10.03     A condition of disbursements of funds for livestock marketing would
be that CMB had secured competent management and had produced evidence to the
satisfaction of IDA that it had been reconstituted on sound legal and finan-
cial bases (para 7.12).
10.04     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.1 million to the
Government of The Gambia.



THE GAMB IA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP PRODUCTION ESTIMATES IN THE GAMBIA 1973-74
AND 1974-75 (PRODUCTION t, AREA ha, YIELD t/ha)
Groundnuts               Rice Alluvial                  Millet                 Sorghum
(Non-Irrigated)
t        ha      t/ha      t        ha     t/ha      t         ha      t/ha      t      ha     t/ha
1/
In Project Area 1973-74
Western Division         8,900      9,920   0.88    3,700    4,000   0.92    1,800    4,120    0.44    400   1,440   0.31
Lower River Division    8,600       9,280   0.91    3,700    2,960   1.22    1,000    1,880    0.55    400          680   0.53
North Bank Division    47,400    20,840   2.24    4,200    3,560-  1.16    3,800    5,640    0.66  1,400   1,880   0.75
TOTAL                   64,900    40,040   1.62   11,600   10,520   1.10    6,600   11,640    0.56  2,200   4,000   0.55
1/
In The Gambia 1973-74       112,900    72,960   1.54   17,500   14,240   1.22   13,300   19,000    0.70  9,000  13,720   0.65
2/
In The Gambia 1974-75       147,000   104,000   1.41   23,400   20,000   1.17   22,900   26,400    0.86  9,100  12,000   0.75
1/    Source: N,ational Sample Survey of Agriculture 1973-74
21    Source: Preliminary Agricultural Sample Survey 1974-75
December 17, 1975                                                                                                            e
0'
03



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTLJURE DEARINF - EXISTING DISPOSITION OF FIELD STAFF
Instructors                            Demonstrators
Agr.      Snr.    Agr.      Snr.    Agr.      Jnr.       Stu-   Snr.                 Asst.    Asst.
Location                     Officer   Agr.       Supt.   Agr.    Asst.   Agr.        dents   Instr.    Instr.   Instr.   lastr.          Rice   Cotton   G/Nuts   Hort.            Total
Supt.             Asst.             Asst.                                            Trainee
HQ - Cape                         1         1        -         -        -        -        -         -         -         -          -                   -         -          -            2
Western Division                  1         -        -         1        4        3        -         -         -         -          -          3        -        13          1          26
Lower River Division              1         -        -        -        2        3         -         -         -        -           -         3         -        12         3           24
North Bank Division               1         -        1        -         3        3        -         -         -        --          -          4        -         9          3          24
MacCarthy Isl.Division            -         -        1         1        7        3        -         -         -         -          -         27        -         8          6          53
Upper River Division              -         -        1        1        8        3         -         -         -         -          -        18         -         6         6           43
5 W.D. M.F.Cs.                    -         -        -        -        5         -        -         5         5       10           5          -        -         -          -          30
4 L.R.D. M.F.Cs.                  -         -        -        -        4         -        -         4         4         8          4          -        -         -          -          24
4 N.B.D. M.F.Cs.                  -         -        -        -        4         -        -         4         4        8           4          -        -         -          -          24
6 M,I.D. M.F.Cs.                  -         -        -        -        6         -        -         6         6       12           6          -        -         -         -           36
5 U.R.D. M.F.Cs.                  -         -        -        -        5         -        -         5         5       10           5          -        -         -         -           30
Sub-total           4          1        3        3       48       15        -        24         24       48         24         55        -        48         19         316
Cotton Program                    -         -         -        1       10        -        -         -         -         -          -          -       50         -          -          61
Agr.Dev't Projects                -         -        -         1        7        1        -         -         -         -          -        48         -         -          -          57
Training Unit                     -         I        -        -         1        -        -         -         -         -          -          -        -         -          -            2
Seed Production                   -         -        1        1         2        -        -         -         -         -          -          -        -         -          -           4
Agr.Research                      -         -        1         -        5        -        -         -         -         -          -          -        -         -          -            6
Horticulture HQ                   -         -        -         -        3        1        -         -          -        -          -          -        -          -         6           10
Youth Work                        -         -        -         -        1        -        -         -         -         -          -          -        -         -          -            1
Home Improvement                  -         -         -                 5        -                  _         _         -          -         _         -         -          -5
Sub-total           -          1        2        3           34    2        -                                                  48       50                    6          146
In-Service Trng.- Abroad          -         -        1         1        6        -        -         -         -         -          -          -        -         -          -            8
Pre-Service      l-st Year    -             -        -        -         1        -       18         -         -         -          -          -        -         -          -          19
-2nd Year       -         -        -        -        _        -        29         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -          29
Sub-total           -          -        1        1        7                47          -         -        _           -         -        _          -         _           56
Total               4          2        6        7       89       17       47        24         24       48          24       103       50         48        25          518 s
December 17  1975                                                                                                                                                                         2



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEED QUANTITIES REQUIRED IN THE  PROJECT  1/
PY I                                    PY 2                                    PY 3                                      PY 4                   PY 5 - 10
SEED    SEED               SEED    2/  CROP    SEED                 SEED         CROP    SEED               SEED         CROP    SEED                SEED         CROP    SEED
RATE    PLOTS    YIELD    PRODUCED    AREA    PLOTS    YIELD    PRODUCED    AREA    PLOTS    YIELD    PRODUCED    AREA    PLOTS    YIELD    PRODUCED    AREA    PLOTS
CROP            kg/ha      ha      kg/ha      t           ha       ha      kg/ha       t          ha       ha      kg/ha        t          ha       ha       kg/ha       t          ha       ha
GROUNDNUTS        100      92      1,200     110        2,653      269     1,300      350        8,024     400      1,400      560      12,778      409      1,400      573       13,021    409
RICE UPLAND        90      18      1,200      22          552       50     1,200       60        1,672      82      1,300      106       2,669       83      1,300      108        2,730      83
RICE ALLUVIAL      60      30      1,200      36        1,374       92     1,200      110        4,194     127      1,400      178       6,728      131      1,400      183        6,910    131
SORGHUM            12       1      1,000       1          214        3     1,000        3          695       6      1,000        6       1,253        8      1,000        8        1,436       8
COTTON  3/         35      52        600      31        2,000       75       600       45        3,200     103        600       62       4,000      103        600       62        4,000    103
1/    Seed production ia based on a three year replacement cycle.
2/    Seed production figures include:  a)  10% for previous multiplication stages.
b) 207. as reserve.
3/    Produced for ADB cotton scheme ji Upper River Division.
December 17, 1975
c
FH






THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RAINFALL FIGURES FOR YUNDUM (28 YEARS),                   ArPEIiDIX I
MANSA KONKO (16 YEARS) AND BASSE (26 YEARS)                  Table 2
500_   Yundum
ANN.MEAN = 1205mm
400-
E
E
300-
LL
200-
100 
400
Mansa Konko
ANN.MEAN = 1092mm
300-
E
E
< 200-
400
Basse
ANN. MEAN = 1035mm
E 300-
E
-J_
u- 200
100 _
MAY      JUNE      JULY      AUG.    SEPT.       OCT.      NOV.
MONTH
World Bank-15663






Thble 4.oi
THE GAMBIA
ACRICUTLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Year and Month
Responsible                              Year I                  Year 2              _    Year 3                  Year 4
Activity                                   Authority                          3    6    9    12       3    6    9    12        3    6    9    12       3    6    9   12
BuLilding Progran
Housing                                Project Coordinator
Produce Markets                        Cooperative Department
Livestock Markets                      C.M.B.
Stockroote                             C.M.B.
Holding Grounds                        C,M.B.
Agricultural Extension
and Training
Construction of Training Centers   Agriculture Department
Training Courses                            .._..
Enhanced Field Extension
Koad Development
Purclase of Equipment                  Project Coordinator
Staff Recruitment                        I"                                      _     _
Road Construction                      Ministry of Works
Road Maintenance
Seed Production and Research
Purchase of Equipment                  Project Coordinator
Staff Recruitment                         "          "_
Seed Produ-ction                      Agriculture Department
Research Program                            "
Extension Aids
Construction of Buildings              Project Coordinator
Staff Training                        Agriculture Department
Production of Material                      "
Livestock Improvement
Animal Health Programs                 Veterinary Department
Improved Husbandry Programs
Cooperative Development
Improved Supervision                  Cooperative Department
ITproved Training                           "      
Project Studies
Improved Groundnut Marketing          Project Coordinator
Irrigation Feasibility
Dota  Collection                                                                                                  _    _         __        _
Agric. Dev. Project Preparation
Dc-ember 17, t975






THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Existing Organization Ministry of Agriculture)
MINISTER
I PERMANENT 1
ISECRE TARY    I
HYDRO-      AGRICULTURAL   ~     ~    ~ ~~ ~~~NIML  EALTH &                                      FISHERIES               FORESTRY                          COOPERATIVE
METEOROLOGICAL                 AOIUTRLPRODUCTON                                                                      DPRMN                    EATETDPRMN
DEPARTMENT            ~~DEPARTMENT                                    DEPARTMENT                             DPRMN                    EATETDPRMN
SPECIALIST    AGRIC.                                  PRODUCTION       HEALTHDEVT&                                               ADODCI  EIV
SECES T NAGINRI EN T                                                                                              RESEARCH | OISTRATION
ANIML            AMAL                                                                                                     1- I A
IDIVISION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETESO  SUEVSONTANN
RESOURCES  DESIGN AND  METEOROLOGY                              EXTENSION      INSPECTION      RESEARCH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrldDak-146






THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Proposed Organization Ministry of Agriculture)
MINISTER
INTERNAL                    PERMANENT                     P                      C
AUDIT                       SECREAYUICOMTE
ADMINISTRATIVE         HYDROMETEOROLOGICAL             AGRICULTURAL                                     ANIMAL HEALTH &                     FORESTRY                    FISHERIES                 COOPERATIVE
DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTMENT                                       PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT                  DEPARTMENT                DEPARTMENT
AGRICULTURAL                                                                      FRS
RESEARCH &                  EXENIOVAIMLORMENTFIHRECOPATV
SPECALIS                I R                                            -IN3
ESTARLISHMENT  |             METEOROLOGY                 SPECI AGRLISTA               AID C- XENTERN              HE AIALTHi   DEVELOPMENT                               EXTENSION                   COEXATENSION
SERVICES                                                                          & RESEARCH
IN- {OREST                                                                                                   COOPERATIVE
S|TORENSPOR           WATER RESOURCES                                             TRAINING                 ANIMAL                       ADMN                         ISHERIES                  AUDIT AN
DEELPMNTCNTER         PRODUCTION                    TRD                           IEORS
I RRIGATION              FIELD SERVICES                                                                                                                               COOPERAPNIN
FINANCE            ~~~DESIGN &      --        & AGRICULTURAL                                          ANMLAIRETIHRE                                                                        OPRATIVEN
& ACCOUNTS   I    ~CONSTRUCTION               ENGINEERINGHURNRREACHTIIG
TRANSPORT             i       EXTENSION      --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TE RANIDGUSITRYXESINADNT
- - -     - ADMNISTRA IV SUPRIN  NSEVC  RINN U IT ARAALALET
====T CLOSE WORKING LIAISON
WDeed Bbek- 548
D--,.b~ 1975






THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(D0O00)
1                     2                    3                     4                   TOTAL                F.E. Cost
A.   EXTENSION AND TRAINING
1.   CAPITAL COSTS
a.   Regional Headquarters
Buildings                                  213.5                 175.4                   -                     -                   388.9                   233.34
Vehicles                                   109.6                                                               -                   109.6                    98.64
Equipment                                    4.0                    -                    -                     -                     4.0                     3.6
b.   Development Center (MFC)
Buildings                                  321.3                 321.3                428.3                    -                 1,070.9                  642.5
Vehicles                                     14.8                 14.8                 19.7                    -                    49.3                    44.4
Equipment
c.   Extension Aids Unit
Buildings                                   83.9                  81.0                   -                     -                   164.9                    98.9
Vehicles                                       -                    -                    -                     -                      -                       -
Equipment                                   10.9                  21.6                  5.5                  5.5                    43.5                    39.2
S/total: Capital Costs                     758.0                 614.1                453.5                  5.5                 1,831.1                1,160.6
2.   OPERATING COSTS
a.   Regional Headquarters
Local Staff                                    -                    -                    -                    -
Expatriate Staff                               -                    -                    -                    _
Operations and Maintenance                    9.1                 29.8                 62.4                 62.6                   163.9                    65.6
b.   Development Centers (MFC)
Local Staff                                    -                    _                    _                     _
Expatriate Staff
JOpratos                                                                                                              adMit                   ..........a 7. ..3. 5 118.  2 71    on.8
c.   Extension aids Unit                                                                                                                                                               1-
Local Staff                                   8.4                 16.8                 16.8                 16.8                    58.R
Expatriate Staff                               -                    -                    -                     -
Operations and Maintenance                   22.4                 22.4                 42.7                 42.7                   13).!                    13.)                   C
Fellowship Award                               -                  14.0                   -                     -                    14.0                                           H
S/Total: Operating Costs                    47.7                 118.3                187.3                240.7                   594.0                   20  3
BASE-COST : EXTENSION & TRAINING                 805.7                732.4                640.8                 246.2                2.425.1_



ThE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
WIoOO)
B.   LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
1.   CAPITAL COSTS
a.   Market Development
Buildings/Civil Works                      105.0                 120.0                 25.0                    -                   250.0                   126.0
Vehicles                                   129.9                                         -                    -                    129.9                   116.9
Equipment                                     -                     _
S/Total                                    234.9                120.0                  25.0                   -                    379.9                  242.9
b.   Veterinary Services
Buildings                                   60.5                                         -                    -                     60.5                    36.3
Vehicles                                   237.9                    -                    -                     -                   237.9                   213.1
Equipment                                   67.5                  32.5                  5.0                  5.0                   110.0                    99.0
S/Total                                    365.9                  32.5                  5.0                  5.0                   408.4                   348.4
c.   Animal Husbandry Services
Buildings                                  370.8                 168.0                   -                    -                    538.8                  323.3
Vehicles                                     99.5                   -                    -                     -                    99.5                    89.5
Equipment
S/Total                                    470.3                 168.0                   -                    -                    638.3                  412.8
d.   Livestock Production Investments
Grazing Routes                               5                    15                   15                   20                      55.0                    22.0
Watering Pumps and Well                      15                   35                   55                   55                     160.0                    80.0
Steer - Fattening Schemes                   15                    30                   15                   15                      75.0
S/Total                                     35.0                  80.0                 85.0                 90.0                   290.0.                 102.0
S/Total: Capital Costs                   1,106.1                400.5                 115.0                 95.0                 1,716.6                1,106.1
2.   OPERATING COSTS
a.   Market Development
Staff
Operations and Maintenance                   14.8                 19.4                 19.4                 19.4                    73.0                   29.2
S/Total                                     14.8                  19.4                 19.4                 19.4                    73.0                   29.2
b.   VeterinarY Services
Staff
Drugs and Supplies                           25.2                 43.4                 54.8                 45.2                   168.6                   145.1
Operations and Maintenance                  14.2                  21.2                 21.2                 21.2                    77.8                    31.1
S/Total                                     39.4                  64.6                 76.0                 66.4                   246.4                  176.2
c.   Animal Husbandry Services
Staff (Local)                                84.2                157.3                157.3                157.3                   556.1
Supplies                                      2.0                  3.0                  4.0                  4.0                    13.0                    6.5
Operations and Maintenance                   19.2                 75.1                 93.5                103.5                   291.3                   83.0
S/Total                                    105.4                 235.4                254.8                 64.8                   860.4                   89.5
S/Total:Operating Costs                    159.6                 319.4                350.2                350.6                 1.179.8                  294.9
BASE-COST: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT              1265.7                 719,9               _465.2                445.6                 2,896.4                Ls4o1.O



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTUBAI- DEVELOPEIiT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUNWAPY
(D'OOO)
C.   COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT
1.    CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings                                 1,573.6                470.0                    _                                       2,043.6                 1,196.1
Vehicles                                    229.2                 17.1                                          -                   246.3                   221.7
S/Total                                  1,802.8                 487.1                    -                     -                 2,289.6                 1.417.8
2.    OPERATING COSTS
Staff (Local)                               111.5                111.5                 111.5                111.5                   446.0                      -
Supplies, Materials                           6.8                  7.8                   7.8                   7.8                   30.2                    15.1
Operations and Maintenance                   14.0                116.8                 147.8                 147.8                  426.4                   162.9
S/Total                                     132.3                236.1                 267.1                267.1                   902.6                   178.0
BASE-COST:  COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT           1.935.1                723.2                 267.1                 267.1                3,192.5                 1.595.8
D. AGRICULTURAL IYWPUS AND EQUIPMENT
a.  Seasonal Input Credit                          -                 293 L                 6.1).9                561.1                1,458.1                 1,312.3
b.  Oxen                                           -                  233.1                501.9                 425.6                1,160.6                      -
c.  Ox Implements                                  -                 375.4                 810.3                 686.4                1,872.1                 1,591.3
BAgt-mnsT. A4RuC. INUTS AD EQUIPMENT                                        903.6              1,914.1               1,673.L                '4,490.3                2,905.6
E.   CROP EXTRACTION ROADS
1.    CAPITAL COSTS
Plant and Equipment                         790.0                    -                   5.0                    -                   795                     715.5
2.    OPERATING COSTS
Operations and Maintenance                   16.5                234.7                 234.7                 234.7                  720.6                   274.0
E-OST:  CROP EXRCTION ROADS                           806.5                 234.7                239.7                 234.7                 1,515.6                   989.5
F.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1.    CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings                                   303.6                                                               -                   303.6                   182.1
Vehicles                                     34.8                  ' -                                                                34.8                   31.3
Equipment                                    51                     5                    5                     5                     66.0                    53.4
S/Total                                     389.4                  5                     5                     5                    404.4                   266.8
2.    OPERATING COSTS                                 152.5                 204.8                 214.8                214.8                   786.9                   436.9
of which Expatriate Staff                       100.0                 100.0                100.0                 100.0                  400.0                    360.0
BASE-COST PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           541.9                209.8                 219.8                219.8                 1,191.3
H
.5
0



THE GAMBI.A
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMRARY
(D'OOO)
G.   SEED PRODUCTION
1.    CAPITAL COST
Buildings/Civil Works                       604.8                 14                    14                      -                   632.8                   413.6
Plant and Equipment                         208.2                                                                                   208.2                   187.4
S/Total                                     813.0                 14                    14                      -                   841.0                   601.0
2.    OPERATING COST
Expatriate Salaries                         350                  300                   300                                          950.0                   760.0
Local Salaries                               23.3                 31.3                  36.4                  36.4                  127.4                      -
Operations and Maintenance                   40.6                 48.2                  61.1                  70.9                  220.8                     92.6
S/Total                                     413.9                379.5                 397.5                 107.3
BASE-COST:  SEED PRODUCTION                         1.226.9                 393.5                 411.5                107.3                 2.139.2                 1,453.6
H.   ADULT NUMERACY
1.    CAPITAL COST
Buildings                                     5.0                    -                    -                     -                      5.0                     2.0
Equipment                                     3.0                  0.3                   0.3                   0.3                     3.9                     1.9
Vehicles                                     18.0                    -                    -                     -                     18.0                    16.2
2.    OPERATING COST                                   38                    40.5                  40.5                 40.5                   159.5                    10.2
BASE-COST:  ADULT NUMERACY                              64.0                 40.8                  40 .8                40.8                   186.4                    30.3
I.   STUDIES  AND CONSULTANCIES
1.        Jakhally Swamp                                  -                 266.0                                          -                   266                     239.4
2.        Groandmst Marketing                          41.8                    -                                           -                    41.8                    37.6
3         Feasibili:j  ,E Poll.  ...wzup Project       5.0                                                            178.6                   178.6                   160.7
4.        Accounting Assistancz                       285.6                    -                     -                                          285.6                  257.0
BASE-COST:  STUDIES AND CONSULTANCIES                 321.4                 266.0                    -                 178.6                   722.0                   694.8
TOTAL BASE COST                                     6,973.2               4,223.9              4,199.0               3,413.2               18,809.3                 il,155.1
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                           183.1                106.4                 103.5                 71.6                   464.6                   333.1
EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES (137. of total base cost)  355.1                   568.4                 802.4                768.4                 2,494.3                 1,379.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   7,511.4              4,898.7               5,104.9              4,253.2                21,768.2                1_2.868.1
December 17, 1975
CD



THE GANBIA                         Table 5.02
AaRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'T
ESTIMATED DISBURSEIENT SCHEDULE
US$ 'ooo
IDA Fiscal Year
and                               Disbursement
Quarter ending                 In Quarter           Cumilative
1977
September
December                          10                    10
March                             10                    20
June                              40                    60
1978
September                        140                   200
December                         250                   450
March                            280                   730
June                             320                 1,050
1979
September                        330                 1,380
December                         330                 1,710
March                            310                 2,020
June                             310                 2,330
1980
September                        350                 2,680
December                         350                 3,030
March                            360                 3,390
June                             360                 3,750
1981
September                        175                 3,925
December                         175                 4,100
December 17, 1975



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASING OF AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION OF IMPROVED CROPS
2/
1/    TOTAL AREA (ha)                       1/       YIELD (kg/ha)                        1/        TOTAL PRODUOMTON (t)
Crop                     Model   PY I    PY 2      PY 3    PY 4      PY 5    PY 1    PY 2    PY 3        PY 4     PY 5    PY I   PY 2        PY 3      PY 4     PY 5      PY 6   PY 7-10
Groundnuts Oil Seed      I       1,898     435    1,388    2,191    2,191      900    1,200    1,300    1,400    1,500    1,723      522    1,711    2,817    3,038    3,214    3,300
II     7,627   1,898    6,118    9,871   10,114      900    1,200    1,300    1,400    1,500    6,798   2,264    7,507   12,629   13,962   14,828   15,254
Groundnuts Confect.      III       717     320      518      717      717      800    1,100    1.200    1.300    1,400       582     350       597      873       964      989    1,008
Total 10,242   2,653    8,024   12,779   13,021       -       -         -        -        -       9,103   3,136    9,815   16,319   17,964   19,031   19,562
Rice Upland              I         496     116      370      584       584     800    1,200    1,200    1,300    1,300       409      139      444      713       738      759      759
II     1,492     366    1,189    1,929    1,990      800    1,200    1,200    1,300    1,300    1,161       433    1,398    2,327    2,653    2,653    2,653
III      157      70      113      156       156     800    1,200    1,200    1.300    1.300       134       80      130      190       196      202       202
Total  2,145     552    1,672    2,669    2,730       -       -         -        -        -       1,704     652    1,972    3,230    3,587    3,614    3,614
Rice Swamp               I         964     215      685    1,081    1,081   1,000    1,200    1,200    1,400    1,400        964     255       814    1,332    1,433    1,518    1,518
II     4,311     999    3,250    5,289    5,471   1,000    1,200    1,200    1,400    1,400    4,311   1,199    3,913    6,589    7,262    7,262    7,262
III      358     160      259      358       358   1,000    1,200    1,200    1,400    1,400       358      190      308      456       474      492      492
Total  5,633   1,374    4,194    6,728    6,910       -        -        -        -        -       5,633   1,644    5,035    8,386    9,169    9,272    9,272
Sorghum                  I         146      41      110      185       185     500      800      800       900    1,000       88       35      111      180       181      194      204
II       332     133      520      978    1,161      500      800      800       900    1,000      166      100      415      812    1,100    1,100    1,161
III       90      40       65       90        90     500      800       800      900    1.000       45       30       48        76       83       90        90
Total    568     214       695    1,253    1,436      _       _         _        _        _         299     165      574    1,068    1,356    1,384    1,455
1/    PY 1 is the year of building the infrastructure, training staff, supplying equipment, etc.  There will be very little improved field activities in this year and therefore
PY 1 = situation before project.
2/   Differences in figures (area x yield) caused by roundations in preliminary calculations and phasing of compounds into project.



THE GAMBIA
AGRICtJIC MRAL      MRVElOP PROJECT
Herd Projeiticn (Without the Pr,oject)
End of Year
UNIT  Before
eOvelopment       I           2           3          4          5          6           7          8           9         10-20
Head, 000
Bulls                   No          4.6         4.8         4.9        5.0         5.1        5.1        5.2         5.2        5.2        5.2         5.2
Breeding cowL                     116.0       119.5       123.1       125.5      127.8      128.5      128.9       129.3      129.3       129.2      129.3
Calves 0-1 y.                      47.3        48.7        49.4       50.1        50.2       50.4       50.7        50.8       50.8       50.8        50.8
Heifers 1-2 y.                    20.2         20.8        21.2       21.5        21.5       21.6       21.4        21.5       21.5       21.5        21.5
Steers  1-2 y.                     18.1        18.8        19.1        19.3       19.3       19.4       19.3        19.4       19.4        19.4       19.4
Heifers 2-3 y.                     19.0        19.6        20.2       20.4        20.6       20.4       20.5        20.3       20.3       20.3        20.3
Steers  2-3 y.                     13.7        14.1        14.6        14.6       14.5       14.6        14.7       14.6       14.6        14.E       14.6
Steers  3-4 y.                      8.4         8.5         8.9        9.0         9.0        9.0        8.8         9.0        9.0         9.0        9.0
Oxen                               19.5        20.7        21.9       23.1        24.3       25.5       26.7        27.9       29.1       30.3        31.5
Sub total Adult                219.5        226.8       233.9      238.4       242.4      244.1      245.5       247.2      248.4      249.6       249.6
Total No of Anistals  Av.      276.9 .    286.0         293.9      299.7       303.9      306.3      308.2       310.0      311.2      312.4       313.6
Mortality
Bulls                   No          0.1         0.1         0.1        0.2         0.2        0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3
Breeding cows                       3,9         4.1         4.2        5.7         5.8        7.4        7.4         7.5        7.6         7.6        7.6
Calves                            20.3        .20.9        21.2       22.5        22.6       23.7       23.9        23.9       24.0        24.0       24.0
Heifers 1-2 y.                     2.8          2.8         3.2        3.2         3.5        3.5        3.8         3.8        3.9         3.9        3.9
Steers  1-2 y.                     2.8          2.8         3.1         3.2        3.5        3.5        3.8         3.8        3.8         3.8        3.8
Heifers 2-3 y.                     0.6          0.6         0.6        0.8         0.9        1.1         1.1        1.1        1.2         1.2        1.2
Steers  2-3 y.                      0.5         0.5         0.6        0.8         0.8        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.1        1.1        1.1
Steers  3-4 y.                     0.4          0.4         0.4        0.6         0.6        0.7        0.7         0.7        0.7         0.7        0.7
Steers 4-5 y. & Oxer                0.8         0.8         0.9         1.2        1.3        1.7         1.7        1.8         1.8        1.9        2.0
Sales
Cull bulls              No          0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8        0.8        0.9         0.9        0.9        0.9         0.9        0.9
Cull cows                          11.2        11.4        11.8        12.1       12.3       12.5        12.6       12.6        12.7       12.7       12.7
Steers 1-2 y.                      2.0          2.1         2.1        2.2         2.2        2.2        2.1         2.2        2.2         2.2        2.2
Steers 2-3 y.                       3.4         3.5         3.6         3.7        3.7        3.7        3.7         3.7        3.7         3.7        3.7
Steers 3-4 y.                       3.6         3.7         3.8         3.9        3.9        3.9         3.8        3.B        3.7         3.7        3.7
Steers 4-5 y.                       3.5         3.1         2.9         2.8        2.6        2.0         1.8        1.3         1 3        1.0        0.7
Cull oxen                           3.2         3.3         3.5         3.7        3.9        4.1        4.3         4.5        4.7         4.9        5.1
Total No of Sales               27.7         27.9        28.5       29.2        29.4       29.3       29.2        29.0       29.2       29.1        29.0
Production Oata
Calving rate                      60           60          59          59         58         58         58          58         58          58         58
Can fmqtality rate                 30          30          30          31         31         32         32          32         32          32         32
i-1Y.                              12          12          13                     il                    13          15         15          15         15
Adult              "                3           3           3           4          4          5          5           5          5           s          S
Extraction rate                    10.1        10.1        10.0        10.0        9.8        9.6        9.5         9.4        9.4         9.4        9.3
Cows culling rate                   9.9         9.8         9.9         9.8        9.8        9.8        9.8         9.9        9.8         9.8        9.8
8ull culling rate                  15.6        16.6        16.6        15.6       16.6       16.6        16.6       16.6       16.6        16.6       16.6
Oxen culling rate                  16.6        15.5        16.6        16.6       16.5       15.6        16.6       15.5        16.6       16.6       16.6
Urit                          MEAT PROOLCTION (Live/eisht lb,000)
Cull bulls livevweight  lb       f            520         520         520        520        585        s5el        585        595         585        585
Cull cows                        o500       5700        5900       6 050       6 15C      6 250      6 300       6 300      6 350      6 350       6 350
Cull oxen      l        "        750        2 475       2625       2 775       2 925      3 Cr75     3 225       3 3?5      3 525      3 575       3 825
Steers 1-2 y.                    250          525         525         550        550        550        525         5so SS0          550              550
Steers 2-3y.                      400       1 400        1440       1 480      1 480      1 480       1 140      1 44U       _200       1 400      1 400                 C'
Steers 3--4 y.                    5C0       1 5tq        1 900        950      1 ?=G      1 9Es_n                1 914(C    1 0-0 1       85n      1 e sn                a 3
Steers 4-5 y.                     570       1 757       1653        1 59f      1 4a2      1 140      1 5f i    7111           741        570         399                 N)
Total Meet Proodction                    11423?      1L 563?  121           15 C ''7 I .  20      '           114 'C6    14 1410     14 375     114 374



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELORKE  PROJ1T
Herd Projection (With the Project)
Before                                         -  End of year -
Development    1           2           3           4           5           6         7                      9           10-20
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ H ead   000   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
EB,lls                        NO        4.6         4.8         4.9         5.'0        5.0         5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0          5.0
Ereeding cows                         *16.0       119.0       122.0       125.0       125.0       125.0      125.0     125.0       125.0     125.0        125.0
elves 0 - 1 year                       47.3        50.1        54.6        59.3        64.4       C8.0       68.0       68.0       68.0       68.0         6B.0
-ei'ers 1- 2                           20.2        21.1        22.6        24.8        27.3       29.9       31.6       31.6       31.6       31.6         31.6
S-teers  t - 2                         14.1        18.9        20.2        22.4        24.6       26.9       28.4       28.4       28.4       28.4         28.4
Hei,'ers 2 - 3                         19.0        19.6        20.7        22.1        24.3        26.8      29.3        31.0       31.0      31.0         31.0
Steers  2 . 3                          13.7        15.0        17.7        16.8        18.7        20.5      22.4       23.6       23.6       23.6         23.6
.Steers 3 - 4                            8.4         9.8       tO.7         12.9        13.7       15.5       18.2       18.9       19.9       19.9         19.9
Oxer                                   19.5        21.5        23.9        26.7        29.9        33.5       33.5       33.5       33.5      33.5         33.5
Sub-toatl A,ult NO          21v.5       229.7       240,7       255.7       265.5       283.1      293.4      297.0      298.G     298.0        298.0
Total N° of animals Av.     276.9       289.8       305.3       324.4       341.9       359.6      369.9      373.5      374.5     374.5        374.5
Uortality
Bulls                         NO        tl.1        0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1          0.1          0.1
Breeding cows                           3.9         4.1        2, e         2.9         2.9         3 0        3.0        3. 1       3.1         3.1          3.1
Calvjes                                20.3        19.5        19.2        18.8        18.1        17.0       17.0       17.0       17.0         17.0         17.0
Heifers  1 - 2                          2.8         2.6         2.5         2.5         2.4         2.3        2.4        2.4        2.4          2.4         2.4
Steers   I - 2                          2.8         2.6         2.6         2.4         2.3         2.3        2.4        2.4        2.4          2.4          2.4
Heifers 2 - 3                  "        0.6   .    0.6          0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5        0.8        0.6        0.6          0.6          0.6
Steers  -2 - 3                "         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5        0.5        0.6        0.6          0.6         0.6
Steers   3-4                   "        0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4        0.4        0.4        0.5          0.5          0.5
Steers  4-5 y and sxen                  0.8         0.8         0.6.        0.7         0.8         0.9        1.0        1.0        1.0          1.1          1.1
Sel.es_
Heifers                       NO                                                        3.0         5.0        7.5        9.9       11.6         11.6         11.6
Cull bulls                              0.8         0.8         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9        0.9        0.9       0.9           0.9          0.9
Cull cows                     "        11.2        11.9        13.8        14,8        16,2        16.3       1653       16.3       16.3         16.3         16.3
Steers 1 -2 years                       2.0         2.1         2.2         2.5         2.7         3.0        3.2        3.2        3.2          3.2          3.2
2 - 3                             3.4        2.6         2.8         3.0         3.3         3.6        4.0        4.2        4.2          4.2          4.2
3 - 4                            3.6         2.4         2.9'        1.4         1.5         1.7        1.9        2.1        2.2          2.2          2.2
4 - 5                            3.5         2.3         2.5         1.7         2.0         0.5        4.8        7.5        8.2          9'1          9.1
Cull oxen                               3.2         3.3         4.3         5.5         6.9         8.7        9,7        9.7        9.7          9.7          9.7
Total Sales NO                    27.7        25.4        29.4        29.8        36.5        39.7       48.3       53.8       56.3         57,2         57.2
5.Sduction Data
Calving rate                           60          60          62          64          66          68         68         68         68           68           68
Calf mortality rate                    30          28          26          24          22          20         20         20         20           20           20
" I - 2 y,mortality ratc     "        12          11          10           9           8           7          ,7                    7            7            7
Adult         "        "      "         3           3           2           2           2           2          2          2          2            2            2
Extraction rate-                        10.1         9.2       10.1         9.,        11.3        11.6        13.4       14.5       15.0        15.3         15.3
Cow culling rnte                        9.9        10.3        11.6        12,1        12.9        13          13         13         13          13           13             F-3
D0ll"       "                          16.6        17.0        18          18          18          18          18         18         18          18           18
Cxen        n                           16.6       17.0        20          23          26          29          29         29         29          29           29
Unit
Weidit 2./                    MEAT PROOUCTION (LIVEIGHT L8 '000)
Cull bulls liveweicgh        lb       650         520         585         bUb         5b                       585         585      585          585          585
Co*s                                  500       5.950       6.900       7.400       8.100       8.150        8.150       8.150    8.150        8.150        8.150             0
G>e,                                  750       2.475       3.225       4,125       5.175       6.525        7.275       7.275    7.275        7.275        7.275            Lo
Steers 12 months liveweight           250         525         550         625         675         750          80o         8oo      800          800          0oo
2 - 3 years    "       "       400        1.040      1.120       1.200       1.320      1J440         1,600       1.680    1.680        1.60o         1.680
3 - 4  "                       500        1.200      1,450         700         750         850          950       1.050    1.100        1.100         1.100
4 - 5  "                       570        1.311      1.425         969       1.140         285        2.735       4.275    4.674        5 18a         5.187
Total livewe_ght Produc."                 13,021     15.255      15.4504     17.745      12.SEt       22.096      23.815   24.264       24.77)       24.77
1/ Assuming constant liveweight at slaughter time throighOult the project.



Table 7.01
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMLNT PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Operations of the Gatr'oia Produce Marketing Board
('OOO Dalasis)
Item                                 1967/6&       1970/71    1971/72   1972/73    1973/71,
I. Profit and (Loss)
Groundnut trading                 (1,635)        10,150      7,047     6,007      35,362
Hand-picked selected nuts             -             -          -          268      (5I4)
Palm Kernels trading                  255          (5)        (192)        95        633
Rice trading                         -              272        749       (654)    (3,105)
Oil and cake trading                 -              -           97        390      1,307
Cotton trading                       -              -            -        18         153
II. Trading Profit (Loss)             (1,380)       10,417       7,701      6,124    33,836
III. Interest on investment and
miscellaneous revenue              395            632       1,098     1,641      1,496
IV. Sundry expenditure and
other costs                          510         1,363       1,252      2,580     3,093
V.  Net profit ( Loss)                (1,495)         9,686      7,5147     5,302    32,239
(I + III - IV)
VI. Reserve Account                    4,240        22,030      30,496    36,161    66,628
Source: Gambia Produce Marketing Board ( mimeo) and audited accounts.
December 17, 1975



THE GAMBLA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC VALUE OF GROUNDNUTS
(Per Metric ton; Constant 1975 Prices)
1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1985
C.I.F. Europe US$                                      431        411         374         345        326         430
DALAST  1/                                         819         781         711         656        619         817
Freight and Insurance 2/                              115         114         114         114        114         115
F.O.B. BANJUL                                       704         667         597         542        505         702
Port Handling 3/ )
i                           ~     ~    ~      ~    ~     ~     ~~8  8  8  8  8         8
Harbor Dues 3/ J
Value of Shelled nuts                                  696        658         589         534         497        694
In-Shell Equivalent (71% conv.)                        494        467         418         379         353        493
Decorticating and Transport Costs 3/                    27          27         27          27          27          27
Produce Inspection 3/                                    3           3          3           3           3           3
Handling and Transport to Mills  /                      25          25         25          25          25          25
Buying Agents/Traders Comm. 4,                          48          48         48          48          48          48
Farmgate Value  (D)                                    391         364        315         276         250         390    e
Average 1978-1980                                                             280                                         4
1/  At US$ 1 = Dl.90                                4/ Excludes profit margins.
2/ Rates quoted Nov. 1975.
3/  GPMB 1974 actual costs adjusted.                    December 17, 1975



Table 7.03
TEE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
Rice Price Structure, 1974/75
(D/kg)
Official Retail Price ( Banjul)                                0.59
Distributors Margin                                            0.04
Cost ex-GPMB Store                                             0.5 5
Actual c.i.f.; Banjul 1/                                       0.667
Subsidy 2/                                                     0).117 = D117/M.T.
Sources: GPMB axroofficial price list.
1/  Based onTable 1 4, the corresponding farmgate value wouLd be D 372/ M.T.
compared to the present D 352/M.T. whereas the retail price whould be about
,J O. 76tkg.
2/ This excludes storage and handling costs borne by GPMB.
Deeirber 17, 1975



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC VALUE OF PADDY
(Per Metric Ton; Contant 1975 Prices)
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980        1985
F.O.B. Bangkok US$                                        405         379         351        337         324         324
Less 10% Qual. Discount US$                              41          38          35         34          32          32
Sub-Total US$                                             364         341         316        303         292         292
DALASI .1/                                                688         644         597        573         552         552
Freight and Insurance 2/ (D)                              204         203        203         203         203         203
CIF BANJUL                                              892         847        800         776         758         758
Handling and Commissions 3/  12                            13          13          13         13          13          13
Harbor Dues  3/                 1
Landed BANJUL  (D)                                      905         860        813         789         771         771
Rice Storage and Marketing 4                               17          17          17         17          17          17
RETAIL VALUE (BANJUL)  (D)                                922         877         830        806         788         788
Paddy Equivalent (66% milling)                            609         579         548        532         520         520
Milling Transport and Storage of Paddy 3/                  88          88          88         88          88          88
Farmgate Value  (D)                                       521         491         460        444         432         432
Average 1978-1980. (1))                                                           445                                     F
1/ $1 = D1.90.                                                                                                            0
2/ November (75 rates: D2CC/MT + 0.005% of value including freight.
3/ GPMB 1974 actual costs adjusted.
4/ Excludes profit margir.s.



THE GAMBIA                              Table 7.05
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Producer Price a/ Groundnuts
D/M.T.
1976        1977         1978         1979         1980
C.I.F. Europe ($) 1'              470          484          473          470          475
D                 893          920          899          893          902
Freight, Insurance,
Plort Handling                    135          149          160          168          176
F.O.B. Banjul                     758          771          739          671          726
In-shell Equivalent (71%)         538          547          525          476          515
Buying and Processing Costs       105          115          123          130          136
Economic Price at Farmgate        433          432          402          346          379
Expected Producer Price 2/        364          401          431          452          475
a/ Current prices.
1/ IBRD price projections.
2/ 1975/76 producer price increased by expected local inflation rate.



Table 7.06
THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Producer Price - Paddy
D/MT in current prices
1976               1977             1978             1979            1980
FOB Bangkok   Cs)                     400                 444              445              459             471
Quality Discount (10%) $              360                 4oo              4o0              414             424
(D)                   684                760               762             786              805
Freight and Insurance                 224                 241              265              278             292
CIF Banjul                            908                1007             1027            io64             1097
Port Handling, Storage                  33                 36               39               41              43
Retail value                     941              0o4,              1066            1105            1i4o
Paddy Equivalent (66%)                621                 688              703              729             752
Milling,Storage,Transport of
Iaddy                 97                 106              114             120              126
Economic Price at Farmgate             524                582              589              609             626
Expected Producer Price                352                387              416              437             459



Table 8.01
THE GAM$IA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget - Model I
PYl           PY2            PY3            PY4            PY5
A.  Production (t)
a.  Groundnuts            5.9            9.0            9.8           10.5           11.3
b.  Rice                   4.7           6.8            6.8             7.8           7.8
c.  Sorghum               0.3            o.6            o.6            o.6            0.7
d.  Other Cereals         0.8            0.8            o.8            o .8           o.8
B.  Consumption (t) l/Total  5.9              5.9            5.9            5.9            5.9
a.  Rice                  4.8            4.5            4.5            4.5            4.4
b.  Sorghum               0.3            o.6             o.6           o.6            0.7
c.  Other Cereals         0.8            0.8            0.8            o.8            o.8
C.  Marketable Surplus (t)
a.  Grounidnuts           5.9            9.0            9.8           10.5           11.3
b.  Riee                  (0.1)          2.3            2.3            3.3             3.4
D.  Value of  Surplus (D)
a.  Groundnuts           2,147          3,609          4,223          4,746          5,367
b.  Rice                    (36)           890           956          1,442'         1,560
Total                2,091          4,499          5,179          6,188          6,927
E.  Expenditures
a.  Ox Implements                         545
b.  Ox Cart                               415
c.  Seeds and Dressing                    457            490            521            550
d.  Fertilizer                            238            316            398            449
e.  Supplementary Animal Feed              55             59             62             65
f.  Equipment Maintenarce                 106            114            12C0           125
Subtotal                -           1,816            979          1,101          1,189
Less Purchases on Credit:
a. Ox Equipment                           864
b. Seasonal Inputs                        695            806            919            999
Subtotal                          1,559            806            919           9229
NET CASH EXPENDITURES             -             257            173            182            190
CASH INCOME BEFORE CREDIT
REPAYMENT                   2,091          4,242          5,oo6          6,oo6          6,737
F.  Credit Repayment
Medium-term             -              -           378.42         378.42         378.42
Seasonal                -              -           799.00         927.(o       1,057.00
Subtotal              -              -         1.l't7.42      1305.42        1.4,15.42
NET CASH INCOME               2,091          4,242       3,028,58        4,699.5;8      5,301.58
CASH INCOME PER MANDAY        1.03                                                          2.19
CASH INCOME PER HA
CEREAL PRODUCTION PER CAPITA MUIT  215                                                       345
1/ At 250 kg of cereal per person.



Table 8.02
THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget - Model II
PYl            PY2            PY3            PY4            PY5
A. Production (t)
a.  Groundnuts               4.1            6.8            7.9            8.5           9.2
b.  Rice                     3.3            4.9            5.4            6.2            6.2
c.  Sorghum                 0.1            0.3            o.6            o.6            0.7
d.  Other Cereals           o.6            o.6            o.6            o.6            o.6
B.  Consumption (t, Total        4.8            4.8            4.8            4.8            4.8
a.  Rice                     4.1            3.9            3.6            3.6            3.5
b.  Sorghum                  0.1            0.3            o.6            o.6            0.7
c.  Other Cereals           o.6             o.6            o.6            o.6            0.6
C. Marketable Surplus (t)
a.  Groundnuts              4.1            6.8             7.9            8.5           9.2
b.  Rice                    (o.8)           1.0            1.8            2.6            2.7
D.  Value of' Surplus (D)
a.  Groundnuts             1,492          2,726           3,405          3,842         4,370
b.  Rice                     (282)           382            748          1,136          1,239
Total                  1,210          3,108          4,153          4,978          5,609
E. Expenditures
a.  Oxen Purchase              -             700             -              -              -
b.  Ox Implements              -             545             -              -              -
c.  Ox Cart                    -             415             -              -              -
d.  Seed + Dressing           -              3g7            399            423            446
e.  Fertilizer                 -             1 5            235            297            331
f.  Supplementary Animal Feed-                55             59             62             65
g.  Equipment Maintenarce    -               106            114            120            125
Subtotal                              2,322             807            902            967
Less Purchases on Credit:
a.  Oxen and Equipment         -          1,494              -              -              -
b.  Seasonal Inputs            -             502            624            720            777
Subtotal                  _           1,996            634             720            777
NET CASH EXPENDITURES              -             327            173            182            190
CASH INCOME BEFORE CREDIT
REPAYMENT                    1,210          2,781           3,980          4,796          5,419
F. Credit Repayment
Medium-term               -              -           654.35         654.35         654.35
Seasonal                  -              -           578.00         729.00         828.00
Subtotal                -              -         1,232.35       1,383.35       1,482.35
NET CASH INCOME                 1,210          2,781        2,747.65       3,412.65       3,936.65
CASH INCOME PER MANDAY         0.82                                                           2.01
CASH INCOME PER HA
CEREAL PRODUCTION PER         182                                                             340
CAPITA (kg)



THE GAMBIA                                  Table l.03
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
Farm Budget - Model III
PYl            PY2           PY3             PY4            PY5
A.  Production (t)
a.  Groundnuts                2.6            3.5           -<.8            4.2            4.5
b.  Rice                      2.2            2.7            2.7            3.1            3.1
c.  Sorghum                   0.2            0.3            0.3            o.4            0.4
d.  Other Cereals             0.4            0.4            0.4            o.4            0.4
B.  Consumption (t) (Total)       3.2            3.2            3.2            3.2            3.2
a.  Rice                      2.6            2.5            2.5            2.4            2.4
b.  Sorghum                   0.2            0.3            0.3            0.4            0.4
c.  Other Cereals             0.4            0.4           0.4            0.4            0.
C. Marketable Surplus (t)
a.  Groundnuts                2.6            3.5            3.8            4.2            4.5
b.  Rice                     (0.4)           0.2            0.2            0.7            0.7
J. Value of Surplus (D)
a.  Groundnuts              1,021           1,515          1,767          2,050          2,308
b.  Rice                      (141)            77             83            305            321
Total                     880          1,592          1,850          2,355          2,629
E. Expenditures
a.  Seed and Dressing           -             230            249            263            280
b.  Fertilizer                  -96                          128            160            18O
Subtotal                                 326            377            423            460
Less Purchases on Credit
Seasonal Inputs                               326            377            423            460
NET CASH EXPENDITURES               --                            -              _ 
CASH INCOME BEFORE CREDIT
REPAYMENT                        880          1,592          1,850          2,355          2,629
F.  Credit Repayments                            -               375            434            487
NET CASH INCOME                    880          1,592          1,475          1,921          2.142
CASH INCOME PER MANDAY            o.86                                                       1.73
CASH INCOME PER HA
CEREAL PRODU'CTION PER ADULT       200                                                        272
UNIT (kg)



THE GAMBIA                                   Table 8.o4
RUPAL LEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CASH FLOW
OO0 in current terms)
1976    197'!     1978    1979    1980         1981      1962       1983      19c8    3985
A. APPLICATICN OF FUINS
l.Project Costi/                     7576.o  4773.2   4667.          4 3 456.6  -      -         -          -
2.Fertilizer  costl'                    -      167.3    523.9   883.1   950.6          -         -          -         -        -
3.Post-Development Admn  istratior,3   -         -         -       -      617.8      648.6    681.0       715.1    750.8  7y8.L
4. Asset Renewal Ccst Q                 -        -         -        -     109.5      117.2    125.4       134.2    143.5   153.6
Total Applicaticns           7576.o 4940.5    5191.3  4339.7  1677.9          765.8    798.2       849.3    894.3   942.C
B. SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.External Financingl/               7576.o  4879.7   5060.1  4228.5        -          -         -          -         -        -
2.Farmers' Investments                  -       60.8    219.3   470.4   744.9          -         -          -         _        _
'.Fertilizer Subsidy (ex GPMB3)7/       -        -        83.6   183.8   176.6         -         -          -         -        -
8.Project-Induced Public Revenues
a. GOME Trading Profit (Loss)8/   -          36.3   (115.9)  (765.2) 0l114.2)    (635.5)   t82.4)      188.2    711.2  1349.2
b. Export Taxes on Groundnuts9/              63      207      339      449        565       666        746       836      936
c. Indirect Taxes on Farmers'
Increased Expenditures 10/       -       56.2    206.7   391.5   504.0         593.4    656.4       689       724.1   760.5
Tctal Sources                7576    5096.0   566o.8  4847.6   760.3          522.9   1040.0    1623.2   2273.,  L 5i.?
Surp'us (Leficit) Before Debt
Service                              -      155.5    469.5   619.1   b17.6)    t242.9)    241.8        773.9   1377    2103.7
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit)            -      155.5     625.0  1244.1   326.5         83.6    325.4    1099.3   2476.3  4580.o
C. DEBT SEPVICE
1.IDA creditl"/                        14.7    26.7       45.6    64.1    64.1        64.1      64.1       64.1      64.1    68'.1
2.BADEA Loan 3_i                       26.9    53.3       85.8   122.6   122.6       374.9    374.9       374.9    374.9   374.9
Total Debt Service                41.6    80.0    131.4   186.7   186.7         439.0    439         439       439      439
NET CASH FLOW                       (41.6)   75.5    338.1   432.4   hwo4.3)   (681.9)  (197.2)    334.9    938    1668.7
CUM CASH FLOW                       (41.6)   33.9    372.0   804.4  (299.9)   (981.8)  L179.0)    (888.1)    93.9  1758.6
1/   Including contingencies but excluding fertilizer cost.
2/   Total annual cost of fertilizer;after 1980 farmers will repay fertiliser at full cost and therefore financial impact
would be at worst neutral. Mission Estimate in Project File.
3/   Operations, maintenance and supplies cost are included for only extension, project management and adult numeracy.  All
cther costs, (e.g. livestock development, seed production, roads and cooperative development ) will generate revenues
at least equal to their operating cost and thus should be fully self-supporting after development period. Costs are
compounded at 5% after 1980.
4/ Asset renewal is also for equipment and vehicles purchased for extension, project management and adult numeracy only.
One quarter of all vehicles and equipment acquired in project period is renewed in each year after development period.
Costs are compounded at 7% per annum after 1980.
5/   Project costs less farmers' downpayments on oxen and equipment.
C    Fertilizer repayments (95% at 11i  interest) plus downpayments on oxen and equipment.
7/ From mission estimates (see Project File).
8/   rifference between expected farmgate price based on IBRD projections of world prices in current terms; and expected
producer price following government pclicy.
9/   At 7% of f.o.b. value based on IBRD projections of world price in current terms.
10/  12% of value of incremental  groundnut production at expected producer prices (footnote 6 above).
11/  Standard IDA terms.
12/  At 2% per annum over 25 years including 5 years'grace.



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calcul$tion
Year:                   1976/77        1977/78      1978/79        1979/80       1980/81        1981/82         1982/83        1983/84         1984/85       1985/86
ECONOMIC COSTS (DOOO)
Increme?ntal 3n-farep  labor                     -            19.5          39.2          63.5           66.5           66.5            66.5          66,.5            66.5          66.5
Extension and Training                         805.7         732.4        640.8          246.2          376.1         266.5           251.7          251.7           376.1         (617.3)
Livestock Development                        1265.7          719.9         465.2         445.6          850.9         383.6           383.6          383.6           850.9          (58.0)
Coop Development                              1935.1         723.2         267.1         267.1          496.3         284.2           267.1          267.1           496.3         (761.1)
Farm Inputs & Equipment (Credit)                  -          961.4       2032.5         1782.5          491.5         491.5           491.5          491.5           491.5          491.5
Crop Extraction Roads                          806.5         234.7         239.7         234.7          311.0         311.0           311.0          311.0           311.0          311.0
Project Management                            441.9          109.8         119.8         119.8          178.1          143.3          143.3          143.3           178.1           12.5
Seed Production                               1226.9         393.5        411.5          107.3          174.4         174.4           174.4          174.4           174.4         (144.1)
Other on-farm costs                                          118.1         312.0         396.7          284.7          284.7          284.7          284.7           284.7         284. 7
Total Economic Costs (DOOO)                   6481.8        4112.5        4527.8        366,.4 &         229.6        2405.7          2373.8        2373.8          3229.5        (414. 2)
ECONOMIC VALUE OF INCR. PRODUCTION (DOOO)
Groundnuts                                       -           327.3        1119.2        2021.3         2476.1        2780.4          2928.5         2928.5          2928.5         2928.5
Rice                                             -           313.7        1031.1        1903.6         2361.6        2631.7          2631.7         2631.7          2631.7         2631.7
Sorghum                                          -            18.8          86.0         153.8          198.6         217.0           231.2          231.2           231.2          231.2
Beef                                          (464.4)        263.9         640.9         979.2         1357.2        2639.0          3543.8         3732.3          3920.8         3920.8
Total Value of Incr. Prod. (DOOO)             (464.4)        923.7        2877.2        5054.9         6393.5        8262.1          9335.2         9523.6          9712.1         9712.1
NET BENEFITS   (D'OOO)                       (6946.2)       (3118.8)     (1650.6)        13viA          l6bi.9         56bb.4        69(1.4         7149.4         6482.6         3.0326.3
Economic Rate of Return: 23%
Sensitivity Analysis
BENEFITS
100%          90%        800 ROUGHT (See text for assurption-)
100%             23.1          19.1      11.1113.7
COSTS            110%             19.5          15.7        /     /
120%             16.3                  9_        / 
December 17. 19'5



'iXE GAMABIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT P(iEJEC
ECONOMIC RATE OF REITURN
ON FARM COSTS
A   LABOR                                        PYl                PY2                 PY3                PY4                PY5-10
1. Groundnuts
Cum. Area: Oxen and package 1/ (ha)        -                2333                 7506             12062                12305
Incremental Labor Input 2/ (Q00 m.d.)                      (137.6)            (442.8)             (709.9)             (725.9)
Cum. Area Confectionary Package 3/ (ha) -                    320                  518               716                  716
Incr. Labor Input (0O0 m.d.) 4/                              3.2                  5.2               7.2                  7.2
2. Upland PCice: Cum Area: Intensified
Package 3/ (ha) -                  552                 1672              2669                 2669
Incr. Labor Input (000 v.ed.  5/                            26.5                 80.3             128.1                128.1
3. Alluvial Rice: Cum. Area: Intensive
Package (ha)  -                 1374                 4194              6728                 6910
Incr. Labor Input (000 m.d.) 6/                            130.5               398.4              639.2                656.4
4. Sorghum: Cum Area: Improved Package (ha)-                    214                  695              3253                 1436
Incr. Labor Input (000 m.d) 7/                               3.4                 11.1              20.0                 22.9
Total Incremental Lator Input (000 m.d)                        26.0                 52.2              84.6                 88.7
Total Cost: on farm labor 8/ (Dboo)                            19.5                 39.2              63.5                 66.5
B. OTHER ON-FARM COSTS
Gum No. of Working Oxen (pairs                -                 391                 1235              1950                 1950
Supplementary Feed and Equipment Maint. Cost _93/
(Do00)              _                57.1                180.0             284.7                284.7
Downpayment on oxen and Equipment Purch.                       61.0                132.0             1]2.0                  _
TOTAL: Other on-farm Costs                          118.]                312.0              396.7               284.7
1/  Farm Models I and II             2/ -59  rzldays/ha                                                   3/ Model IT
4/  Same as traditional plus 10 more mandays for harvesting and input application.   5/ Difference between intensified (218 m.d) and
traditicanal (170 m.d).
6/  Difference between intensified (242 m.d) and traditional ( 147 m.d).   7/ Improved (70 m.d) less trad.iticnal ( 5L m.d).
8/  At D 0.75 per manday based on hired agricultural labor wages during peak season.                                                                        0
9/  Supplementary feed is D50 per pair per annum and equipment maintenance is Dp6/year ( See Farm Budgets).
December 17, 1973



Additional Reports and Data Related to the Project Available in The Bank
(Western Africa Records Station, Room F 336)
A.    Project
1.  FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program: Report No. 33/75 GAM 2, August 6, 1975
(preparation report)
2. GAMBIA - Rural Development Project/Detailed Cost Tables
(appendix 5 Tables 2 - 11 on   pages)
3.  GAMBIA Produce Marketing Board  (GPMB): Annual Reports
4.  GPMB: Buying Schedule 1974/75 and Rice Marketing 1974/75
5.  GAMBIA - Rural Development Project - Official agricultural commodity
price schedules and Fertilizer Cost and Subsidy Calculations
6. GPMB - Report on Groundnut Marketing
7.  GAMBIA - Rural Development Project : Reporting Requirements
8. GAMBIA - Rural Development Project: Details of Project Area.
B.    Sector
1. UK Ministry of Overseas Development: "A Study of the Land Resources of
The Gambia" in 5 volumes;
C.    Country, General
1. Republic of The Gambia: Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development
1975-1980 (undated).



