Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4558
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TIIE GAMBIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 644-GM)
June 16, 1983
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA     -    Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
CS        -    Cooperative Societies
GCDB      -    Gambia Cooperative Development Bank
GCU       -    Gambia Cooperative Union
GPMB      -    Gambia Produce Marketing Board
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MFC       -    Mixed Farming Center
PCC       -    Project Coordinating Committee
PMU       -    Project Management Unit
PPMU      -    Project Planning and Management Unit
SEMU      -    Socio Economic Monitoring Unit
SMU       -    Seed Multiplication Unit
WARDA     -    West Africa Rice Development Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THE GAMBIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 644-GM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .........  ...............................................                  i
Basic Data Sheet ..                                                                ii
Highlights .iii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I. PROJECT SUMMARY.                                                           1
II. MAIN ISSUES.                                                               3
A. Failure to Adhere to Covenants in the Development
Credit Agreement.                                                3
B. Building Costs.                                                      5
C. Project Organization.                                                5
D. The Need to Sustain Developmental Activities Beyond
the Project Period.                                              6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. Background.                                                                8
II.  Project Formulation and Appraisal.                                        8
III. Troject Implementat:.on .11
IV. Project Costs and Financing .21
V. Project Impact .22
VI. Economic Analysis .23
VII.   Institutional Performance and Development .26
VIII. Bank Performance .29
IX. Conclusions .31
Tables
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THE GAMBIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 644-GM)
PREFACE
This is a project performance audit report on The Gambia Rural
Development Project, for which Credit 644-GM in the amount of US$4.1 miljion
was approved in June 1976.  The Credit was closed in March 1982, six montihs
after the original closing date.   The final disbursement was made in July
1982.
The audit report consists of a project performance audit memorandum
(PPAM) prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Proiect
Completion Report (PCR) dated September 13, 1982. The PCR was prepared by -he
Western Africa Regional Office based on a country visit in May 1982.  The
audit memorandum is based on a review of the Appraisal Report (1089a-GM) dated
June 2, 1976, the President's Report (P-1822a-GM) of June 3, 1976 and the
Credit Agreement dated July 19, 1976.   Correspondence with the Borrower and
internal Bank memoranda on project issues, as contained  in relevant Bank
files, as well as certain documentation related to the follow-on project,
currently being appraised, have also been studied. Bank staff associated with
the project have also been interviewed.  An OED mission visited The Gambia
during December 1982.   Discussions were held  in Banjul with officials from
the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Finance and Trade,
Economic Planning and Industrial Development, and with The Gambia Cooperative
Union and The Gambia Produce Marketing Board.  A field trip was made to the
agricultural stations at Jenoi and Sapu.
The PPAM agrees with most of the conclusions and salient features
of the PCR.  However, the PPAM stresses that the Government of The Gambia is
at present having great difficulty sustaining the developmental activities
started under the project, due mainly to the current economic and finan-
cial situation.   The PPAM also elaborates on the uncertainty of the future
economic benefits, the lack of compliance in the covenants, reasons for cost
overruns, and project organization due to their relevance to this project as
well as the follow-on project and similar projects which may be supported by
Bank/IDA financing.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments;
however none have been received.  A copy of the draft report was also sent to
each of the cofinancers.  Comments received from UK-ODA have been taken into
account in this report.
The assistance provided by the Government of The Gambia and offi-
cials of The Gambia Produce Marketing Board and The Gambia Cooperative
Union is gratefully acknowledged.



i
I



PROJECT PERFORYANCE A11DIT REPORT
THE GAMBIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 644-GM)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA                                             Appraisal                 Actual or                   Actual as % of
Expectations            Current Estimate             Appraisal Estimate
Project Costs (US$ million)                                      11.7                     15.9                            136
Credit Amount (US$ million)                                       4.1                      4.1                            100
Cofinancing:
United Kingdom (US$ million)                                4.1                      7.1                            173
Arab Bank for Economic Development - Africa
(US$ million)                                             3.3                      4.3                            131
Date Physical Components Completed                            03/31/81                 09/30/81
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                      27                        7                               26
Institutional Perfotmance (%)                                   good                      fair
Agronomic Performance - Groundnuts (kg/ha)                      1,300                    1,117                             86
Agronomic Performance - Rice (kg/ha)                            1,233                    1,027                             83
Number of Beneficiaries                                       48,000                    60,000                            125
PROJECT DATES                                                                                                  Actual or
Original Plan              Revisions             Estimated Actual
Date Board Approval                                            06/15/76                    -                     06/15/76
Credit Agreement Date                                          07/19/70                    -                     07/19/76
Effectiveness Date                                            11/16/76                     -                     11/24/76
Closing Date                                                  09/30/81                03/31/82                   03/31/82
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY77        FY78         FY79        FY80         FY81
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)                                 .060       1,050        2,330       3,750        4,100
Actual (US$ million)                                             .872       2,087        2,900       3,300        4,100
Actual as x of Estimate                                         1,453          199         125           88         100
Date of Final Disbursement: 07/12/82
MISSION DATA
Date        No. of    Mandays    Specializations           Performance                Types of
Mission                   (Month/Year)   Persons   in Field         Represented/b            Rating/d    Trend/e   Probleme/f
Identification                      01/75
Preparation                         03/75           7La                      e,a,l,i,ed
Appraisal                           10/75           5           150           a,f,e,ed
Total                                                        150
Supervision I                       08/76           1             9                f                 I            I
Supervision II                      12/76           1             9                a                 1            1
Supervision III                     06/77           1             8                a                 I            1
Supervision IV                      01/78           1            12                a                 1            1
Supervision V                       04/78           2            19                f                 I            I
Supervision VI                      01/79           1            15                a                 2            2          M,F
Supervision VII                     09/79           2            16               a,f                3            2         F,M,P
Supervision VIII                    01/80           2            18               a,f                3            1          M,P
Supervision IX                      03/80           1            11                a                 -            -           -
Supervision X                       06/80           1            10               a,e                3            1         F,M,P
Supervision XI                      10/80           1            12               a,e                3            1         F,M,P
Supervision XII                     06/81           2            20               a,e                3            1         F,M,P
Supervision XIII                    09/81            /g           9              acs,a               3            1         F,M,P
Supervision XIV                     02/82           lLg          10              acs,a               3            1         F,M,P
Total                                                     178
OTRER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                      Government of the Gambia
Executing Agencies                            Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Fiscal Year                                   July I to June 30
Name of Currency (abbreviation)    -           Dalasi (D)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average               -      US$1.00 - D1.9
Completion Year Average              -      US$1.00 - D2,0
Follow-on Project/h
Name'                                      Agricultural Development Project II
/a    5 FAO; 1 RMWA; 1 ODA.
7    e = economist; f - financial analyst; a - agriculturist; ed - education specialist;
1 = livestock specialist; i   irrigation engineer; acs - agricultural credit specialist.
/c   3  Bank, 1  ODA, liaision with education specialist.
7T    1 = problem free; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems.
7e   1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3   deteriorating.
/f   F = Financial; M - Managerial; T - technical; P - Political; 0 - Other.
7g   1 ODA.
lh   Appraisal not yet completed.






- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THE GAMBIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 644-GM)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Rural Development Project aimed to develop crop and livestock
production in the three administrative divisions in the western part of The
Gambia, which together included about one half of the country-s rural popu-
lation.   Attention was concentrated primarily on production of groundnuts,
rice and beef cattle.   The project was designed to increase crop production
through the provision of improved agricultural extension and training, the
supply of farm inputs under a co-operative credit program, increased seed
production, and development of crop extraction roads.   Livestock production
was to be promoted through improved veterinary services and with better
livestock marketing facilities.  The project included provision for prepara-
tion of a follow-on project. The project was co-financed by the United
Kingdom and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa.
The project has developed much of the infrastructure on which long
term agricultural development can be based. The project buildings, the
network of extension facilities, the training centre and the seed production
and crop trials station at Sapu will be of substantial long term benefit for
agricultural development if they can be maintained fully operational.   How-
ever, now that IDA support for RDP has come to an end, Government has found it
impossible to provide adequate recurrent finance and many project activities
have come to a standstill. Preparation of a follow-on project has been
completed and this is currently being appraised.  But, there will have been a
significant gap between the two phases of the project.
The Economic Rate of Return was re-estimated in the PCR to be
about 7% (based on quantifiable parameters) compared with 27% expected at
appraisal.   The PCR suggests that the Economic Rate of Return would be in
excess of 10% if all benefits could be measured. Thus the project was
worth doing (PCR, para.  48).   The PPAM disagrees.   Unless, Government is
able to provide the recurrent financial  support needed to maintain proj-
ect activities, it will not be possible to realize the potential benefits
identified in the PCR.
It was decided that all project buildings should be constructed
under one contract.   As there was only one locally established contractor
large enough to undertake this work, the project negotiated directly with this
firm.  It would have been better if the construction work had been split into
several contracts and smaller contractors had bid for the work in a more
competitive environment.   Government appointed a Commission of Enquiry
which was extremely critical of the contracting procedures adopted (PPAM,
para. 14).



- iv -
Other lessons learned are: a strong stand by the Bank on compliance
with covenants would have improved project implementation and its benefits
(PPAM, para. 13), and the assumption of non-designated roles by project
officials can result in conflict and implementation problems (PPAM, paras. 15
and 16).



- 1 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
THE GAMBIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 644-GM)
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
1.        The Rural Development Project  (RDP) was the Bank Group's second
project designed to assist rural development in The Gambia.  The first proj-
ect was the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 333-GM), which supported
irrigated rice production in the MacCarthy Island Division.  This project was
completed in 1976 (OED Report No. 1724 dated September 1977).
2.        RDP was prepared by an FAO/CP mission with assistance from the
Bank's Resident Mission in West Africa. The project was appraised in November
1975 and the Credit became effective in November 1976.
3.        Total project cost was estimated at appraisal to amount to US$11.7
million (Dalasis 22 million).   This was to be financed through an IDA Credit
of US$4.1 million, a grant equivalent to another US$ 4.1 million from the
U.K., a Credit of US$3.3 million from the Arab Bank for Economic Develop-
ment in Africa (BADEA), and farmers' contributions of US$0.2 million.
4.        The project aimed to increase production of both crops and live-
stock.   The principal crops were groundnuts, rice and sorghum.   Production
was to be increased through assisting 48,000 farmers to adopt higher yielding
methods of husbandry.   The project included credit for seasonal inputs and
ox cultivation, improved agricultural 'extension, training and research,
increased seed production, and project management.   Livestock production was
to be increased through a vaccination program, improved livestock and veteri-
nary services and better livestock marketing.
5.        Actual project costs amounted to US$15.9 million, 36% higher than
the appraisal estimate  (43% higher when expressed in Dalasis).   The main
reasons for this cost overrun were that project buildings proved to be much
more expensive to construct than estimated at appraisal due to the procurement
procedures used for this non-IDA financed component, and because revolving
funds were not established to finance seed production and vaccinations.  The
U.K. financed the cost overrun for buildings while Government financed local
cost overruns.
6.        During the project period, several unexpected droughts had adverse
effects on production and have made it difficult to judge the likely long-term
impact of the project on production. However, it is obvious that incremental
crop production was overestimated at appraisal.   Actual experience with the
project indicates that the project will have significant impact on groundnut
production, albeit lower than estimated at appraisal.  In the case of rice,
incremental benefits are expected to be minimal, while no benefits will be
obtained for sorghum because the improved variety available for distribution
has proved unacceptable to farmers.  For livestock, also, actual incremental
benefits are expected to be significantly below appraisal estimates.



- 2 -
7.        Project  implementation has been hampered  by several  factors.
The project should have been carried out by different departments within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, by several parastatal agen-
cies, and by co-operative societies and the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU).
In practice, most of these agencies did not demonstrate adequate commitment
to the project.  Partly for this reason, the expatriate project coordinator,
who was expected to act in an advisory role, attempted to carry out many
project activities directly.   Although, initially, he achieved some success
in meeting project targets, this approach created many problems and in
some cases discouraged further the agencies who should have been implementing
the project.
8.        The  project-s  impact  was  also  unfavorably affected  by problems
concerned with the supply of farm inputs.   The groundnut seeds supplied to
farmers were often of poor quality, with low germination, while sometimes
arriving late.   Ox cultivation equipment, which was supplied on credit, was
generally regarded highly by farmers.   However,  the project insisted that
farmers  should purchase  a complete package of equipment,  even though all
farmers did not need each item.  Consequently, some of the equipment supplied
under the project was not fully utilized.
9.        Except during the early part of the project period,  the project
aczcounts have not been satisfactory. They have not been completed on time and
the auditors have been severely critical on a number of points, including the
project's failure to keep a proper record of assets purchased.   Partly for
this reason, and also because of the apparent ease with which the project was
able to operate without regard for normal Government procedures, a Commission
of Enquiry was appointed in 1979 to examine the project.   This commission,
whose report was published two years later, was extremely critical of the
project, especially of the role assumed by the project coordinator and the
high proportion of project funds used for construction of buildings.  During
the course of its operations, the Commission impounded the project accounts
for about two years which delayed considerably the finalization and audit of
the accounts and further aggravated the project-s operational problems.
10.       The project has also failed to adhere to rnany of the Covenants in
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA):   Project progress reports were not
submitted regularly; no annual work programs or schedules for maintenance of
machinery and equipment were submitted to IDA.   There has not been regular
consultation about crop and farm input pricing policy, and a revolving fund
was not established for the farm credit programa in the way intended.
11.       Despite these problems, the project has developed the foundations
and much of the infrastructure on which long-term agricultural development
can be based.   The project buildings,  the network of extension facilities,
the training center and the seed production and crop trials station at Sapu
will be of substantial long-term benefit for agricultural development if they
can be maintained in a fully operational condition. However, now that



- 3 -
IDA support for RDP has come to an end and the second phase project (cur-
rently being appraised) has not yet become effective, 'Government has found
it impossible to provide sufficient recurrent finance, and many project
facilities have almost come to a standstill.l/
12.       The PCR estimates that the project will show an economic rate
of return of about 7%, based on quantifiable parameters, compared with
27% estimated at appraisal.   If the non-quantifiable benefits could be
measured, the PCR suggests that the rate of return would probably be in excess
of 10%.  Thus the project was worth doing (PCR, para. 48).  The PPAM disagrees
with this assessment, for if Government is unable to sustain project activi-
ties, for lack of sufficient recurrent finance, it will not be possible
to realize the potential benefits identified in the PCR.
II. MAIN ISSUES
A.   Failure to Adhere to Covenants in the Credit Agreement
13.       There has been widespread failure to adhere to Covenants in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of this project. Although this problem was
discussed thoroughly with Government during supervision missions, especially
towards the latter stages of the project, the Bank did not take a firm stand
on these issues or discuss them at a sufficiently high level within the
Government.   The audit feels that each of these covenants was necessary for
efficient project implementation.   The principal covenants which were not
observed properly were as follows:
(a)  The project was expected to submit audited accounts to IDA promptly
after the end of each financial year (DCA, para. 4.07).  In prac-
tice, the accounts have always been late and the auditors have
been very critical of accounting procedures.   Project accounting
was made difficult because responsibility for incurring expenditures
rested with  several  different  implementing  agencies,  while  the
project accounts were kept in the project coordinator-s office.
This problem was aggravated when the Commission of Enquiry im-
pounded the project accounts for about two years.   Nevertheless,
the project has never employed a suitably qualified and experi-
enced accountant despite supervision mission recommendations, and
supervision missions should have been more insistent that one be
recruited.
(b)  The project has not submitted regular quarterly progress reports
to IDA (DCA, para. 4.09).
(c)  There have not been annual consultations between IDA and&Government
each year concerning pricing policy for agricultural products and
farm inputs (DCA, para. 4.06).   Pricing policy for crops and farm
1/   ODA has just agreed to provide some financial support to help bridge
the gap between RDP and the second phase project.



- 4 -
inputs  must  have  significant  impact  on  project  implementation,
although it is recognized that this is a difficult subject with
significant political implications.   Certain pricing policies
of relevance to the project have been of questionable merit in
recent years. For example, Government has accumulated large finan-
cial surpluses through the groundnut price structure and has
paid farmers a relatively low proportion of the value of the crop
- this is no longer true today because world groundnut prices have
fallen.   In the audit-s view, it would have been better to have
encouraged producers through paying them a higher price for their
groundnuts.  However, the audit recognizes that the revenue obtained
from the groundnut price structure was an important source of
Government revenue, and it may have been difficult for Government
to have obtained this from an alternative source.  Another pricing
issue concerns fertilizer  subsidies.   In the last few years,
fertilizer prices have been subsidized as much as 75%, while
seasonal credit has been made available to meet the remaining 25%.
The combination of a very high rate of subsidy and seasonal credit
seem unjustified. In order to encourage farmers to make good use of
fertilizers, they should make a more significant contribution to the
cost.1/
(d)  The DCA required that the project submit to IDA each year a schedule
for the maintenance of all plant, equipment and vehicles (DCA, para.
4.02).   This has never been done, and maintenance of project ve-
hicles  has  been unsatisfactory.    The great majority of project
vehicles are due for replacement and are no longer in serviceable
condition.
(e)  The DCA required that GCU should establish a revolving fund for
the purpose of providing seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers
(DCA, para. 3.04) and that 'GCU should not extend credit to any
cooperative society which has failed to repay 95% of the value of
loans due and payable  (DCA, para.  4.24).   These conditions have
not been adhered to. GCU is now in an extremely serious financial
position, although the audit recognizes that this is not due pri-
marily to project activities.   The re-organization and financial
rehabilitation of GCU and the cooperatives is a main objective of
the Phase II project which has just been appraised.
(f)  The DCA required that the project should submit annual work pro-
grams (DCA, para. 4.01) and annual estimates of departmental expen-
ditures (DCA, para. 3.01) to IDA. This has not been done. If these
conditions had been adhered to, this would have helped to identify
problems at an earlier stage and thus facilitate taking remedial
action. For example, if at the beginning of the project period the
work programs and budgets had shown that the project intended to
implement the farm credit program directly, not through GCU, this
would have drawn attention to this faulty procedure and thus would
have helped to prevent it being implemented.
1/   During appraisal of Phase Two, Government is being encouraged to reduce
the extent of the fertilizer subsidy.



-5-
B.   Building Costs
14.       The cost overrun on project buildings was 228% compared with the
appraisal estimates.  This has been severely criticized by the Commission of
Enquiry appointed to examine the project.   The audit has not been able to
obtain an adequate explanation for this cost overrun and it is not clear to
what extent the cost overrun was due to costs being underestimated at apprais-
al or to actual costs being excessive.  As ODA funded this contract, the Bank
was not involved in the contract negotiations.   The audit believes that it
would have been better if the contract for this work had been awarded in a
more competitive environment. At the beginning of the project period, it was
decided that all buildings should be constructed under one contract.  While
several contractors were asked to prequalify, only one locally established
contractor was willing to bid for the whole contract. It was therefore
decided to negotiate directly with this single contractor. The audit feels it
would have been better to have allowed smaller local contractors to bid for
part of the work.  As the construction program involved erecting many small
buildings at widely scattered locations, several small contractors could
probably have done the work more efficiently than one large contractor. This
would have involved more competition and would have provided encouragement to
small local contractors.   This approach has worked successfully under the
First Education Project in The Gambia (Credit 792-GM).
C.   Project Organization
15.       The project was designed to be implemented through the normal
machinery of Government in the different departments of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) and the concerned parastatal agen-
cies.   All implementing agencies, together with the Ministries of Finance
and Economic Planning, were to be represented on a Project Coordinating
Committee which would meet regularly to ensure adequate coordination between
participating agencies.   A project coordinator was to be appointed, respon-
sible to the permanent secretary, MANR.  The coordinator would prepare proj-
ect estimates and work programs, prepare tenders, monitor project progress
and prepare claims for reimbursement.  He was to act as a catalyst for
development under the project but not implement project activities directly.
While this organizational structure was correct, it was unrealistic to expect
that such a large number of different agencies would be able to coordinate
their activities efficiently; the project included agricultural extension,
training and research, seed production, crop marketing, credit and input
supply, cooperatives, livestock marketing, veterinary services, feeder roads,
project monitoring, special studies and adult numeracy. In the audit-s view,
it would have been better to have limited the scope of the project (perhaps to
crop production) in order to facilitate implementation.
16.       In practice, the project was not implemented in the way intended.
The project coordinator was able to operate almost independently of the
departments and agencies which should have been responsible for implemen-
tation. The project came to be viewed as an independent unit which was
not subject to the routine controls and procedures of a Government depart-
ment.  The Bank shares responsibility for not recognizing this problem at an
earlier stage in the project.



- 6 -
D.   The Need to Sustain Developmental Activities Beyond the
Project Period
17.       Now that RDP has been completed and IDA funds are no longer avail-
able, many project activities have almost come to a standstill, for Government
has not been able to meet project recurrent costs.  For example, at the main
crop research and seed production station at Sapu, crop trials have not been
harvested properly this year because funds were not available to pay wages to
laborers.  None of the project vehicles at Sapu are presently operational, for
money was not available to replace or repair vehicles and fuel supplies are
extremely limited.   Even simple equipment, such as electric balances in the
seeds laboratory, could not be operated because fuel has not been available
for generating electricity.    The financial  situation will  improve in the
future, for a second phase project is being appraised by IDA at present and
this may become effective within the next 12 months.   ODA has also agreed
recently to provide some funds to help br:Ldge the gap between the two proj-
ects.   However,  it is clear that the overambitious design of the RDP, the
intermittent nature of donor financial support, and the Government's inability
to assume recurrent cost obligations has had most unfortunate consequences.
In the audits view, it would be more berLeficial if donor support could be
provided on an uninterrupted basis over a longer period and projects were
designed in a way which facilitated Government's eventual assumption of
recurrent costs. This does not necessarily imply that individual phases of a
project should be longer than the present average of about 5 years.   But a
positive effort should be made to ensure that there are not significant gaps
between different phases.   In the case of this particular project in The
Gambia, the audit also feels it would have been better if the first phase of
the project had been designed more as a pilot project, under which the appli-
cability of crop technologies under farm conditions would have been tested and
institution building would have been developed, with full scale development
taking place at a later stage.
18.       One example of the consequences of this inappropriate project design
concerns project vehicles.   Under RDP most project vehicles were purchased
early in the project period, and they were poorly maintained and had a short
working life.   Thus, they need replacement now at a time when Government is
least able to afford this.  The audit report for the First Coffee and Cocoa
Project in Togo (currently under preparation) has confirmed that well main-
tained vehicles can have a useful life of up to 200,000 km.



THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 644-CM)
Project Completion Report
September 13, 1982
Western Africa Region






- 8 -
THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Cr. 644-GM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I - BACKGROUND
1.        The Rural Development Project was the Bank Group's second operation
in the ruraal sector. The first project was the Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 333-GM) which concentrated on irrigated rice production in
the MacCarthy Island Division (MID) between 1973-1976. A Project Completion
Report was prepared on May 20, 1977 and a Project Performance Audit Report
(No. 1724) on September 21, 1977. The PPAR concluded that there was modest
success in terms of production and rate of return indicators. Credit 333-GM
provided funds for the preparation of an Integrated Agricultural Development
Project in MID, but this was changed at appraisal to the Rural Development
Project (RDP), located in the three Western Administrative Divisions.
2.        RDP was appraised in November 1975; Credit 644-GM was negotiated
in May 1976 and approved by the Board on June 15, 1976. The Credit was signed
on July 19, 1976, and declared effective on November 24, 1976. The project
was closed on March 31, 1982, and final disbursement was made on July 12, 1982.
3.        This Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared from several
sources of information: project files, Staff Appraisal Report, Development
Credit Agreement, supervision mission reports, and working papers on the
Agricultural Development Project II produced in The Gambia as part of the
preparation of a follow-up project. Government prepared working papers for
the PCR and an assessment of the project's ERR was calculated by the Ministry
of Agriculture's Planning Unit in consultation with the office of the Project
Coordinator.
II - PROJECT FORMULATION AND APPRAISAL
A.   Identification
4.        The Resident Mission West Africa (RMWA) identified an Agricultural
Development Project in January 1975. The principle crops would be groundnuts,
rice, millet and sorghum which would be promoted through improved seed,
fertilizer and animal traction. There would be some expansion of irrigated
rice. Livestock development would be promoted through demonstration of
improved husbandry, breeding stations, and the provision of village wells with
credit available for oxen and fattening programs. The three year project was
estimated to cost about US$10 million. Identified implementation problem
areas were: unification of extension services, inexperienced staff, the need
for a longer development period than three years, marketing and pricing
policies, and weaknesses within the cooperative movement.



-9-
B.   Preparation
5.        In March 1975, a FAO/CP preparation mission visited the Gambia.  The
mnission was assisted by an RMWA livestock specialist, the ADP project manager,
and staff from the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA). There
was some discussion between the team, the Bank and ODA (a probable cofinancing
'source), on the need for a project manager or a project coordinator, an issue
which subsequently became significant (paras. 14 and 57). The FAO/CP Prepara-
tion Report was sent to the Bank on August 8, 1975. It envisaged a total cost
of US$12.8 million with a foreign exchange component of US$8.4 million (66%).
The proposed project followed broadly the recommendations of the identifica-
tion mission. In addition, it included horticulture; expansion of proposed
irrigation by 1,000 ha; improvement of N'dama cattle; the promotion of
extension services and a functional literacy campaign. Unification of exten-
sion services was proposed but did not receive Government support. Self-
sufficiency in cereals rather than solely rice was identified as being more
realistic. The Bank identified the following issues: (a) problems of in-
creased salinity if irrigated rice was expanded beyond about 1,400 ha;
(b) difficulty in obtaining unified support by all Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR) departments through a Project Coordinating
Committee; an integrated field extension service was felt to be premature and
likely to be resisted by department heads, therefore, coordination only would
be targeted in the first stage; (c) the need for a reduction in and ultimate
removal of fertilizer subsidies; and (d) Government pricing policies under
which the groundnut farmer was heavily subsidising national development.
C.   Appraisal
15.       Appraisal took place during October/November 1975.  An agricultural
credit specialist was not included in the team despite the weakness in the
cooperative movement identified by the RMWA mission in 1975 (para 4).
'7.       The proposed project, over a four year period, aimed to increase
c-ereal and cash crop production and livestock husbandry of about 48,000 people,
living in 65 selected villages (2,200 compounds) in the three Western Admin-
istrative Divisions of Western, Lower River and North Bank. Increased
production would be achieved through the introduction of proven package
programs for crop production supported by better coordinated and strengthened
government services and improved communications and marketing. The principal
objectives and components of the project would be:
(a) strengthening of the agricultural extension service by upgrading
Government-operated centers for extension activity and farmer
training;
(b)  improving livestock production by expanding animal health compaigns
through the provision of vaccines, drugs, equipment, transport and
training for field staff; and improving livestock marketing through
the construction of a limited number of cattle markets, stock routes
and holding grounds;



- 10 -
(c) supplying farming inputs as credit in kind to farmers (fertilizers,
seed, draught oxen and implements) through a strengthened and better
trained cooperative structure, and the establishment of a Seed
Multiplication Unit to ensure seed supplies to farmers;
(d) improving crop marketing through the construction and improvement of
cooperatively owned produce markets and the development of a limited
number of crop extraction roads;
(e) aiding the introduction of improved agricultural practices to
illiterate farmers through a pilot functional numeracy program;
(f) ensuring coordination of project implementation by providing a
Project coordinator and supporting staff; and
(g) providing funds for the preparation of a second phase agricultural
project; for a feasibility study of developing a potential rice
growing area, the Jakhaly Swamp; and for a study to improve ground-
nut marketing.
8.        The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources through the Permanent Secretary, who would be assisted by a
Project Coordinator working from the Ministry's Planning Unit. A Project
Coordinating Committee would be established under the chairmanship of the
Permanent Secretary MANR, and would include representatives from the Mini-
stries of Finance and Economic Planning. Heads of concerned Departments of
MANR would be responsible for implementation of those project components which
affect their departments.
9.        Total project costs, excluding duties and taxes was estimated at
US$11.7 million, (D22.2 million) of which foreign expenditures was US$6.9
million or 60 percent. Physical and price contingencies accounted for $1.7
million or 17 percent of base cost. The weighted average economic rate of
return for the project as a whole was estimated at 27 percent.
10.       The proposed IDA credit would be complemented by parallel financing
from a British Government grant and from a BADEA loan. 1/ Farmers who
would be beneficiaries of the project would also contribute in the form of
1/   During Project implementation, additional Funds were received from The
European Economic Commission in the form of a grant of approximately
US$1.2 million for the provision of oxen, implements and seed to farmers.
Over 75% of this grant has been committed so far.



- 11 -
down payment for oxen and equipment. The financing plan was as follows: 1/
IDA          US$4.1 million (standard terms)
UK (ODA)     US$4.1 million (US$3.0 million grant plus technical
assistance grant US$1.1 million)
BADEA        US$3.3 million (2% loan over 20 years with 5 years grace)
Farmers      US$0.2 million (10% downpayment on oxen and equipment
given on credit)
Total        US$11.7 million
11.       Negotiations were held in May 1976.  The only major issue was the
rate of interest to ultimate beneficiaries. The Bank proposed: Central Bank
to Gambia Cooperative Development Bank (GCDB) 5%; GCDB to Gambia Cooperative
Union (GCU) 7%; GCU to primary cooperative societies (CS) 10%; CS to farmers
15%. It was agreed to omit GCDB and to reduce charges to: 3%; 7% and 11%
respectively. It was also agreed to appoint a Gambian Project Officer to
assist the expatriate Project Coordinator.
12.       The project was approved by the Board on June 15, 1976, signed
on July 19, 1976, and declared effective on November 24, 1976.
III - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
13.       Appointment of Project Coordinator.  The Project Coordinator arrived
on July 28, 1976, 9 days after the signing of the IDA credit and 2 weeks
before the UK grant was signed under which he was funded. This prompt action
contributed much towards the rapid completion of the infrastructural build-
up stage planned under the project to be carried out over the first eighteen
months of project life.
14.       A number of key administrative issues were resolved before the end
of 1976:
-    a Gambian project officer was appointed in September 1976;
-    it was agreed that the proposed acccunting study should be commenced;
-    independent auditors were appointed with the agreement of the
Auditor General, Accountant General, and Ministry of Finance and
Trade;
1/   In the Appraisal Report, project financing arrangements consisted of IDA,
UK (ODA), BADEA, and farmers contributions, with no direct contribution
from The Gambian Government. However, during project implementation,
Government and farmers made a total contribution of D 1.3 million.



- 12 -
a Gambian project accountant was appointed:
an expatriate manager, funded by the Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation was appointed to the Livestock Marketing Board: and
the expatriate upland crops agronomist arrived late October, and
staff were identified for the posts of irrigation agronomist and
senior seeds officer.
15.       Building and Civil Works Program.  The project development plan
provided for a sizeable building program to be completed within the first
18 months of project life. This component, therefore, became the principle
start-up focus. The UK grant funded the building program for which contractors
were necessary since the Public Works Department was unable to carry out the
work. A UK firm of international repute which had operated intensively and
successfully in Banjul for some years was awarded the contract in November
1976 under local tender procedures. Of the six local contractors who had also
bid, none was prepared to undertake the entire contract. On September 2, 1976
a UK firm of engineering consultants was appointed to supervise the contractors.
The buildings comprised mostly residential houses, mixed farming centers,
offices, seed testing laboratories, veterinary laboratories, animal treatment
house, and improvements to cooperative produce markets.
16.       There was a cost overrun of about 228% on the building and civil
works costs attributable partly to general cost increases and partly to the
cost of using supervisory consultants not provided for in the credit. The
cost of the infrastructure could probably have been reduced if it had been
done through ICB or if it had been broken down into smaller packages for local
tender. ODA met this cost overrun from supplementary finances.
Climatic Factors:
17.       In The Gambian environment there is usually one bad year in five.
During the project period there was one good year followed by two bad years.
Crop production, mainly rainfed, is limited to the short 3-6 months rainy
season and is dominated by groundnuts. Poor rains in recent years has adversely
affected groundnut production. In 1979 (the project's first production year),
the rains were unevenly distributed and although about 86% of normal was
recorded, there were much lower percentages in some areas. The worst year
was 1980, when rainfall was badly distributed and total rainfall was only
53-56% of normal in the West of the country, 63-75% in mid West and East, and
approaching normal (95%) in Sapu in MacCarthy Island Division. There was a
prolonged dry spell in September. In 1981, rainfall was much better distri-
buted, but only 73% of normal rainfall fell across the country. This is
reflected in groundnut purchases by The Gambia Produce Marketing Board, over
the past eight years, which has been around 130,000 tons in shell nuts up to
1978/79, except for a sudden fall to 84,000 tonnes in 1977/78.  Since 1978/79,
groundnut purchases by GPMB have declined to 75,000 tonnes and 46,000 tonnes
in 1979/80 and 1980/81 respectively. However, for 1981/82 season, production
has been estimated at 84,000 tonnes. Other crops, mostly the staples, viz



- 13 -
millet, sorghum and maize have also registered a decline in production since
1978/79. Rice production, mainly the irrigated and swamp rice - which is
grown in the Eastern Division where salt intrusion through the river Gambia is
more limited, has not been as adversely affected as groundnut production.
18.       Crop Production.  The following table shows the actual phased
performance against estimates of the crops promoted under the project:
1978/79                 1979/80                 1980/81
Appraisal               Appraisal               Appraisal
Actual Estimates  %   Actual Estimates  %   Actual Estimates  %
Number of Compounds            1,360      500    272    890        900    99   1,500        800   188
Total Crop under improved
production (ha)              4,277   5,340       80    676   10,840       6   3,125   9,720    32
of' which (a) groundnuts    3,281   2,650    124    648    5,380    12   2,992   4,750    63
(ha)
(b) rainfed rice    996   1,930        52      28    3,950      1      133   3,520      4
(ha)
(c) dryland            -      760       -       -    1,510      -        -   1,450      -
cereals (ha)
The number of compounds receiving benefits under the project (3,750) exceeded
by 70% appraisal estimates (2,200), but the area of groundnut production was
only 54% of total estimates as reflected by use of the credit inputs of
fertilizer and seed. The Appraisal Report overestimated total cropped area.
Actual cropped area per compound was 3.1, 0.8 and 2.1 hectares compared with
appraisal estimates of 10.7, 12.1 and 12.2 hectares in 1978/79, 1979/80 and
1980/81 respectively. The decline in actual cropped area could be attributed
largely to adverse climatic conditions particularly during 1979/80 and 1980/81
(para 17). However, it is likely but not measurable that other farmers in the
project area improved upon their groundnut cultural practices.
19.        It was found during implementation that few farmers required the
whole package as planned at appraisal. Each farmer was assumed to need the
following draft machinery: 1 sine hoe, 1 seeder and 1 cart. However, in
practice, a farmer either already possessed some equipment or could borrow or
hire and thus did not need to obtain the full package from the project. The
available machinery was thus spread over a wider group of farmers by including
farmers originally excluded from the program but wishing to participate.
Table 2 shows a comparison between appraisal estimates and actual distribution
of implements.
20.       Rice Production.  Total rice production was only 12% of estimates.
This, in particular, reflects the fact that most rice is grown by women and
the women farmers were much more cautious in their adoption of improved tech-
nology than men farmers. The full reasons behind this need further more
detailed evaluation but three factors which would have influenced the situation



- 14 -
are: lack of female agricultural extension workers; slowness to establish
rice cooperatives and the lack of support given such societies by the Gambian
Cooperative Union and the Cooperative Department; and an inadequately attrac-
tive price offered for local paddy.
21.       Dryland Cereal Production.  The project did not attempt to promote
improvement in dryland cereals - sorghum and millet, since there was no
suitable package available. The only improved sorghum variety available, Naga
White, has been shown to give considerably improved yields over local varieties
but it was rejected by the people as being relatively unpalatable.
22.       The overall promotion of farmers to grow crops under improved
cultural practices under the project has been affected by a number of factors.
First, a major project concept was that implementation should be carried out
by the Departments concerned. Reluctance to accept this responsibility by
departmental heads resulted in the Project Coordinator becoming a Project
Manager and by using various staff at his disposal he implemented the first
years program. As a result, the 1978/79 results were satisfactory with 272%
of compounds benefitting, groundnut area being 124%, and rice 52% (low for the
reasons stated in para 20). This indicated the good potential response from
farmers and, if measured by target achievement, was a satisfactory year.
However, it weakened the project concept of placing responsibility for imple-
mentation with departments rather than with the Project Coordinator. Perfor-
mance in later years shows the weakness of extension effort when dependent upon
departmental directors, and with inadequate and ineffective coordination and
direction from the Ministry. Second, the late or non-availability of seed has
been a serious limiting factor to improved crop production. The impact of the
long-term seed multiplication unit has not been fully felt during the project
life. The main variety of groundnuts promoted under the project was S28/206.
However, much seed of this variety was already in farmers hands and, at best,
improved seed issued by the project would have some quality (germination and
purity) benefits over farmers' own seed but have rather limited genetic
benefit. Also, seed issued to farmers has been provided by the Gambia Produce
Marketing Board and has been the tail end of the previous years marketed crop.
This tail end to the crop is generally of rather low quality as it represents
that portion of the crop which has been most adversely stored. Not only,
therefore, has seed quality been rather poor (probably 60% or less germination),
but the timely distribution of seed has been unsatisfactory; inadequate
availability of transport being a key factor. The lateness and poor quality
of seed has been of particular significance in the drought years experienced
by The Gambia in 1979 and 1980. This late planting has resulted in lower
yields with consequently less seed available for the following year. In a dry
year it is practicable to plant late but only with the 90 day maturation
variety, Philippine Pink - a high priced, lower yielding confectionery ground-
nut. However, supplies of this seed were inadequate to meet demand. Third,
although adequate quantities of fertilizer have been imported by Gambia
Produce Marketing Board, in-country distribution has been weak due to scarcity
or high cost of transport. Additionally, farmers are inclined to apply less
than the recommended dosage of fertilizer to their crops and to retain or use
on other crops any balance of fertilizer received.



- 15 -
23.       Seed and Fertilizer.  Table 2 shows the quantities of improved seed
and fertilizer issued under the project against aplpraisal estimates.
24.       Yield assessments using the improved technology package were carried
out by the project's Socio Economic Monitoring Unit (SEMU) and by the Sample
Survey of Agriculture (SSA) carried out by the Department of Central Statis-
tics, Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development. Comparison of
groundnut yields against appraisal estimates is as follows:
kg/ha
1978/79               1979/80                 1980/81
Actual Estimate % Actual Estimate % Actual Estimate %
Project participants       1,500  1,200   125  895    1,300    69  955    1,400    68
Non project participants 1,200    900   133  800          900    89  860        900    96
Incremental                  300    300   100   95        400    24   95        500    19
In 1978/79, farmers who had used fertilizer averaged 1,672 kg/ha (SSA estimated
1,874 kg/ha) whilst farmers who did not use fertilizer averaged 1,292 kg/ha
(SSA estimated 1,330 kg/ha). This justifies the project's fertilizer package
though as noted in para 22, farmers frequently apply only a portion of the
package. The comparison of yields against appraisal estimates particularly
for 1979/80 and 1980/81 should be seen in the light of the unfavourable
weather which resulted in national grounddnut production being about 58% and
35% of average production in 1979/80 and 1980/81. When measured against
non-project farmers there has been an improved performance of project farmers
despite the fact that the recommended practices have only been followed in
part.
Agricultural Extension Services
25.       An objective of the project was to change the former emphasis of
mixed farming centers (MFC) which had previously operated solely for the
training of farmers in the use of draft oxen and training of oxen themselves,
by having extension staff at the centres and using the centres as area develop-
ment centres. There was formerly no extension staff as such but under the
project 10 MFCs were to be upgraded, staff were to be trained, and made mobile
with the provision of motorcycles, or bicycles; extension effort would be
supported by the establishment of a visual aids center; the link between
extension and research would be strengthened through the project's promotion
of research activities; coordination with other departments e.g., Cooperatives
and Animal Health and Production would be brought about through the Project
Coordinator's office; and finally the overall extension effort would be



- 16 -
executed by the Director of Agriculture. No specific reference to the exten-
sion needs of women farmers was made at appraisal although the importance of
women farmers was identified during preparation. 12 MFCs have been upgraded
and staff have been made mobile as planned. The training program has been
disappointing with inadequate direction and focus. The training center at
Jenoi Regional Headquarters has been used for purposes other than training
extension staff - e.g., training of Peace Corps workers, community workers and
for general meetings. At Yundum, the training center has been used to train
groups of newly joining demonstrators but training has tended to be far too
class room oriented. The visual aids center has been well established in
excellent offices constructed under the pro.ject, well equipped and adequately
staffed. It has, however, tended to operate in a vacuum instead of being
integrated in the manner of a service department to meet the needs of depart-
mental extension staff. The project initated its own efforts to promote
greater involvement of women farmers. Eight certificate trained women exten-
sion workers were recruited and trained under a Peace Corps volunteer. The
effort was unsuccessful since these women preferred to seek more attractive
opportunities in the towns. Better results were obtained by selecting women
leaders who had obtained a little schooling and who were both respected by
the community women and who were permanently linked to the rural areas. The
intended coordination of activities under the Project Coordinator was inade-
quately fulfilled due primarily to a reluctance to cooperate on the part of
department heads, partly to weaknesses of the Project Coordinator and
partly to inadequate direction from the Ministry of Agriculture.
Livestock Production and Marketing
26.       The project aimed to improve livestock production and marketing,
through health campaigns, minimum infrastructural development and introduction
of better husbandry practices. Vaccination campaigns were intensified and
began in 1977/78. Inoculation for contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia and
Rinderpest was reportedly 100%. With the estimated 280-300,000 head of
cattle in the country, the project funds for vaccines and medicines were
rapidly utilized, following which vaccinations have continued at a level of
about 60,000 per annum. In the absence of a revolving fund, this continues to
be funded by the Government. The cattle fattening scheme proposed under the
project was not implemented and those funds were used for slaughter stock
instead.
27.       A main conduit for the livestock component has been the live-
Stock Marketing board. Since there existed no field infrastructure for
livestock purchase and handling, and subsequently no livestock exports prior
to 1979, emphasis was placed on the establishment of 10 buying points, each
consisting of a few holding pens, a weighing scale, water point and an office.
In addition, two 150 ha holding grounds with a limited number of stock routes
leading to them were to be provided. However, only four holding grounds for
the 10 buying points were constructed out of which three situated at Bintang,
Farabasutu and Pirang have been in regular use. Since 1979, slaughter
stock and heifers for export have passed through these holding grounds. Of



- 17 -
the 2 main 150 ha holding grounds which were proposed, the one at Abuko was
reduced in size, while the second one at Kiling was expanded and is presently
being developed. The arrival of the cattle handling equipment in early 1981,
assisted greatly in the handling of some 2,000 breeding cattle at the ports
during the export of animals to Nigeria and Gabon.
Cooperatives and Credit
28.       It was envisaged under the project that seasonal and development
loans for farmers would be handled by the Gambian Cooperative Union - the apex
organization for 62 Cooperative Societies registered in the country, 22 of
which were in the project area. GCU was required under a Covenant of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to lend only to Societies which had a
minimum repayment record of 95%; however this was not strictly followed.
Government was required as a condition of the DCA to establish a revolving
fund for the purpose of providing seasonal and medium-term credit to project
farmers. This would be funded by an allocation of US$2.2 million to be made
by the Central Bank in favour of GCU. However, in the first cropping
year (PY2) the issue of farm inputs on credit was carried out by the Socio
Economic Survey Implementation and Monitoring Unit (SESIMU) under an ad hoc
arrangement. As a result of Bank intervention in July 1978, SESIMU was
limited to monitoring and evaluation and became SEMU; responsibility for
implementation reverting, as planned at appraisal, to heads of departments.
Meanwhile no revolving credit fund was established and the Central Bank did
not pay in the US$2.2 million to GCU. GCU understandably demanded that since
they had not been directly responsible for the first year's farmer loans, a
formal hand over of assets was necessary in the shape of loans or stores.
This was not satisfactorily resolved until 1980. About 65% of short term loans
falling due in 1979 were repaid. Up-to-date data on repayments has not yet
been compiled and analyzed mainly because the police confiscated the records
of most of the societies in connection with malpractices by secretaries.
Repayments during 1980 and 1981 are, however, expected to be low because of
exceptionally low groundnut production during those years. Government also
instructed Cooperatives to be extremely liberal with credit, particularly for
subsistence, and not to enforce recovery where adverse climatic factors had
ocurred. Under the DCA the repayment terms of medium term credit (oxen and ox
equipment) was three equal instalments in the year following issue of inputs.
During implementation, management changed the terms to four and five years.
The rationale for extending the loan repayment period was reasonable, based on
updated farm budgets reflecting current price increases.
Seed Multiplication
29.       The Project recognized the need for improved seed through the
establishment of a Seed Multiplication Unit (SMU) headed by an expatriate
Senior Seeds Officer assisted by a Seeds Analyst on a short contract to
establish the seeds laboratory. Priority was given to groundnuts to make
the type 28/206 a predominant variety. Confectionary nuts did not feature
in the programme until 1979. Other crops under the seed scheme included eight



- 18 -
varieties of rice seed to meet the different ecological rice growing condi-
tions, and the development of Nigerian composite maize. The following table
shows the quantities of groundnuts seeds produced.
1977/78         1978/79         1979/80         1980/81
ha     mt       ha     mt       ha     mt       ha     mt
Basic Seed         15.8   14.3    15.8   19.0       9.5    7.7    11.2    9.5
Registered        154.5  161.0   140.0  224.0    49.2   16.1    59.6   44.8
Certified       1,332.0   n.a. 1,095.0    n.a.  298.0  247.4   231.0  187.3
30.       During the same period 1978 to 1981, a total of 618.8 tons of rice
seed was produced, sufficient to plant 4,126 ha. A major proportion, 551.1
tonnes of rice seed was issued to the Department of Agriculture, Cooperative
Union and RDP Women's Program, for distribution to farmers or by direct sale
to them. Farmers have received some seed as a free gift and repayments of
seed loans to the Gambia Cooperation Union are not in turn repaid to SMU.
This has created a new subsidy which could become a drain on Government Funds
as the demand for seed increases. The DCA provided for the establishment of
a Seeds Production Committee. In December 1977, terms of reference for a
National Seeds Council were prepared but the Council was not formalised until
1979. Seeds multiplication has been satisfactorily established through the
project. However, it has an unsatisfactory financial basis (see above), and
the Gambian management is inexperienced.
31.       Agricultural Research.  Agricultural Research has been strengthened
and consolidated at Sapu under the project. Both irrigated and upland agronomy
units have been managed by expatriates and programs have been effectively
carried out. Irrigation trials have focused on rice but although five prin-
cipal ecosystems exist, most of the trial work has centered on Sapu, primarily
on account of staff and vehicle shortages. Trials work has been closely
coordinated with that of the WARDA. A Gambian agronomist took over respon-
sibility for the unit on completion of the expatriate's contract in mid 1980.
The upland agronomy research unit was initiated at Sapu under the project,
and the initial efforts were concentrated or establishing this unit. The
first agronomist left after less than a year's service, but management
continuity has been maintained thereafter, strongly supported by Gambian
counterparts.  Research has been concentrated on groundnuts, maize, sorghum,
late and early millet, cotton, cowpeas, soyabeans and sesame.  Planning has
been initiated on farming systems research, and liaison established with the
Plant Breeding Station at Rothampstead in England.
32.       Crop Marketing.  Under the project 16 produce markets (seccos) were
to be constructed and 6 improved. However, 22 were improved with store,
office and fencing. Groundnuts have continued, as in the past, to be stacked
in heaps in the seccos which results in a first-in, last-out principle with



- 19 -
consequent deterioration of quality. Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB)
have investigated alternative handling techniques and containers have been
used experimentally. This component has been successfully carried out but,
for it to be effective, improvements are needed in transport and handling by
the Gambia Cooperative Union and GPMB.
33.       Feeder Roads.  Under the project, 300 km of feeder roads should
have been constructed. In fact, only about 20 km have been built. Construc-
tion standard is only fair with some roads being inadequate, e.g. linking a
single village to a nearby main road. In December 1976, the Ministries of
Agriculture and Public Works agreed to the roads unit being established under
the control of the Project Coordinator though issues of appointment of a Works
Superintendent and back up support remained unsolved. Despite repeated
requests for a program of work by subsequent supervision missions, no action
was taken until mid 1980 when assistance in supervision was provided by the
Department of Community Development. Meanwhile, machinery purchased in 1976
for roads construction was used for other purposes - e.g. the bulldozer
cleared land for the upland agronomy unit. The generally unsatisfactory
performance of the feeder roads unit has had little adverse effect on project
progress since many of the feeder roads which would otherwise have been
constructed by the project's unit were, in fact, constructed by projects
carried out or financed by other donors.
34.       Functional Numeracy Program.  A functional numeracy program was
preferred at appraisal to literacy as the former was felt to be more closely
linked to the immediate needs of the agricultural community. The project
initiated action to consolidate the work of a number of bodies in this field
and this became a National Literacy Campaign established in 1976. The
project paid for an administrator, field operations office, and 6 other staff.
Literature was produced in the Mandinka language. Topics ranged from primers
in reading and writing to texts on poultry and vegetable growing. Field
activities were concentrated on 16 villages and teaching carried out by 32
facilitators. This component has been reasonably successful and about 800
participants have become effectively literate thus enabling them to take
better advantage of the extension services provided under the project.
35.       Studies
a)   The project provided funds for the preparation of a Phase II project
and proposed that the Project Coordinator would be primarily respon-
sible for directing the exercise, his position as coordinator of the
project being taken over by a Gambian counterpart who was trained
over the first two years of project life. The expatriate coordi-
nator commenced work on the Phase II preparation as planned in PY3.
However, a suitable Gambian counterpart was not available to fill
the post of project coordinator and, as a result, project imple-
mentation suffered. The Phase II preparation was well coordinated
with 13 working groups preparing papers on the various components
under the guidance of the Bank's Regional Mission in Western Africa.



- 20 -
b)   Funds provided for a study of the Jakhaly Swamp in MacCarthy Island
Division were not utilized as the study was carried out by direct
arrangement between Government and a firm of consulting engineers.
c)   Groundnut Study.  One of the first project actions, in August 1976,
was to initiate a study on aflatoxin in groundnuts. Government
proposed to use Tropical Products Institute (UK), but the Bank was
required to review terms of reference, the short list of bidders, and
the qualifications and experience of consultants. Subsequently,
Government cooled to the importance of this study as GPMB had
commissioned its own study into marketing problems. Terms of
reference for a study were eventually redrafted by a supervision
mission but it was not until April 1980 that the need for a Grain
Storage and Groundnut Marketing Study was agreed by Government. The
report was completed and presented to Government in June 1981.
d)   Accounting Study.  Funds were provided for a study into MANR
accounting procedures. During the course of project implementation,
Government and IDA agreed that the study as originally conceived was
not required since the project was being audited by independent
auditors. However, it later became apparent that project accounts
were unsatisfactorily established and badly operated. As a result,
funds were used to employ a consulting firm (from UK) to advise on
the establishment of an accounting system and to follow up on the
work by reviewing the project's accounting control.
Reporting
36.       This is an unsatisfactory feature of project performance.  Govern-
ment was required under the DCA to provide to IDA the following reporting or
planning documents:
-    work programs for field staff of the Animal Health and Production,
Cooperatives, Agricultural Departments, and roads construction
unit. None were received despite requests from several supervision
missions;
-    maintenance schedules for plant, equipment, vehicles and pro-
perties and assets. Again none were received;
-    annual estimates of expenditure for the Project before they
were finalized. This was not done.
Although not specified in detail in the DCA, the project was required to
submit quarterly and annual progress reports, and appropriate reporting
formats were subsequently designed to assist management. The formats have not
been followed and only five progress reports have been sent to IDA since
project commencement. This unsatisfactory feature of project implementation
has been raised as an issue with Government by all supervision missions since
1977.



- 21 -
Procurement
37.       The major procurement item was for buildings, procedures for which
are recorded in para 15. ICB procedures were followed for the purchase of
vehicles, plant and equipment financed by IDA. For other items, competitive
shopping was carried out but this was not always strictly in line with formal
Government procedures.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost and Financing
38.       A breakdown of actual and estimated project costs by category of
expenditure is shown below:
ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Cost        Actual          % of
Category                              Estimate        Costs    Estimated Cost
-           Dalasi '000--------------
Agricultural Extension and
Training                            2,848.30       7,249.87        255
Livestock Development                  3,511.50      4,392.37        125
Cooperative Development               3,751.78       4,865.68        130
Agricultural Inputs and Equipment   5,271.75         3,879.33         74
Crop Extraction Roads                  1,778.47        788.01         44
Project Management Unit                1,398.91      3,443.46        246
Seeds Production and Research         2,509.84       6,511.87        259
Adult Numeracy Program                   219.80        193.35         88
Consultancies and Studies                909.65        420.24         46
Total Project Costs                  22,200.00    31,744.18          143
39.       The standard of project accounting and financial control has been
unsatisfactory and the methods of accounting precluded satisfactory identifi-
cation of expenditure against Government allocations (para. 56).
40.       Total Costs.  Total project costs are D31.7 million, an increase of
43 percent over the appraisal estimate. In US dollar terms, the cost is $15.9
million, an increase of 36 percent over the :-igure estimated at appraisal.
The difference between the two percentages is caused by variations in the
dollar/dalasi exchange rate. The biggest cost overruns have been in the Seed
Production and Research Unit, Agricultural Extension and Training, and the



- 22 -
Project Management Unit. All of these components had substantial buildings
and civil works on which there was an overall cost overrun of 228% (para 16).
A major reason for the overrun with the Seed Production and Research Unit is
that no revolving fund was established, and no revenue from seed sales has
returned to the Unit. There were savings in agricultural inputs and roads
components reflecting the difficulties in getting these components moving.
41.       Project Financing.  A break-down of project financing is as follows:
IDA              UK             BADEA             GAMBIA
/%    D(m)       %     D(m)      %       D(m)      %      D(m)
Actual       26     8.2       44    13.8      26       8.4       4      1.3
Appraisal   35      7.8       36     7.9      28       6.2        1     0.3
In terms of financing of cost overruns, it is clear that the U.K. has been the
most important source. This is a reflection of the substantial cost overruns
that occured with the buildings and civil works components (para. 16).
42.       Cofinancing Relationships.  Relationships between the three cofinan-
cers have been good. ODA participated in several joint supervision missions
and BADEA carried out an independent supervision early in project life.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
43.       A main objective of the project was to improve the standard of
living of about 10% of the country's population situated in the rural areas
by increasing production and incomes through the provision of inputs and
services, and at the same time to develop the institutional framework to
permit a continuity of agricultural development activity which could ulti-
mately affect the whole country. The project had quite severe administrative
problems and the country suffered two exceptionally bad crop years during the
project life. However, despite these factors, the project's impact has been
considerable:
-    3,750 compounds (probably involving about 60,000 people) have
benefitted under the project's crop improvement program.
-    A cumulative figure of about 6,900 ha of groundnuts and 1,100 ha
of rice has been grown under improved cultural practices.
-    About 3,200 ox implements and 1,800 pairs of oxen have been
issued to farmers permitting better cultural practices, better
use of family labor and a reduced burden on labor.



- 23 -
In its infrastructure and institution building role the project has:
-    Developed  a firm base for upland irrigated crop research.
-    Erected a seed multiplication unit which has far reaching potential
impact on future crop production.
-    Created a visual aids center together with a capacity for visual
aid production which will become an essential ingredient in
developing an effective and integrated extension service.
-    Developed a planning potential in Gambian staff during the course
of preparing for a Phase II project.
-    Established an improved training program for staff of the Animal
Health and Production, Cooperative and Agricultural Departments.
-    Initiated steps towards a closer integration of departments
concerned with agricultural development.
-    Improved the conditions for marketing groundnuts.
-    Identified, through the conduct of a study, areas for reduction
in storage and handling losses of crops.
44.       The project has stimulated demand from farmers for inputs and
improved practices even though it has not been able to adequately meet
this demand and ensure a satisfactory credit recovery system. It has also
stimulated an active and critical interest in the rural development process
from politicians, community leaders, farmers and Government officials. This
will become of particular importance in the proposed follow-up project which
will have a national coverage.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
45.       Quantifiable project benefits were mainly crop production and
livestock. Incremental groundnuts and rice production attributable largely
to the adoption of the "package" consisting of farm implements, seeders, sine
hoes, oxen, seeds and fertilizer have been provided in Tables 3 and 4. The
project's seed production component provided seed to non-project participants,
which has been considered as a project benefit. Since the infrastructure
provided under the Rural Development Project has benefitted the areas coming
under EEC financing, the incremental production resulting from these areas
has also been included. Surveys indicated that about 51% of project partici-
pants who were prime beneficiaries of the technology package hired or lent
our their implements to non-project participants. The area affected by the
project has thus been greater than that cropped by project participants
alone.  The "spread effect" has been predominantly in groundnut production



- 24 -
where the impact has been the greatest. Incremental production as a result
of the spread effect has been considered as a project benefit. In addition
to these benefits, there have been non-quantifiable benefits such as strength-
ening existing agricultural institutions and promoting local involvement
through literacy and extension services. The farm-gate economic prices of
groundnuts and rice, (Tables 5 and 6) have been based on current international
prices for the period 1976-1981 expressed in 1980-1981 dalasis, and, thereafter,
on the Bank's commodity price forecasts for the period 1982-1990.
46.       The project, through the health campaigns and preventative vaccina-
tions, kept the number of cattle from declining in population, and thereby
assisted in maintaining a stable level of domestic livestock production. It
is, however, difficult to quantify those benefits. The health campaigns and
vaccinations, together with the development of "buying-points" and provision
of cattle handling equipment, contributed significantly to the exports of live
cattle to Gabon and Nigeria, especially since there were no exports of cattle
prior to 1979. These exports made a substantial contribution to The Gambia's
foreign exchange earnings. In the absence of data on livestock production
attributable directly to project inputs, the benefits to the national economy
resulting out of the exports by the Livestock Marketing Board of live cattle
have been taken as project benefits.
Project Costs
47.       All actual past project costs have been expressed in 1980/81 Dalasis.
The foreign and local components of project costs were adjusted to 1980/81
constant values using the domestic consumer price index for Gambia. All
foreign exchange costs were converted to Dalasis at the prevailing official
exchange rates, which is assumed to be the same as the shadow exchange rate.
There is very little difference, if any, and in a very limited market, between
official and market exchange rates in The Gambia. Since the EEC area also
benefitted from project infrastructure, the associated costs, mostly inputs,
financed by EEC have been included in the project costs for carrying out the
economic analysis. The inputs necessary to service the EEC area for the
duration of the project have also been included. Surveys undertaken by PPMU
indicate that labor input per hectare has decreased for project participants,
in comparison to non-project participants. This is attributable to increased
use of oxen and oxen drawn implements in the project area. Thus, it has been
assumed that there is no incremental labor requirement for carrying out
necessary farming activities. Other farm inputs, mainly fertilizer, which
have been subsidized for the past several years, have been costed at their
unsubsidized prices for the economic analysis. The total cost of the project
in current Dalasis is estimated at D 31.74 million.
Economic Analysis
48.       The economic rate of return based on quantifiable parameters would
be about 7% compared to 27% expected at appraisal over a project life of 15



- 25 -
years, assuming the above costs and benefits. 1/  The main reasons for this
lower rate of return were: (i) large costs overruns in infrastructure; 2/
(ii) delay in start up of benefits until the third year of the project; and
(iii) there were two drought years out of three in an environment which
mormally has one drought year in five, which affected not only total produc-
tion but also the incremental production response to project inputs. The
higer rate of return expected at appraisal could partly be attributable to an
overestimation of crop benefits, particularly7 from cereal production which
turned out to be negligible, during the project period. Further, the appraisal
report overestimated the economic groundnuts prices for 1978/79 and 1979/80,
the third and fourth years of the project, by 59% and 15% respectively.  There
were other factors which contributed to the 'Lower economic rate of return.
First, benefits attributable to the infrastructure are not commensurate with
the total infrastructure costs assumed in the economic analysis since it is
not possible to quantify all benefits.  Second, financing of infrastructure
was in the form of a tied UK-ODA grant which contributed to the cost overrun;
this would probably have been reduced if the infrastructure had been done
through ICB. Finally, as described in para. 43, the project's impact went
beyond the quantifiable crop and livestock benefits, such as strengthening
existing agricultural institutions, and promoting local involvement through
literacy and extension services. If these factors could be quantified, the
economic rate of return would probably be in excess of 10%. Thus, the project
was worth doing.
49.        Analysis of farm income per ha and per person of a project compound
suggests that farmers using oxen implements and improved varieties have
increased their incomes from participating in the project. Net farm income
per hectare of an average project farmer at D 470 was higher than a non-project
farmer's income per ha of D 373 according to a survey carried out by PPMU in
1978/79. When net farm income per person was considered, the project farmer's
income (1978/79 D130) showed an increase of 67% over that of a non-project
farmer (1978/79 D78). The problem, however, has been that many farmers have
not received inputs in time to be fully effective, and the risks in a bad year
reduce the incentive to adopt some of the improved practices.
1/   This economic analysis used the Decembe:r 1981 groundnut and rice price
projections of EPD. Analysis was also carried out using the current EPD
groundnut and rice price projections (July 1982), which showed an
insignificant reduction in the rate of return for the entire project.
2/   There was a 36% cost overrun on total project cost, most of which occured
in buildings and civil works (228%). The civi:L works components comprised
44% of project costs upon completion as against 24% expected at the time
of appraisal.



- 26 -
Project Disbursements
50.       Disbursements were well ahead of estimates in the initial years of
the project (Basic Data Sheet). This was because of a rapid infrastructural
build-up in the first two years of project life. Disbursements slowed down
since 1978/79, which was in part due to the slow down in project activity
particularly in regard to the farm lending program, partly attributable to
adverse climatic conditions, and also due to the Commission of Enquiry which
retained project accounts and documents for almost two years (para 58).
VII. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
51.       The project was designed to be executed by the heads of departments
concerned and not, as occurred, by the Project Coordinator. The project
should have provided the means to achieve a degree of cohesiveness in the
several Ministry activities. The fact that it did not was partly due to the
historical insularity of departments within the Ministry which operated from
semi-independent and geographically separate locations. It was also due in
part to the personalities of the heads of departments, and to the Project
Coordinator who was anxious to achieve targets set at appraisal and who thus
became impatient with weak departmental response to project objectives.
Overall, there was inadequacy of direction by MANR to push through change in
a long established system. To some extent this may be attributable to an
inadequate Gambian involvement at the preparation stage. The apparent inde-
pendence of the project from other Ministry activities was visibly demon-
strated by the wide use of insignia on vehicles and notice boards styled
"Rural Development Project" or "RDP" with no indication of its relationship
to the Ministry of Agriculture and National Resourcs. This was one very
visible example of the poor public relations which were experienced. An
unsatisfactory feature of the project was Government's failure to provide an
officer of sufficient capability to understudy and eventually takeover from
the expatriate project coordinator until mid 1980.
Project Coordinating Committee
52.       This committee, under the Chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary
MANR, was created to provide a means of coordinating the affairs of the
project.  The composition included the heads of all departments involved in
the project together with representatives from Ministries and other bodies
concerned, e.g., GPMB, GCU. The Committee's composition was widened early
in project life so that it became the coordinating committee for all MANR
functions. It functioned effectively for the first 18 months, meeting with
adequate regularity and acting as a forum for discussion upon which the
Permanent Secretary, as the Project's Director, was able to make decisions.
However, in September 1979, a supervision mission noted that the Committee had
ceased to be effective and stressed its potential usefulness; in 1980 it was
resuscitated and met with adequate regularity thereafter. In general, the PCC



- 27 -
served a useful function but there has been inadequate conclusiveness to its
deliberations; firm lines of action, and accountability for action not being
clearly laid down and monitored.
Other Ministries
53.       The Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development has
taken an especially active interest in project progress with representation
on the Project Coordinating Committee and a strong involvement in Phase II
planning. The Ministry of Finance has supported the project adequately with
local financial contributions and processed reimbursement requests without
excessive delays.
Gambia Produce Marketing Board
54.       Prices for groundnuts and paddy have been an unsatisfactory feature
of the project and although the groundnut price has been competitive with that
paid in neighbouring Senegal, GPMB margins remain excessive. GPMB's reserves,
in turn, have been used for general Government deveLopment expenditure.
Thus, the farmer is being indirectly taxed oEten to no benefit to himself.
GPMB has satisfactorily carried out its role of importer and supplier of
fertiliser to the project.
Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU)
55.       The project was to have supported improvements to the cooperative
movement through the channeling of credit,, through the apex organisation - GCU-
to primary societies and so to farmers. Support was given to the Cooperative
Department in vehicles and training facilities for cooperative inspectors.
The financial structure, staffing and prospects for GCU, and the primary
societies was inadequately dealt with during appraisal. GCU is now in finan-
cial difficulties due primarily to the imposition placed on it by Government
for handling subsistence credit and Governmenit laxity in direction of repay-
ment conditions. Primary societies are weak following the unsatisfactory
performance of officials, many of whom have been dismissed. Clearly, the
project should have done more in the form of technical assistance, consultancy
advice, and in obtaining Government guarantees of financial support to GCU.
Government is now taking steps to overcome these problems in preparation for a
proposed second phase project.
Accounts and Audit
56.       The accounting performance has been unsatisfactory and as a con-
sequence audit also suffered. A Gambian accountant, acceptable to IDA, was
recruited at project commencement. However, the nature of project accounting
was strange to him and eventually his work deteriorated seriously; he was
dismissed early in 1980. An external accountancy consultant prepared a
revised accounting system for the project in June 1979 and in July 1980 he
returned to bring the accounts into reasonable order. Unfortunately, there
was no follow-up to his work and at project completion the accounts were
not up to date. Project audit has been generally satisfactorily carried out



- 28 -
by an international firm of auditors based in Banjul. The Auditor General
felt inadequately involved in the system as devised and required that inde-
pendently audited accounts should be examined by his department before
release. GCU accounts have been submitted to IDA but 3-15 months later than
required under the DCA. Project accounts have been submitted for the fiscal
years, 1977-1979, but are overdue for 1980 and 1981. The unsatisfactory
delays in auditing accounts of RDP were primarily due to the poor state of
maintenance of project accounts and to the retention of documents by the
Commission of Enquiry (para 60) until mid-1981 without which finalization of
annual accounts and completion of audit was impossible. The accounts will be
updated prior to appraisal of ADPII.
Technical Assistance
57.       The project provided for the recruitment of 5 expatriates, all of
whom were to be funded by U.K. Technical Assistance Grant. These staff were
Project Coordinator, Irrigation Agronomist, Upland Agronomist, Senior Seeds
Officer and Seeds Analyst. The Project Coordinator operated under con-
siderable autonomy to the Permanent Secretary. However, his enthusiasm to
achieve a rapid completion of infrastructural build-up and target achievement
during the first two years resulted in him functioning in the manner of a
project manager, thus negating one of the principal concepts of the project to
obtain greater MANR integration by using the department heads as the project
executors. In addition, the Project Coordinator did not delegate effectively,
was weak as a trainer, and allowed administrative matters to become seriously
behind schedule. In mid-1980 he was withdrawn from the project and a Gambian
took over at rather short notice. He has performed satisfactorily, assisted
by an agricultural advisor provided by the U.K. The first upland agronomist
left after only one year due to personal reasons. His replacement, and the
irrigation agronomist, performed well over their 3 year contracts. The senior
seeds officer was appointed in September 1977 and performed effectively though
he was not provided with a counterpart until late and then the counterpart had
little practical experience. The seeds analyst was originally to be employed
on a six month contract, but this was extended to one year. He performed
competently and trained a Gambian counterpart to take over on his departure.
In addition, there were a number of volunteer expatriates whom the project
recruited in fields of monitoring and evaluation and farm survey, womens
training, and graphic arts for the visual aids program. There were also
expatriates, mostly funded under separate U.K. Technical Assistance Grant, in
GCU, Department of Cooperatives, Training Section, Department of Agriculture,
and the Livestock Marketing Board. The UNDP provided funds for the MANR
Planning Team. Thus there was a large, visible expatriate involvement through-
out the project's activities, some provided directly by the project. Although
most were effective, the high exposure of expatriates resulted in some strong
adverse criticism from other Government Ministries of inadequate Gambian
involvement. Generally, there were an inadequate number of Gambian counter-
parts to take over from expatriates.
58.       Commission of Enquiry.  In July 1979, a Presidential Commission of
Enquiry was appointed to investigate the conduct and management of the project.
The Final Report of the Commission which was dated May, 1981, but not
published until January/February 1982 commented on:



- 29 -
(i)  the high cost of infrastructure in. relation to direct benefits to
farmers;
(ii)  deviations from procurement procedures, with particular reference
to the ODA-financed component, but also covering a small amount of
equipment purchased under local procurement procedures;
(iii)  poor performance of expatriate staff; and
(iv) serious managerial and administrative problems which have hindered
implementation of a project which was large and complex, with too
many individual components which required highly efficient admini-
stration, effective linkages and careful coordination.
59.       The establishment of the Commission of Enquiry affected the project
quite severely in the following ways:
-    staff morale was lowered;
-    management capacity was diverted from development activities
to deal with Commission enquiries;
-    the accounts and records of the project were impounded resulting
in management being unable to complete reports and records, and in
the auditors being unable to complete audLit;
-    budgeting allocations to the project were frozen and as a result
the project experienced considerable cash flow problems; and
-    after two years, the Commission's findings had still not been
made public, and conclusions from these findings could not,
therefore, be considered in the initial planning of ADP II;
60.       Although Government of the Gambia has not taken explicit action on
the recommendations of the Commission of Enquiry, the findings and recommenda-
tions of the Commission are being taken into consideration during preparation
and appraisal of ADP II.
VIII.  BANK PERFORMNCE
61.       The Bank should have called for greater Government involvement and
commitment to the project prior to appraisal both at the identification and
preparation stages. Whilst the Bank did insist on the project manager of the
previous agricultural project (Cr. 323-GM) playing a leading role in the
preparation exercise he was an expatriate and, therefore, did not adequately
reflect Gambian viewpoint.



- 30 -
62.       During appraisal, too little attention was given to the organiza-
tional requirements of GCU and the cooperative structure, and some of the
targets were over-optimistic. Also, this was the first IDA financed project
aiming at general agricultural development in The Gambia with the usual
attendant problems of inadequate knowledge about the sector and the environ-
ment the project was to operate. As a result, the project, as designed,
was over-complicated with a wide range of components that demanded an excep-
tional ability to coordinate in view of previous history of departments
operating with considerable insularity.
63.       In January, 1975, the identification mission had identified the
shortage of experienced staff as a serious potential constraint to effective
implementation of the livestock component. Provision should have been made
for an expatriate accountant and probably an expatriate assisting in the
weakly administered Department of Animal Health and Production.
64.       The Bank has been too lenient in requiring that some of the condi-
tions of the Loan Agreement be fulfilled, for example reporting requirements.
In part this can be attributed to the excellent start the project made, with
rapid infrastructual development and initial support for the farmers program.
As a result, the fulfillment of some of the covenants of an administrative
nature were not pressed at an early stage by the Bank in the interests of
greater focus on development activity.
65.       The Bank encouraged Government to adhere to the appraisal time-table
whereby, commencing in PY3, the Project Coordinator should redirect much of
his RDP I focus towards the preparation of Phase II. This was rational as far
as endeavouring to ensure continuity between the end of RDP I and the com-
mencement of Phase II now called ADP II. However, it did not adequately take
into consideration the fact that Government had not found a suitable, qualified
and competent Gambian replacement for the Project Coordinator. As a result,
too much emphasis was given to Phase II preparation and too little to ongoing
project coordination.
66.       The project had a good rating for the first five supervision
missions and it was not until January 1979, that it became apparent that
earlier dynamism had died and that the project was running into difficulties.
In September 1979, the project was classified a problem project and though
some improvements were noted by later missions it remained such thereafter.
More stringent actions should have been taken in 1979/80 to bring the project
back on track. Bank missions were well aware of the situation and expressed
their concern to the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources and
Economic Planning and Industrial Development. A better response might have
been forthcoming by addressing higher levels of the Gambian Government at an
earlier stage.
67.       During the project life there were 14 supervision missions, an
average of one supervision mission every five months over the 5 years of
project life. The project was more complex than expected at appraisal, and
although there was a reasonable continuity of supervision, there were periods
when more intensive supervision would have been advisable.



- 31 -
68.       The Bank should share responsibility with Government for some of the
mistakes and omissions made during both the preparatory and implementation
phases of the project, particularly with regard to the lack of resources
allocated initially to GCU and the cooperatives and also the failure of early
missions to recognize that the cooperatives were in trouble. It is also
reasonable to assume that early review missions should have noted that all was
not well with the PMU and that the project coordinator was not always acting
in a responsible and sensitive manner. This suggests that there was room for
improvement of project monitoring, and this is being addressed during prepara-
tion and appraisal of ADP II.
IX. CONCLIJSIONS
69.       As measured by the economic rate of return (about7%), the project
has not been as successful as originally expected. However, it has generated
a number of non-quantifiable benefits, predominantly among which has been the
identification of the strengths and weaknesses of the integrated rural develop-
ment approach in the Gambian context, and a better understanding of the
managerial and organizational constraints which the Government experiences.
Further, the project has served to identify important policy areas in the
agricultural sector which now form the basis for a meaningful dialogue. Some
of the key policy issues are subsistance credit, allocation of revenues from
groundnut exports within the production chain, and price stabilization measures.
The development of agricultural institutions at the operational district
level, mainly through the mixed farming genters and provision of agricultural
staff, provided additional channels of communication with farmers beyond the
existing traditional village groups. Finally, the project has stimulated
important discussions at various levels on the best ways to develop agriculture
in the future. A strong farmer demand for improved cultural practices and
response to sound advice has been shown. If the smallholder farmers are
provided with the appropriate inducement of attractive producer prices, and
are able to obtain their inputs when and where they need them, there is little
doubt that they could increase greatly the agricultural production of the
country in both cash and food crops.
70.       The main lessons to be learned from the 'project are:
-    there is need for more local involvement in the planning stages
to ensure adequate commitment during implementation;
-    expatriate consultants should be engaged, where necessary, at the
same time, positive steps for disengagement of expatriates need to be
defined at appraisal and progress in implementation of disengagement
needs to be measured by Government, the officials concerned and the
Bank, throughout the project life;
-    where countries lack adequate management and administration exper-
tise, the Bank should try to minimize the number of sub-components
in rural development projects;



- 32 -
when a Ministry is not responding adequately to implementation
problems brought to its attention repeatedly by supervision
missions, the issues should be brought to the notice of higher
authorities earlier in the cycle rather than persevere solely with
the Ministry in question;
where support is provided for livestock vaccination programs,
assurance of continuity in subsequent years is required either in
the forms of the establishment of a revolving fund or through
Government guarantee of adequate annual budgeting and allocation
of funds; and
the promotion of women's farming activities specifically is
important and close attention should be given to the selection, and
training of suitable extension workers.
71.       In summary, the project quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits
outweigh its costs and some major lessons have been learned. The project
was, therefore, worth doing.



33 -                                         Table 1
THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 644-GM)
Project Costs and Financing - Comparison Between Appraisal and Estimated Actual Cost
(US $ '000)
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Total US$                   Total US$             Actual % of
Components                                Equivalent                     Equivalent       Appraisal Estimate
A.       Agricultural Extension
and Training                               1499.1                          3620.0                 241
B.       Livestock Development                       1848.2                          2191.0                119
C.       Co-operative Development                    1974.6                          2428.0                123
D.       Agricultural Inputs
and Equipment                              2774.6                          1935.0                  70
E.       Crop Extraction Roads                        936.0                           391.7                 42
F.       Project Management Unit                      736.3                          1721.7                234
G.       Seeds Production and Research               1321.0                          3256.0                246
H.       Adult Numeracy Program                       115.7                            96.5                 83
I.       Studies and Consultancies                    478.5                           210.1                 44
TOTAL                              11684.0                         15850.0                136
Financing
Bank/IDA                                   4100                            4100                   100
Borrower                                    158                             650                   411
Cofinancier:
ODA (T)                       4158                            6900                  166
BADFA                         3268                            4200                  129
TOTAL                              11684                           15850                  136
Exchange Rate:  Appraisal average US$1 = Dalasis 1.9
Actual average    US$1   Dalasis 2.0



THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Cr 644-GM)
Agricultural Inputs: A Comparison Between Appraisal Estimates and Actual Distribution of Seed, Fertilizer and Implements
1978/79                         1979/80                        1980/81                         1981/82                         Total
Actual   Appraisal    %         Actual    Appraisal   %          Actual    Appraisal   %        Actual    Appraisal   %          Actual   Appraisal   %
Seed
Groundnuts   (mt)                    392.3        350      112         59.8         560      11       373.0         573      65      534.4            -               1359.5    1483.0    92
Upland Rice (mt)                      74           60      123          1.2         106       1         9            108      8         0.2           -                 84.4      274.0    31
Alluvial Rice (mt)                     -          110       -            -          178       -         -            183       -         -                               -           -        -
Sorghum  (mt)                          -            3       -            -            6       -         -              8      -          -            -                  -          -        -
Fertilizer
SSP for groundnuts  (mt)             410.1        398      103        81.4          806      10       228.3          750     30      525.0            -               1244.8     1954.0    64
Compound for rice (mt)               174.9        275       64          4.8         564       2        33.2          543       6     204.0            -                416.9     1382.0    30
Implements
Sine hoes  (no)                      667          391      171       294            844      35       594            715      83      178             -               1733       1950       89
Seeders  (no)                       1038          391      265       314            844      37       512            715      72      46              -               1910       1950        98
Ox-carts  (no)                       298          391       76       208            844      25       571            715      80      242             -               1319        1950       68
Oxen                                 504          333      151        106           717      15      1020            608      168    244              -               1874        1658      113
S
Source: Project Management U3nit. ROP



52S IOMLO1
RU _RALDVELOMENT PROJECT (Cr R44-OS)
1976/79       1979/80        1900/O8       1981/82       19P8/83        1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       1986/87        1987/88       1988/89        1989/90       199 /91       1991/99      1992/93       1993/94        1994/95       1995/96
A. DiOP RAn,
Bonn3 YmDroReO (hn)
AnnUal                            3,0~~     ~     ~~~~       ~~~81  648  2,999  3,533         330           -             -              -             -              -             -                            -----
01=U1ati-e                                   3(O81          3,929         6,9921         o,45l        10,754        1W,754         10,554         10,554        1C,75           o 10,754     10,;54         10,754        10,754        10,754      10,q54         10,754        10,754         10,754
'SP-end' DI-ert Area (ha)
onnan                                           Boo           lEo            748                                                                        -  -       -              -             -            -                     -             -              -
Cti,olahlve                                   o80             9i2         1,730          1,73          1,70           1,730         1,739          1,730         1,730          1,730         1;730         1,730          1,730         1,730       t,730         1,730          1,730         1,730
YCldOA  (kg/la) a!
Frojert Pno-100                              1500.           809            933          1,000         1.9            1.490        - t 1,500       1,29          1,6R           1,592         1,592         1,50           1,200         9,500       1.392         1,50w          1,500         1,200
Nan .lR3n1  Dnlrlnle199                                 oo    90806                        959          100   1,        00   1,       00             90 1,0090                  C,CUR         1,92I9                         9 1,000      1.009             1,092    n,           1,00            900
3nrr-enta1                                     300             95             93           505           300            492           52             9 500 3                     592            59252                         0 500                    592    500                   592N          3PM
p-reaE CiCeot  YiCld  (kg/h.)                       75            24    t        24            62             75           CUR            125            75           LO5            125           125            .7       ,         05       175         125           125             95            75
IncrGental ODoa,one Pr dD iDd-t   (a loae)        (,941           397           699          2,721         3,356          4,475         5,593          3,356         5,593         5,593          5,593         5,593          3,356         5,593       5,593         5,593          5.593         3,356
s. 005a Anna
ABr 1Onpruotd (h.)
lonual                            ~~~~~~          ~~~    ~~1,219  548  2,019  1300            000            -             -                            -                    -              -                    -            -                   -
CPMaatiCr                                     1,219         1,707          3,706         5,06         5,306          5,386         5,306          5,306         5,396          5,338 s,sB3 5,386                          3,386         5,306      5,306          5,386         536,36
Sp-Jd Effe.t Open (An)
BoaRani                            ~~~~          ~~~~           ~~~305  137  593                                                                -             -            -                     -             ----------
0PMLttlaRI                                     305            49             907           907            947           947           947            907                         947            907            947           947            947       947            947           947            947
-r o3et PnrllRlpnnet                         1,600          1,042            955         1,20            ,300         1,40          1,500          1,20          t 1,510G ,59                 1,30           50,3          1,2          1,5        1,592          1,500         1,3O           1,200
On,, Projerl 06rRlolDnaln        ~1,300            670           860            93C         1,000         10090          1,933           900          1,00          1,09          1,933          1,00            900          1,00       0,00          1,0)3          I,ow            909
Iaornn,rOnl                        ~~~~          ~~~~300  355    93            250           306            42            592            3W      00    59259                         00           500            300                 ~      500 59259                                310
S,r- dlnC S rre nealt Yie1d (kg/06)                 75            93             24            62             75           125 175                       75           125            105           1O5            17             755           L75       L25            L25           125             75
OlorPMnllnl Croaolnol 0000101000 )n (= t )         388            698           382          1,330         1,607          2,249         2,811          1,687         7,01l         2,811          2,811         2,811          1,607         2,91l      2,811         2,811          2,811         1,687
TotaI lD-r-tenlal Gro.n.a.. d rand.tion (a lQW)       1,434         ;,095          1,081         4,051          5,043         6,774         8,404          5,043         8,404          8,404         6,404          0,404         5,043          8,404     B,404          8,404         8,404          5,043
0nrare  Yrra(no  Naaasennrn,oni,Rournllraavlarnaprt roaec,7hlaCaeia



RURAL UIVRLRDMENT 1R0JR17 (Cr 644-0_)
- -   -                                      AUtnsO~~------ - -- - --- -- - -- -
1978/79       1979/50       1980/81        1981/82       1982/83        1993/84       1984/85       1995/6         1986/87       1987/H         1988/89       1989/9D       1998/91        1991/H9       1992/93       1993/94        199k/95       199V/96
A. RDP Art
Are  Ip-d  (hc): 
Mn~~~~~~Aa1                     0~~~~~~96       24            133           132            LHE            -                     -                                   -             -             -              -             -             -                            --
U,Acat1e                                    996          1.021         1.15O         1,289          1,427         1,427         1.427          1.427         1,427         1,427          127 7         1,4i7          1.4,427 427                 1.427          1.407         1,427          1.427
Yield  (%Sil.)                                                                                                                                                      5              42            47           147           1,2142                        47i47
?rojtot Otrttnlitntt                      1 180           9aJ          1,0           1H200          1,300         1,5HE         1,58          1 ,287         1,587         1,500          1,5HE         ISHE           1,20C         1,187        1,500          1,501          1,500          1,200
Ncc PJoect Prtci ts                        00             8549 6        85o    8                   I58  1   o     1,00                        1,007 .7801,                               l,,87   1,087                 . '         1,087        1,0            1,             1,00            900
Innretal                                    187            49            150           270            3HE            HE           SHE            3HE           581           587            587 -HE39                                  5HE           587            587           587            300
ontend:t. l Prolettino  (I tons)                   8             '1           m77          302             428           714            714           428           704            714           714           714            428           714          n74             n4            714            n4
B.   r Amn
Anns lrnved (bn):
A ..A                                        -             52             42            UU-           125            -             -              -             -              -             -             -              -             -             -              --                           -
c.lwtie                                      -             52             94           2C0           33             331           331_           333           331           331            331           331            331           331           33i            31            331            331
Ptojetl P.rtlnSte                            -            930         1,000          1,287         1, 38          1 5,          1,57          0,2co          1 587         17             1,58          1,505          1,3           1 580 1                     1 587         1,50          1,247
to  Pojo  NcttWt                                           6             158            38 ~       1,087          1, 087        1,0             908          1,08          1,087:        1,08           1,08            920          1, 087       1,08           1,870          1,00            980
1-   ueol                                    -             '            150            270           387           787            SHE           3              587           587            587           587            387           587           587           58             587            38
Io-tnole 7tt (=tccu                                   -              3             14            71            99            166           166             99           166           166            166           16699                        166           166            166           166             99
TOTA  D ALA  R7C2 PR80DUCTION 1 tool                 164           108            1t7           372            527           890            320           527           880            880           088           888            527          R8O             880           88O           878            527
So..c.:  `roject 8tntes     U-o. , t. 1rs1o          P-jOn -et 703517, The 1.8701



3 37 -
THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPM8ET PROJECT (Credit 644-G')
Economic Price of GI.o.dnuts
1976177    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    [984/85   1985/86    1986/87    1987/88   1988/89    1989/90    1990/91
('IF iceterdee (iroa,sdoae -
(oscres c01U5/.t)                          488        586         592        529        965         528        435         518        652         749        8908        867        926          985      1045
LIF Molter/ce Urossdo:ccc
)coc -taoo 80/81 078/mi)                   800        891         758        592        565         554        435         544        632         674        679         676        685          690       690
Freight (c-ouc-nt 80/81 USS/ct)             25         30          35         40          50         SE          53         55          57         57         58          58         59           60        60
FOB0 (c8escer 90/BI ULS/mc)                775        861         723        552        515         503         382        489        575         617        621         618        626          630       630
f-ch-nge  Rate (/91 per US$3-              2.35       2.10        1.97       1.80        1.70       2.10       2.12        2.12       2.12        2.12        2.12       2.72       2.72        2.12       2.12
FOB (cost-ec    Dal/cc)                  1822       1808        1424       994        876         1057       809         1036       1220        1308       1316        1311       1328        1335       1335
Shellieg Rate 1-                         0.67       0.67       0.67        0.67       0.7         0.7        0.7         0.7        0.7         0.7        0.7         0.7        0.7        0.7         0.7
Unshelied (D/mt)                         1221       1211       954         666        613         740        567         726        854         916        921         918        929         934        934
Col lectton costs-/
(colrrect DaL/mt)                       93.1       716.3     111.1       117.1        123         123        123         123        123         123        123         123     . 123         123         123
707004ic-ti-0 costs
(correec Dal/ct)                        23.9        37.9      23.1        22.6         22          22         22          22         22          22         22         22          22         22          22
Notieclog colsta-
(coerce)L Eal/mt)                        15.1       13.6      13.5        14.3         15          I           15        [5         15          I5          IS         IS         IS         1          13
Sub-tocal
(current Dal/mt)                     132.1      168.3       147.7        154        160         160        160        160         160        160         160        760         760        160         160
Intrerediace0 cost-s-
(constase 88/81 cal/ct)                183.6       207.0      166.9        164.8      [60         [80         60         160        160         160        160         160        160         160        160
Eo-farm  Economic VaIue
(ccontaet 80/81 Dal/nc)                  1037       1004       787         501        433         580        697         566        694        756         761         757        769         774        774
1/ torrec  pricec:  These aee the average thrrent  prices ef the years indicat- d; e.g. the 1978/79 gr.c.de...    price is  the a-errge of the geouedests price For 1978 Ind 0979.  The currect
rltie-  for t976/799)  ra. 424, 551, 618, 565, 993, 636, 420, 450, 585, 719, 778, 837, 896, 955, 1014, 1075 e-p-e-sad in US2/ct.
2/  Onchaosge eaten:  The r-tes for 76/77 to 81/82 are end of period rates phblishhd by [MP iL  the [oy 1982 iscue of IFS, P172-73, sad far 1982/83 eceards, the rate it  ehat -Ied by the
or-Id Bank.
3/       Ltote:    AS oroesult Of a low cr-p quality, the shelling rate has boee  0.67 daring 1976/77 tc 79/80 acd s-bsequently itp-o-nd to 0.7 thecealter.
4/  Loll ecrion Coscs:  coesiccs of h-edling, tranes-oc. srorage, Lrccrance and trod-rs ailosoore - obtined froe source  (2), Appe-dit  3/IV.
5/  Marketleg costs: cooIIsitr  of boading, ohargogebeeboor daes -nd shippiyg Fe- - ohtained feom  -oarse  (2), Appendit 3/1V.
6/  inetrmdite costs:  The co-n-uer prite for Garbis hoe  eenued to drter-ine the ietermndiatt -osts  en oastant 1980/01 Dal1/t, niece three costr  are i-curred 1-c1l[y.
Soorte:  EPD.  .ucy, 1982 Coemodity Price Foretn-to nosld Bank. Table 3
UNDP/FAO.  Occcober 198.  Stdldie-  Itrattng to  -akbetisg and Pricing Pclicie-  for Ageisolt-rel Produce and lInpts ie ehe GCabia; Vol. I.



- 38 -
THE GAMdBIA
RURAL DEVELOPHEXT PROJECT (Credit 644-GM)
EconomiC Price of Rlce
1976/77    1977178   1978/U9   1979/H0   1980/81   1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    :984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88   1985/89    1989190    1990/1i
'hai 3/ ir:,teol Race FOB
Lur.mn 4 (LSS/or)              204         320       350         383       459         405        350        415        498        557         593        630        t6f        703        744
Th,i 57 hr.,teo Rice FOB -
:ocsra.i  l (US5ei)                     432        486        448        428         459        425        350        435        483         501        496        491        492        492         441
Disco.ni/ir l....iI Quality 3/             30.20       3.20       0.20       0.20       0.20       0.20       i.20       0.20        0.20       0.20       0.20         20 33    03.20      0.20        0.23
Si,h- IotA 1                             346        389        358        343        367        340        78i        344         386       401         399        393        394        394          193
Fre ightL
_l0 iot7t 19h0781 USS/ce)                sO         85       90.0       80.8       100.0      105.0      1.0.0      112.0       13.3      115.0      115.0       1;5.0      1135.0       5.0        15.0
(IF Rile Price
_ Co ..ac.  1980/81 US9/ct)             427        474        448        433        467         445        390        467        501        516        513         508        509        508         331
E-chac-r Rare -
(D,l  pcr US$)                         2.35       2.10       1.97       1.80        1.70       2.10       2.12       2.12       2.12        1.12      2.12        2.121      2.12       ?.12        2.12
7IF1 RIce Prcle
fC_.t_:_  1980/81 Dal/ct3              1002        996        883         780        794        934        826        976       1063       1094        1088       1077       1380       5078        5077
Pert  Ihaegri                              3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30        3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30        1.30        3.30
Sab-ictnil                             1032        1026       913         810        824        964        857       1066       1093        1124       1119       1107       111        . 108       110l
Traiipart to Mill                          20.0       20.0       20.0       25.0       30.0       30.0        31.0       32.0       33.0       33.0       33.0       33.0       33.0        15.0        35.0
3..v-t:iR.,l                            1012       1016       893         785        794        934        825        974       1060        1091       1086       107t       1077       1073       I172
MIlallR.-te                               0.58       0.58       0.58       0.60       0.60       0.65       0.65       0.5         0.65       0.65       0.65       0.65       0.65       0.05         0.bS
Shb--a,.lR                               587        583        518        471        477        608        537        633        689         709        706        698        699        697         699
MN11-tl a :->t.                            17.0       1910       21.0       22.0       24.0        24.0       24.0       24.0       24.0       24.0       24.0       24.3       24.0        24.3        20.0
Phiedling ChanIeg                          52.0       58.0       64.0       69.2       72.0       72.0        72.0       72,0       72.0       72.0       72.0       72.0       72.0       72.0         72.3
i.o<navt c.lcora ay P.dd, -oo-f-rv
Ccflnnstavt 1980/HI Dal/ci)            518        506        433         380        381        512        441        537        593        613        610        602         504        602         /01
I/  larrenc  Prices:  Tlhe .srtnt prices are  Rhe averago FPO  price-  of Thai 52 broien rice for the  CR0 yeo-  indicated.  For es1e. the current price of r.cc for 1976/77 Ic tne.coesce
of thc prices far 1976 and 1977.  The current pricen of cite from 1976 tC  1991 are:  255, 272, 368, 331, 43A, 483, 326, 373, 456, 539, 57S. 611.  648, 684. 721. 767 csptetsei in 240/vt.
2/  Ce-stact 80/81 US4  mt:  The 1-tervatio-al Peice Indice-  pobliahed by EPD of the World Eack have been aied te obtain  -o-stant 80/81 pr-cre.
3/  Dis-ocet Fattor:  The di-coe.t Lattor of 200 is used to Rpe.enoate for the quaiity differeetialn.  The  illiog rate, villeg avd haodliog chargec  have bero cbhrired Iron PFU.
4/  Esciac r Rates:  The ratet for 1976/77 to 1981/82 are end of pericd rarco poblished by I1F IL  the Hay 1982 isnoe of IFS, p.age  172-173, and fo- 1982/83 ocordO,  roe t                 arh   t  thai  -.d
BY the World Havk.
S--rce:  1.  E.U. - Jsly. 1982 Co-aodity Price F-.e.aa.t Worid Bank
2.  UNDP/FA0.  OcRiber 1981.  Stadtet relotiDg to Marketing aod Peiilg Policiei  for Agrieult-ral Produce aod Inpots it the Gabha-   Vol. I
3.  IMF,  May 1982.  Ivternaiiongi Fivoncial St-tintics.  VtI. XXXV, No. 5.



39 -                                Table7
THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 644-GM)
Economic Costs and Benefits
Project Costs
(Constant 1980/81 Dalasis)
Year           Capital       0 & M             Project Benefits       Net Benefits
1976/77          4502.31       0.00                     0.00             4502.31
1977/78         17734.14       0.00                     0.00            17734.14
1978/79          4976.44       0.00                  1226.00             3750.44
1979/80          4724.84    497.30                   1953.00             3269.14
1980/81          4454.59   1237.93                   2814.00             2878.52
1981/82          2535.12   1393.46                   5488.00             1559.42
1982/83            0.00    2202.63                   5968.00             3765.37
1983/84            0.00    1999.88                   7284.00             5284.12
1984/85            0.00    1999.88                   8747.00             6747.12
1985/86            0.00    2113.23                   6238.00             4124.77
1986/87            0.00    1999.88                   9176.00             7176.12
1987/88            Q.00    1999.88                   9445.00             7445.12
1988/89            0.00    2113.23                   9539.00             7425.77
1989/90            0.00    1999.88                   9552.00             7552.12
1990/91            0.00    1999.88                  10113.00             8113.12
Economic Rate of Return:  7.3%



- 40-                                           Table 8
THE GAMBIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 644-GM)
KEY INDICATORS
1978/79                  1979/80                  1980/81
A!'      E?2/   %         A         E     Z         A        E       Z
A. PROJECT PHASING
Number of Compounds                                 1,360       500    272    890        900    99       1,500       800   188
Total crop under improved pro-           (ha)       4,277    5,340       80    676   10,840       6      3,125    9,720    32
duction of which (a) groundnuts          (ha)       3,281    2,650    124    648    5,380    12          2,992    4,750    63
(b) rainfed rice   41(ha)          996    1,930       52      28    3,950      1        133    3,520       4
(c) dryland cereals- (ha)           -        760      -        -    1,510      -         -      1,450      0
B.  INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 5/
No. farming centers upgraded                           12         6    200        -         4     0
No. produce markets constructed                        -         16      -        -         -     -
No. produce markets improved                           22         6    273        -        -      -
No. livestock markets constructed                      -         10      -        -        -      -
No. of holding grounds constructed                      2         2    100        -         -     -
No. of buying points                                    4        10      40       -        -      -
Feeders roads (km)                                     -        100      -        -      100      -         20      100     20
C.  SEED QUANTITIES-Issued under Credit
Groundnuts                               (tons)       392       350    112      60       560    11         373      573     65
Upland rice                              (tons)        74        60    123        1      106      1          9      108       8
Alluvial rice                            (tons)        -        110      -        -       178     0         -       183       -
Sorghum                                  (tons)        -          3       0       -        6      0         -         8      0
D.  FARM INPUTS-on Credit
Fertilizer - Groundnuts                  (tons)       410       398    103       81      806    10         228      750     30
Alluvial                   (tons)       175       275      64      5       564      2         33     543       6
Upland rice                (tons)        -          -      -       -         -      -         -         -      -
Sorghum                    (tons)        -          -     -        -         -      -         -         -      -
Or implements - Hoes                     (unit)       667       391    171    294        844    35         594      715      83
Seeders                 (unit)    1,038        391    265    314        844    37         512     715      72
Cart                    (unit)       298       391     76    208        844    25        571      715      80
Oxen                                     (pair)       504       333    151       60      717    15       1,020      608    168
E.  ECONOMIC-farmgate value 6/
Groundnuts   (1980/81  Dal/mt)                        787       494    159    502        437   115         453      534     85
Paddy         (1980/81  Dal/mt)                       433       754      57    380        727    52        381      721      53
Notes:   1/  Figures are actuals of the Project.
2/ Appraisal estimates
3/ Actuals expressed as a percentage of appraisal estimates
4/ Dryland cereals were not subject to project improvement.
5/ The first and second project years have been combined.
6/ The latest available world groundnut and paddy prices (July 1982) have been used
to derive the actual economic farmgate values.






IBRD 11974
TO CIIKAR                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAUR TANIA  ,IAY16
BAGLACK                  B BKELANJ 7g 
~~ABBENE  ~~~THE GAMBIA                                                                           BBASNGL   B
:AG91 CUBLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                GAMBIAM A LAI
B:                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iCAGST  HN
1.P LLOL                          *6617O;A                                     7'-
S-h/ All-a,,7, 72c,,,
72~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IL 'PAA.Af
SARA GOB               BANUL  '  B  BREBI  67                                                                                                                             ORSL                 B
SUKUB       KA  CREEK   -7-- -s '7.                                                                                                                                                              /DARI -        JS
B                                 A                                                                                                                                                            SGS                I/RET~O
70   ABBONG DIARP(BA',                                                  
EDAGONAS
14-                                                                                        A                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED BEGCAIOA  HEAOGAABrERS
AG RICALTURAL EXPERIMEW7AL STATION
0    7     5    70   75   20   IS                       PA6ED ROADS
Mes                           ~~~~~~~~OPSER P-RINIAL ROADS
S  C,  0  0  5  p252                                    BECODARY  EBOAUS
TO                                                                                                               DIVISIONAL BOUNU.IIES      11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IISOA   OAORBS IIIlASITENTSACEOSAIS 570 ~ I~7517
z                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES       0 k~dA47AI5



