CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 644 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Rural Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 19, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1976 between THE REPUBLIC OF THE
GAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to as-
sist in the financing of part of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) to assist in
the financing of part of the Project and BADEA has agreed to make
a loan to the Borrower in an amount equivalent to three million
three hundred thousand dollars ($3,300,000) for this purpose;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Government of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to assist in the
financing of part of the Project by an allocation of one million
five hundred thousand Pounds Sterling (El,500,000) from the capi-
tal aid grant of five million Pounds Sterling (E5,000,000) made
available in 1976 and the Government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland has also agreed to make avail-
able technical assistance to help in the implementation of the
Project under its Technical Assistance Programme to The Gambia;
and
(D) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
VFW


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources;
(b) "GCU" means the Gambia Cooperative Union established
under the Borrower's Cooperative Societies' Act of 1951;
(c) "GPMB" means the Gambia Produce Marketing Board estab-
lished under the Borrower's Gambia Produce Marketing Board Act of
1973;
(d) "co-operative society" means a cooperative society regis-
tered under the Borrower's Cooperative Societies' Act of 1951;


﻿-3-
(e) "Project Area" means the Western, Lower River and North
Bank administrative divisions of The Gambia;
(f) "BADEA Loan" means the loan referred to in Recital (B)
above; and
(g) "UK Grant" means the allocation from the capital aid
grant referred to in Recital (C) above.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to four million one hundred thousand dollars ($4,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1986, and ending February 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on February 1, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the pur-
poses of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering, financial and agricultural
practices and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall through its Central Bank make avail-
able to GCU on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation part of the proceeds of the Credit in an amount equiva-
lent to two million two hundred thousand dollars ($2,200,000)
or such other sum as the Borrower and the Association may deter- £
mine.
(c) The Borrower shall send to the Association for its
comments the Ministry's annual estimates of departmental expendi-
ture for the Project before they are finalized.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and tech-
nical assistance personnel whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment (including terms of reference)
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
the Projects Coordinating Committee described in Part I of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement with powers, responsibilities, staff,
facilities and resources satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall appoint on terms and conditions (in-
cluding terms of reference) satisfactory to the Association a quali-
fied and experienced person as the Project Coordinator for the Proj-
ect. Part I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall apply with respect
to the duties and responsibilities of the Project Coordinator.
(c) The Borrower shall appoint on terms and conditions (in-
cluding terms of reference) satisfactory to the Association, a
qualified and experienced person as Project Officer for the Project
to assist the Project Coordinator. Part 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement shall apply with respect to the duties and responsibil-
ities of the Project Officer.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause GCU to establish no
later than January 1, 1977, and maintain a revolving fund satis-
factory to the Association for the purpose of providing seasonal
and medium-term credit to farmers participating in the Project.
Section 3.05. The principal lending terms and conditions for
the Project shall be as set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall for the purposes of Part D
of the Project establish in the Ministry the Seeds Production
Committee, and maintain the Seeds Multiplication Unit, described
in Part II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The said Committee
and Unit shall have powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities
and resources satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-8-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall for the purposes of Part
F of thC Project establish in its Public Works Department no
later than October 1, 1977, a road construction unit satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Until the completion of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall send to the Association for its comments at the be-
ginning of each fiscal year of the Borrower work programs satis-
factory to the Association for field staff of the Borrower's De-
partments of Animal Health and Production, Cooperatives, and of
Agriculture participating in the Project and for the road construc-
tion unit mentioned in Section 3.07 of this Agreement. The work
programs shall cover work to be done during the 12 months period
following from the beginning of the fiscal year and shall in the
case of the road construction unit be agreed beforehand by the
Directors of the Borrower's Departments of Public Works and of
Agriculture and the Registrar of Cooperatives.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause all plant, equip-
ment, vehicles, properties and facilities included in the Proj-
ect to be maintained in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, engineering, financial and agricultural practices.
(b) The Borrower shall send to the Association for its
comments at the beginning of each fiscal year of the Borrower
a schedule satisfactory to the Association for the maintenance
of all plant, equipment, vehicles, properties and assets financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit. The said schedule shall be
prepared by the Project Coordinator mentioned in Section 3.03 (b)
of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall send to the Association for
its review the results of the studies on marketing of groundnut
crops and accounting procedures under Part G of the Project and
shall promptly implement such recommendations of the studies as
are acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that GCU does not
make any loans or extend credit to any cooperative society which
at the time of the application for the loan or credit has failed
to repay to GCU at least 95% of the value of any loans or credit
which have become due and payable.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause GPMB to provide funds
adequate to meet the cost of subsidizing fertilizer bought for
farmers participating in the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall discuss with the Association
every year the pricing of agricultural produce and inputs in The
Gambia.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall with respect to the Project:
(i) have the accounts and financial statements (statements of in-
come and expenses and related statements) of the Ministry, GCU
and the cooperative societies participating in the Project for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; (ii) cause the Ministry, GCU and the said coopera-
tive societies to furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months in the case of the


﻿- 11 -
Ministry and four months in the case of GCU and the cooperative
societies after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of their respective financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) cause the Ministry, GCU and the
cooperative societies to furnish to the Association such other
information concerning their respective accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall cause all goods and services for the Project financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services for the Project financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use there-
of in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gener-
al Conditions the following additional events are specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the law establishing GPMB or GCU shall have been amended,
suspended, waived or repealed so as to materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project;
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GPMB or GCU;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that GCU will be able to participate in the
Project; and
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the BADEA Loan and U.K. Grant
shall have been suspended, cancelled or ter-
minated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the respective loan or aid agreement.
(B) The BADEA Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿(ii) Subparagraph (i) above shall not apply if the Bor-
rower establishes to the satisfaction of the Asso-
ciation that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the respective loan or aid
agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
gations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that, any event specified in para-
graph (a) or (b) or (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, the execution and delivery of the agreements providing for
the BADEA Loan and the U.K. Grant.
Section 6.02. The date November 16, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Trade of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia
West Africa
Cable address:
MINFIN
The Republic of The Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-1-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ Alhaji Ibrahim Garba Jahumpa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, plant,            2,286,000
farm inputs and
equipment:
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) imported and                             90%
procured lo-
cally
(2) Work oxen                     611,000         90%
(3) Consultancy services          513,000         100%
and fellowships
(4) Operating and local           244,000         100%
staff costs of the
Project Coordinator's
office
(5) Unallocated                   446,000
TOTAL       4,100,000


﻿-19   -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
orocee- ds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Associa-
tion.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures for Part C (5)
of the Project under Categories (1) and (2) until the Association
notifies the Borrower that it is satisfied that the Borrower has
established a Livestock Marketing Board under competent management
and on sound legal and financial basis.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be


﻿20-
insufficient to finance the agreed percentages of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase and improve cereal and
cash crop production and livestock husbandry in The Gambia and
to strengthen the Borrower's agricultural extension services.
The Project includes the following:
A.   (1) Upgrading of about 10 mixed farming centers and the
provision at each such center of suitable living and
office accommodation and storage facilities for tools,
farm inputs and produce, provision of improved water
supplies and suitable transportation for the use of the
Ministry's agricultural assistants and demonstrators in
the Project Area.
(2) Establishment at Mansa Konko of a regional headquarters
of the Ministry including the provision of necessary
office and living accommodation for staff involved.
(3) Provision of training aids for the use of extension
workers; the construction and equipment of a suitable
building for the Extension Aids Unit at the headquarters
of the Borrower's Agricultural Department; and the pro-
vision of about 6 months' fellowship for an agricultural
assistant to study the operation of similar extension
aids units in other African countries.


﻿- 22 -
B.   (1) Development of a functional numeracy program in the
Project Area through the Borrower's Agricultural Exten-
sion Services.
(2) Training of agricultural extension workers participat-
ing in the said program including fellowships to study
similar schemes in other African countries.
(3) Provision of suitable accommodation, transportation,
teaching equipment and materials for the said extension
workers.
C.   (1) Animal health campaigns including vaccination of cattle
against contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, anthrax,
blackquarter and pasteurellosis and of sheep and goats
against rinderpest.
(2) Provision of laboratory equipment for the Central
Laboratory at the Borrower's Veterinary Headquarters
and of equipment for field diagnosis of animal diseases
at field clinics and suitable transportation for staff
of such clinics and construction and equipment of a
classroom and a library at the said Central Laboratory.
(3) Program to improve access of livestock to existing
natural fodder and water resources involving the acqui-
sition of a drilling rig, and the manufacture of con-
crete posts, for the demarcation of cattle routes.


﻿- 23 -
(4) Provision of cattle on credit to farmers participating
in a village cattle fattening scheme.
(5) Development of marketing network involving construction
of about 10 small buying points each consisting of a
few holding pens, weigh scales, water point and office
and the establishment of 2 holding grounds (about 150 hec-
tares each), development of a limited series of stock
routes to selected points on the Gambia River and pro-
vision of suitable transportation to facilitate super-
vision of construction under this Part of the Project.
D.   Provision of credit to farmers to purchase seed, seed dressings,
fertilizer, draught oxen, implements ard other farming inputs.
E.   Establishment of a seed multiplication unit at the Sapu Re-
search Station, expansion of the station's agricultural re-
search program and provision of suitable living and office
accommodation, and other necessary facilities for the unit.
F.   Strengthening of the cooperative movement through the train-
ing of staff and members of the cooperative societies and the
establishment of a residential cooperative training center,
upgrading of cooperatively owned storage and marketing
facilities, provision of necessary living and office accommo-
dation and transportation.


﻿- 24 -1
G.   Construction of crop extraction roads to serve agricultural
areas, link produce markets and villages with existing main
roads.
H.   (1) The provision of consultancy services for: (i) a study
to determine the policies, procedures and investments
required to promote the marketing of groundnut crop;
(ii) a feasibility study of Jakhaly Swamp; (iii) the
preparation in collaboration with the Ministry's
Planning Unit of a further agricultural development
project in The Gambia; and (iv) a study of the staffing
and procedures of the Ministry's accounts and audit
unit.
(2) Provision of technical assistance (including the services
of a Senior Seeds Officer, a Seeds Analyst and 2 Agrono-
mists) for the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of farm inputs and farm equipment and for vehicles and
other equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of farm inputs and farm equipment
and for vehicles and equipment costing the equivalent of less than
$50,000 shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding af-
ter local advertising in accordance with local procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
2.   Work oxen shall be procured by direct purchases from licensed
buying agents or the Livestock Marketing Board.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 26-
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execution and


﻿- 27 -
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
I.   Projects Coordinating Committee
1). The Projects Coordinating Committee shall consist of the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry as Chairman, the Project
Coordinator as Secretary, a representative of the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Economic Planning and of any other organi-
zations participating in the Project. The Projects Coordinating
Committee shall, inter alia, be responsible for review and moni-
toring of the Project, establishment of guidelines for implement-
ing the Project and proper coordination of the Project activities
of participating organizations.
2). The Project Coordinator shall be directly responsible to
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry and shall, inter alia,
be responsible for:
(a) the preparation during the first two years of the
Project of (i) financial estimates and annual work programs in
cooperation with heads of the organizations participating in
the Project; and (ii) initiating on behalf of the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry the implementation of the various
Parts of the Project; and
(b) until the completion of the Project, (i) preparation
of tenders for bulk procurement of materials and equipment for
the Project; (ii) initiating collection and analysis of data for
preparation of the studies included in Part G of the Project;
(iii) initiation and coordination of requests for technical as-
sistance; (iv) initiation and direction of work associated with


﻿- 29 -
studies included in Part H of the Project; (v) monitoring dis-
bursement of project funds; (vi) preparation of claims for re-
imbursement; (vii) compilation of progress reports for aid donors
for the Project; and (viii) coordination of external visits to
the Project.
3). The Project Officer shall during the first two years of
Project implementation be directly responsible to the Project Co-
ordinator, and shall during the said period assist the Project
Coordinator in the carrying out of the duties set out in Part 1
(2) (a) of this Schedule. During the remaining period of Project
implementation he will be responsible for such of the day-to-day
responsibilities of the Project Coordinator as the Borrower, with
the agreement of the Association, shall decide.
II. Seeds Production Committee and Seeds Multiplication Unit
1). The Seeds Production Committee shall include the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry as Chairman and the Director of Agri-
culture. The Senior Seeds Officer mentioned in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement shall be the Committee's Secretary.
2). The Seeds Production Committee shall assist in the prepara-
tion of laws regulating seed multiplication and shall have over-
all responsibility for seeds production, processing, storage,
marketing and for the release of new proven varieties into the
seed multiplication system.


﻿- 30 -
3). The Senior Seeds Officer shall be responsible for produc-
tion of seed and shall head the Seed Multiplication Unit. The
Senior Seeds Officer shall administratively be responsible to the
Director of Agriculture.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   Borrower to GCU
(a) Annual interest rate shall be not less than 3%.
(b) Repayment at the end of 7 years.
2.   GCU to cooperative societies
(a) Annual interest rate shall be not less than 6%.
(b) Repayment at the end of 10 years, including 3 years of
grace.
3.   Cooperative societies to farmers participating in the Project
(a) Annual interest rate shall be not less than 11%.
(b) Repayment for seasonal credit shall be in full in next
groundnut marketing season and for medium term credit
in three equal installments in the marketing period
following the delivery of oxen and equipment to the
farmers concerned.


﻿- 32 -
4.   Miscellaneous
(a) Seasonal or medium term credit shall be provided to
farmers for farming inputs, oxen and ox-drawn equip-
ment. Seasonal credit shall be provided for purchase
of seed, seed dressings and fertilizer and medium-
term credit for oxen, multipurpose tool bar, plough,
cultivator, seeder, groundnut lifter and cart.
(b) Farmers shall be required to make a down payment equal
to not less than 10% of the value of oxen or equipment
given on credit.
(c) Credit shall be limited to members of cooperative
societies. Heads of compounds will apply to the
Secretary of the Cooperative Society concerned for
credit. The Secretary will consolidate all credit
applications. Field officers of GCU and the respon-
ble agricultural assistants will appraise individual
applications and make recommendations thereon. These
will require the final approval of GCU's head office.
(d) Farming inputs and implements will be procured by
GPMB. Oxen will be supplied through licensed cattle
buyers or the Livestock Marketing Board. Credit will
not be granted for oxen until the agricultural and
veterinary assistants concerned approve their suitability.
(e) Credit will be recovered by the cooperative societies
at times of groundnut and rice sales.


