Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFOREMD COPY 
October 25, 2010 
 
H.E. Dimitri Shashkin 
Minister of Education and Science 
Ministry of Education and Science 
52, Uznadze Str/ 
Tbilisi, 0102 Georgia 
 
Re:  Georgia: Additional Financing for the EFA-FTI Education Program Development Fund 
Participation of Georgia in the International Assessments of  
Student Learning Achievement 
EFA-FTI EPDF Grant No. TF094610 
 
Dear Mr. Minister: 
 
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Georgia (
“Recipient”), 
I
am pleased to inform you that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(“World Bank”), acting as administrator of grant funds provided under the Education for All Fast 
Tract Initiative Education Program Development Fund (EFA-FTI EPDF), proposes to extend to 
the Recipient an additional grant in an amount not to exceed one hundred fifty thousand United 
States Dollars (U.S.$150,000) (“Grant”) on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
letter agreement (“Agreement”), which includes the attached Annex, to assist in the financing of 
the project described in the Annex (“Project”).  This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned 
trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 
3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may 
withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds. 
 
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter 
into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement. 
 
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized 
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to 
the World Bank.  Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement 
shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature; provided, however, that
 
the offer  
Page  2
2
of this Agreement shall be deemed withdrawn if the World Bank has not received the 
countersigned copy of this Agreement within ninety (90) after the date of signature of this 
Agreement by the World Bank, unless the World Bank shall have established a later date for 
such purpose. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Elene Imnadze 
Acting Country Director 
South Caucasus Country Department 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/    H.E. Dimitri Shashkin                
Authorized Representative 
 
Name:  Mr. Dimitri Shashkin 
Title: 
Minister of Education and Science 
 
Date:  
November 22, 2010 
 
Enclosures: 
 
(1) 
Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, 
dated July 1, 2008. 
 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter dated, October 25, 2010, together with World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006. 
Page  3
EFA-FTI EPDF Grant No. TF094610 
ANNEX 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
Standard Conditions.
 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out 
of Various Funds dated July 1, 2008 (
“Standard Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Definitions.  
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement. 
 
Article II 
Project Execution 
 
2.01. 
Project Objectives and Description.
 
The objective of the Project is to support the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Education and Science (MoES) in its participation in international 
assessments of student learning achievement sponsored by the International Association for the 
Evaluation of Educational Achievement and administered through the Recipient’s National 
Examinations Center (NaEC).  The Project consists of the provision of consulting services to carry 
out the said international assessments of student learning achievement. 
 
2.02. 
Project Execution Generally.
 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Recipient’s 
National Curriculum and Assessment Center within MoES in accordance with the provisions of: 
(a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated  
October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”), with the modifications set forth in the 
Appendix to this Agreement; and (c) this Article II. 
 
2.03.
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the World 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.  In order to assist the 
Recipient in preparing the Completion Report, the Recipient shall employ consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
2.04. 
Financial Management.
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
Page  4
2
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar semester, covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the World 
Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Such audit of the Financial Statements 
shall cover the entire period during which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made.  The 
Recipient shall ensure that the audited Financial Statements for such period shall be: (i) furnished 
to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such period; and (ii) made publicly 
available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the World Bank.
 
2.05. 
Procurement.  
(a) General
.
All services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in 
Sections I (excluding paragraph 1.24) and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 
2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of 
consultants’ services. 
 
(b) Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this 
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
(ii) 
The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ 
services for those assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements set forth in the 
Consultant Guidelines for their use:  (A) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications;  
(B) Single-source Selection; (C) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (D) Sole Source 
Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
(d) 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
.
Except as the World 
Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the following contracts shall be 
subject to Prior Review by the World Bank:  the first contract to be awarded in accordance with 
each procurement method and each Single-source contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Article III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
3.01. 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
Page  5
3
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table.  The table specifies the 
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
(“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
3.02. 
Withdrawal Conditions.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature 
of this Agreement by the Recipient. 
3.03. 
Withdrawal Period.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard 
Conditions is June 30, 2011. 
Article IV 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
4.01. 
Recipient’s Representative
.
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 
of the Standard Conditions is the Minister of Education and Science. 
4.02. 
Recipient’s Address
.
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
Ministry of Education and Science 
52, Uznadze Str. 
Tbilisi 0102, Georgia 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
 
(995 32) 43 88 25 
 
 
 
(995 32) 45 65 55 
 
4.03. 
World Bank’s Address
.
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the 
Standard Conditions is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Consultants’ services  
150,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000  
Page  6
4
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
5
APPENDIX 
 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or 
entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the 
individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity, 
including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible 
publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, 
for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or 
implementation of the project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the 
Bank, if at any time the Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity 
has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed contract 
upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier 
with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of any of its 
political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies that are 
Page  8
6
not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose of 
m
aking such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of 
sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining 
the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how 
cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and 
other stakeholders.”
 
