[)ocument ot'
The World Bank
Report No. 13776-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
FOR JAVA
APRIL 26, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1995)
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
$1.00 = Rp 2,200
Rp 1 million = $454
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April I - March 31



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APBD 11               - Annual local government development budget
APBN                  - Annual central government development budget
BAPPENAS              - National Development Planning Agency
BAPPEDA I/II          - Provincial/District Development Planning Agency
BPKP                  - Central Audit Bureau
BRI                   - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Bupati                - Head of Kabupaten
Cabang                - Branch
Camat                 - Head of Kecamatan
CAS                   - Country Assistance Strategy
DATI 1/11             - Provincial/District level government
DGBM                  - Directorate General Bina Marga (Roads), MPW
DGCK                  - Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements), MPW
DGB                   - Directorate General of Budget, MOF
DPUK                  - Kabupaten Department of Public Works
DIP/DIPDA             - Central/regional project budget
GOI                   - Government of Indonesia
INPRES                - Presidential Instruction, including a class of GOI grants
IDT                   - Inpres Desa Tertinggal (Program for Villages left behind)
ILO                   - International Labor Organization
Kabupaten             - District (Level 11)
Kecamatan             - Kabupaten administrative subdistrict
Kepala desa           - Elected head of village and of LKMD
KPKN                  - Provincial office of National Treasury
LKMD                  - Village community group
MoHA                  - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOF                   - Ministry of Finance
MPW                   - Ministry of Public Works
NGO                   - Non-governmental organization
OECF                  - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
Pimpro                - Project Manager from DPUK
PMD                   - Directorate General of Village Community Development (MoHA)
PMU                   - Project Management Unit
PODES                 - Village survey
Repelita              - Five-year Development Plan
SPABP                 - Special grant fund channel from Central to Local Government
SOE                   - Statement of expenditure
SUSENAS               - National socio-economic survey






- i -
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
Loan and Project Sunumary
Borrower:            The Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:       1,200 poor villages on Java with some 3 million people
Amount:              $72.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:     The proposed project aims at providing public infrastructure and
employment in 1,200 villages, the bottom 20% of the poorest or 6%
of all rural villages on Java. It includes a 2-3 year pilot program to
increase government decentralization, transparency and village
participation. Main features are: a) empowering villagers to decide,
with some economic criteria, priority uses of the village grant under the
project; b) creation of jobs paid in cash for poor villagers, especially
in periods of underemployment; c) development of skills for
constructing small public works--engineering assistance would be
provided to villagers to help with subproject design and achieving good
quality works; d) channelling of village grants through subdistrict
branches of Bank Rakyat Indonesia; e) mobilization of local
contributions for the works; and f) a monitoring program to review
progress while the project is underway and overall results, expost.
(OECF is helping finance an infrastructure project for poor villages off-
Java).
Benefits and Risks:  The project villages comprise on average more than 2600 persons,
some 3 million in total. With incomes around $1 per day, benefits
from the creation of jobs and monetary liquidity are important and
could lead to higher standards of living; some 2,000,000 job-months
might be created and the project could set a precedent for more labor
intensive works in future public programs. Economic returns to the
project infrastructure are expected to be high: currently many poor
villages are cut-off during the rainy season, making access to services,
markets and jobs difficult, while they lack water in the dry season; the
project would help overcome these constraints. Provision of other
small infrastructures chosen by the villagers would also have high
returns given that to be chosen the works have priority. A risk is a
lower absorptive capacity than expected, that could delay project



- ii -
implementation; for this event the project includes contingencies for
extending technical assistance services.  Another risk is improper
maintenance of assets to be created; under the project arrangements
would be agreed for subsequent maintenance, which should be a prime
concern to villagers for sustainability of benefits from the
infrastructures. A third risk is diversion of funds, but it should be low
as several layers of agencies are avoided and various monitoring
systems are introduced in the project.
Estimated Costs:
Description                 Local          Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
Goods, Works and Services   59.0             6.5           65.5
TA Implementation Support  10.0              1.0           11.0
Increased Administration     3.3             -              3.3
Subtotal                  72.3             7.5           79.8
Contingencies                3.8             0.2            4.0
Total                     76.1             7.7           83.8
Financing Plan:          Local       Foreign     Total         %
-------------------------- US$ million ---------------
GOI                      11.3        -           11.3         13.5
IBRD                     64.8        7.7         72.5         86.5
76.1       7.7          83.8        100.0
Disbursements:
-------------------------- US$ million -------------------
IBRD Fiscal Year       1996          1997         1998           1999
Annual                   30            35            5             2.5
Cumulative               30            65           70            72.5
Poverty Category:       Program of targeted interventions for poor villages on Java.
Estimated ERR:          Above 20% ERR, on account of the infrastructure deficiencies the
project would help alleviate.
Map:                    IBRD 26797: Village Clusters in the First Year Program.



- iii -
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT for JAVA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Project Background                 .......................                      .......................                 I
A.  Poverty Trends .............................................                                                   1
B.  Past and Ongoing Poverty Related Programs ...........................                                          1
C.  Rural Infrastructure  ..........................................                                               3
D.  Lessons Learned in Previous Bank Operations ..........................    4
E.  Bank Strategy for Poverty Reduction   ...............................    6
2. The Project                      ....................................                                                   6
A.  Project Origin and Formulation  ...................................                                            6
B.  Project Objectives  ...........................................                                                7
C.  Project Description   ..........................................                                               7
D.  Project Costs and Financing  .....................................    11
3.  Project Implementation                   ....................11.......................    1
A.  Project Coordination and Monitoring   ...............................   11
B. Implementation Schedule  .......................................    12
C.  Implementation of Works   ......................................   12
D. Procurement ..............................................   13
E.  Disbursements   .............................................    14
F.  Project Accounts, Reports and Audits  ...............................   16
G. Project Monitoring and Bank Supervision   ............................   17
H.  Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Compensation  .......................   17
1. Environmental Impacts .........................................    18
4.  Project Justification and Risks ......                 .............                 ....................    18
A. Justification  ...............................................    18
B.  Risks  ...................................................    20
5. Agreements Reached and Recommendation   .............................                                                  20
Annexes
1. Some Characteristics of Java Provinces
2. Villages Selected for First Year Program
3. Grant Authorization, Funds and Reporting Flows
4. Government Action Plan
5. Optimal Yearly Schedule
6. Contract Forms
7. Performance Indicators
8. Supervision Plan
9. Guidelines for Compensation for Land or Asset Acquisition
10. Sample Economic Returns
11. Documents in Project File
Map 26797 Village Clusters in First Year Program
The report is based on the findings of a preparation mission in October 1994, and an appraisal mission
in January 1995. The appraisal mission comprised Frida Johansen (Mission Leader) and Jacques Tollie
(Engineer); ESIU provided support. Messrs. J.M. Lantran and E. Jimenez were peer reviewers. Mr.
A. Khanna, Chief EA31N and Ms. M. Haug, Director EA3, have endorsed the project.






INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. POVERTY TRENDS
1.1        Indonesia has been successful in reducing the incidence of absolute poverty. The percentage
of the population living at or below the absolute poverty level was reduced from some 40% in 1976 to
some 15% in 1990. However, in view of the large population, about 185 million, the number of absolute
poor remains high: some 27 million people. These estimates result with an absolute poverty line defined
as enabling personal intakes of 2100 calories per day and minimum non-food necessities. Poverty
incidence is sensitive to the definition used, as many people still are just above the absolute line and
would be categorized as poor with less stringent standards. (Besides, there are many difficulties in
measuring poverty--identifying and imputing values to non-traded goods, considering price level
differentials across locations; identifying differing needs by location, type of employment, age, public
infrastructure availability, etc.; identifying pockets of poverty not apparent to outsiders from statistical
averages for larger areas, and so on.) The average disposable household income is only about a dollar
per day per person, even though the average GNP per capita has steadily grown to about $730 equivalent.
1.2        There is no doubt that poverty is an important rural problem. Poverty reduction has been
most remarkable in rural areas, but still, some 18 million poor remain in rural areas, many on marginal
lands, uphill, water scarce or remote areas, or fishing villages, or areas too densely populated to enable
a living from the resulting small farms, while alternative sources of income are still scant. Rapid
urbanization has absorbed many rural poor and even so the estimated number of urban poor has decreased
somewhat, to some 9 million in 1990. These numbers reflect a relatively similar urban and rural absolute
poverty incidence; other data, such as on infant mortality, suggest that the rural poverty incidence may
be higher and the urban, lower, emphasizing the problem in rural areas.
1.3        Java, with a population of 107 million of which only some 36% in urban areas (in 1990),
has one of the highest population densities in the world, of about 8 persons per hectare (Java has some
55% of Indonesia's population on only some 7% of the country's land area). In line with its share of
the population, Java has the most poor, some 55% of the total, more than 15 million (of the total number
of poor Sumatra comprises 19 % or some 5 million, Kalimantan 8 %, Sulawesi 5 %, Bali 1 %, and the other
islands, 1-3%; these shares are lower even though poverty incidences are higher in some outer island
provinces than on Java). Of Java's absolute poor, some 9 million live in rural villages.
1.4        The Bank has prepared two reviews of the poverty situation in Indonesia: "Strategy for a
Sustained Reduction in Poverty", in 1990, and "Public Expenditures, Prices and the Poor", in 1993. The
latter report has been an input to the Government's current poverty programs, on which this proposed
project also builds on.
B. PAST AND ONGOING POVERTY RELATED PROGRAMS
1.5        No doubt steady economic growth, of 6% per year over more than a decade by now, has
been a main contributor to poverty reduction in Indonesia. In addition to growth, government goals
included--and continue to include--stability and equity. As part of its policy the Government emphasized
regional development programs, with focus on agriculture and food self-sufficiency; socially oriented
programs, such as universal primary education, family planning, community health and nutrition; public
infrastructure development, including water supply, roads, electricity; village development programs,
credit programs, and more. The programs aimed at providing basic levels of services for all, and were



2
funded yearly through the central government budgets; international agencies provided assistance to some
of the programs. Given the overall low income levels prevailing, the Government did not generally try
to "target" the poor; also, given the overall low technical skills, the Government kept most planning and
implementation in central agencies. While steps are being taken to improve planning and implementation
of supply driven, basic standards, types of public programs that continue to be much needed, also, as
both incomes and income differentials have increased, new programs are increasingly targeted--such as
urban poverty, kampung improvement programs (KIP), the integrated area development schemes (PKT')-
-and increasingly developed and implemented with local level agencies and community participation.
Recent improvements in the national household socioeconomic survey (SUSENAS), incorporating
indicators of access to social services as well as consumption levels and representative at district level--
earlier smaller sampling made results representative only at provincial level--will allow better design and
monitoring of targeted programs.
1.6        The Government has made further poverty reduction one of its main objectives in the Five
Year Plan (Repelita VI) that started in April 1994. It is concerned that the number of poor remains large
and wants to accelerate the process of reducing poverty; it aims at decreasing poverty incidence to 6%,
less than 15 million persons, by the year 2000. The instruments foreseen to achieve this objective are
an outward oriented, labor-intensive based economic growth (expected to generate more than 2 million
new jobs per year), human resource development (especially expanded education and health programs),
and a new program targeted to poor villages (IDT, literally, villages left behind) as it fears that traditional
public programs may continue to bypass those most in need and are taking too long in being
implemented. and then, not always to desired standards and cost levels.
1.7        The Government launched its new IDT program, the Inpres Desa Tertinggal, in April 1994.
It is funded domestically with $200 million equivalent per year for three years. This pilot program is
innovative in many ways. It is targeted to more than 20,000 poor villages (see para. 1.8) that each
received some $10,000 equivalent seed capital, for the poorer villagers. The poor get access to working
capital, at low cost and in a simple and transparent way. Standard government agencies are bypassed but
"facilitators" (community workers) paid by the Government are available to assist villagers in
understanding the program, that has been widely publicised, and in defining "projects". Community self-
help groups (POKMAS) including women's groups (PKK) are central to the IDT process. The villagers
agree on who should be the beneficiaries of the funds, based on (low) incomes and proposed (productive)
uses of the funds; the beneficiaries have to repay the "village", as the funds are intended to become a
revolving fund for others to use subsequently. The subdistrict bank unit receives the grant from the
Government in a village account and disburses against a minimum of documentation to the village head
and the beneficiaries, and forwards records to the Government. The village heads also have to keep
records of beneficiaries and activities pursued, repayments, etc., records that are consolidated at the
provincial level and forwarded to Jakarta. IDT results so far are positive. Selected villagers surveyed
say they value the initiative and villages not included in the program question the selection method.
Funds are being used carefully--some villagers on Java bought cattle; the designated beneficiaries are able
to pay for the animal some months later by selling the offspring. Others bought sewing machines,
weaving materials, and so on. Some misappropriations of funds by officials were reported, some of them
via the P.O. Complaints Box 5000, that is well known to the Indonesian population. Unusually strong
action--dismissal--was taken against identified offenders, that should discourage improper conduct.
1.8        The selection of villages for the 1994 IDT program was made by the Planning Ministry
(BAPPENAS) and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA) based on the 1993 PODES socio-economic
1  GOI's area development scheme (PKT) was undertaken during 1989-93 and covered for one year each a total of
7,900 villages, nmainly for public infrastructure provision with village participation.



3
survey by the Bureau of Statistics, that considered three basic indicators: village facilities and potential
(10 variables), housing and the environment (8 variables) and population characteristics (9 variables).
Of the 65,554 villages in Indonesia, 20,633 had at least 2 of the 3 indicators below the set poverty
threshold and were thus defined as "poor". The large majority of these poor villages, 19,625, is "rural",
and 14,117 of the rural poor villages are outside Java-Bali. The population of the poor villages is 33
million, of which 18 million (55%) are in Java-Bali as the village size there (average 3,000 persons) is
3 times the average village size elsewhere; the percentage is in line with the proportion of the poor in
Java according to surveys of household expenditure (SUSENAS). The initial village selection had some
flaws for identifying consumption levels--for instance, too much weight was given to infrastructure
deficiencies that do not always reflect lowest consumption levels--and thus the selection for the 1995
program gave more prominence to expenditure levels; furthermore, villages in the 1994 program with
less than 500 residents will not receive further IDT allocations. As a result almost a third of the villages
selected changed for the 1995 program.
1.9        Central government transfers to local levels will continue to be important for equity
objectives, because the central government has most tax bases (oil, gas, import duties, etc.). Most
transfer categories are based on equal amounts per capita, per jurisdiction and per area size of the
jurisdictions. Many of the transfers are earmarked for specific uses, such as civil service salaries, but
one of Repelita VI's aims is furthering decentralization of functions, increasing participation in decision
making at local levels, and increasing targeting of programs by type and by region. As an example, as
of 1994 the INPRES for roads was discontinued and the amount was included in the INPRES block grant
that provides, rightly, increased flexibility in the use of funds at the local level. Decentralization will
continue as local agencies become more able; the central agencies are overwhelmed by the workloads
imposed by growing budgets and complexity that often result in delaying program implementation
unnecessarily. The FY1994/95 budget for regional development was Rp.5,340 billion, comprising
Rp.423 billion in transfers to villages (only Rp.6 million per village), transfers to kabupatens of Rp.2,418
billion (of which Rp.968 billion for roads), transfers to provinces of Rp.1,219 billion, subsidies to
primary schools of Rp.498 billion, subsidies to health centers of Rp.393 billion, and the IDT program
with Rp.389 billion. At the same time, local revenue efforts are promoted as local needs exceed available
budgets.
1.10       Given some evidence that incomes in rural areas are negatively affected by regulations and
practices restricting local trade and transport, the Government also endeavors to reduce such non-physical
restrictions. In the past, Government reform programs have tended to focus on external trade or centrally
visible constraints and less on what may seem smaller local level impediments, that however can have
a significant impact on farmgate price levels. Financing was made available under the Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 3385-IND) to identify non-infrastructure constraints to trade and transport and
help define an improvement action program for the rural areas. Study results were taken into account
for preparing a Government Action Plan, intended to reduce levies imposed on transporters at the district
level and to provide more information on producer prices to farmers (Annex 4).  As part of its
decentralization policy, the Government proposes to implement the Action Plan in parallel to the proposed
project.
C. RuRAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1.11       The Government has concentrated investment on infrastructure in projects of national,
provincial and district level importance.  Projects at these levels usually have a large number of
beneficiaries and high economic returns. In the case of roads, such projects are necessary to improve
or create basic networks that carry high traffic volumes, and thus normally have priority over subdistrict
or village access roads. As a result the road network currently comprises some 260,000 km of which
some 181,000 km of kabupaten roads--but access roads are not well developed, and given heavy rains



4
and difficult terrain and clayish soils in many locations, many villages are cut off during the rainy season.
Extending the road network to provide all weather though low standard access to villages is now a
priority, but because of the large number of villages it is costly even if improvements are achieved at
lowest possible costs. The road subsector already comprises some 20% of the development budget (some
Rp.5 trillion in FY95, almost as much as the whole regional development budget) and some reallocations
may be warranted.
1.12        Infrastructure needs at the subdistrict and village level have been addressed with smaller
government programs and with self-help. Since Pelita IV, the Government has classified villages in 3
categories for assistance: the poorest, to which both housing and public infrastructure assistance are
given; villages with potential, such as rural growth centers that need ad-hoc programs, and villages
already developing, for which only housing assistance is provided. The Ministry of Home Affairs (and
until 1993 also the Ministry of Public Works) helps implement the programs. By now about half the
villages have been provided some assistance; some 3,000/4,000 villages selected at the kabupaten level
are assisted every year. There have also been special programs such as the integrated area development
scheme (mentioned in para. 1.5). Currently INPRES provides sorne Rp.50 million per kabupaten for
village infrastructure. Most work is undertaken by the villagers, without pay or just enough to cover
some training and food costs, so that more funds are available to purchase inputs, a site engineer, often
a consultant, is assigned for 2-3 months to a village to help with implementation, if needed. The Army's
"corps of engineers" equivalent has also been active in improving small village infrastructures. Often
villagers improve infrastructure by themselves--under the "gotong royong" system all villagers mobilize
one day to accomplish a chosen task, or each villager is assigned responsibility for completing by a
certain date a given sub-task, such as improvement of a small road section. But villagers usually cannot
afford to buy any materials, such as stone, so that despite their efforts results are often of low standards
and short-lived. Thus, infrastructure service levels remain low. A 1994 study sponsored by OECF
estimated that providing for basic infrastructure "needs" (access roads, piers, drinking water, sanitation)
in all the poor Indonesian villages, at Ministry of Public Works unit costs, would cost Rp.2,757 billion.
1.13        Needs on Java are considerable.  Java has 18,194 villages of which some 6,000 rural
villages were classified by BPS in 1993 as "left behind", partly due to infrastructure deficiencies--in
roads, health facilities, schools, telecommunications, water supply, sanitation facilities, markets, waste
disposal systems. The above mentioned 1994 OECF-financed study estimated that for Java some Rp.312
billion were needed to provide facilities to 4,300 poor villages--or Rp. 174 billion for the poorest 765
villages. The report indicates that some 4,200 poor villages need improved access roads, some 2 km on
average per village, and that some 500 villages do not have clean drinking water. The cost of the needed
roads, water, piers and sanitation facilities was estimated at some $33,000 average equivalent per village,
based on MPW unit costs (average unit costs were $16,000 per kilometer of road (including bridge
needs), $23,000 per water supply scheme and $3,000 per pier). However, the 765 poorest villages have
costlier needs, being less endowed in infrastructure and normally located in areas of more difficult access;
their requirements were estimated at some $110,000 average equivalent per village--for an average 4 km
access road with bridge(s); a water scheme to tap rain, surface or ground water; and 300 piers, on rivers
or seashores, in 200 of the villages. (Annex 1, Tables 1, 2, 3). Even these needs, prior to including the
needs for other types of infrastructure, are unlikely to be met with current budgets (para. 1.9); so far
funds available for localized needs have not increased despite some increased decentralization. However,
foreign agencies are assisting with several programs.
D. LESSONS LEARNED IN BANK OPERATIONS
1.14        Many ongoing Bank projects in Indonesia have components targeted to the poor--health,
nutrition and family planning; education; agriculture; rural water supply; kabupaten roads; urban projects.
Most of these projects are implemented by national government agencies and a few district level agencies



5
following standard budgetary processes, overheads and budget cycles. Implementation takes normally
5 or more years; the experience from several projects was reviewed for the proposed project: (a) the
Bank's 3 ongoing kabupaten road projects, each covering different areas of Indonesia (on Java, only West
Java), essentially seek to upgrade some 20 km of roads per kabupaten per year and to improve overall
road maintenance. The implementation record is good in terms of number of kilometers improved, but
is behind expectations in terms of construction quality, unit costs (especially in Eastern Indonesia) and
institutional development. The experience of a labor intensive pilot scheme being implemented on Java
with assistance from ILO under one of the kabupaten road projects was useful for the proposed project;
(b) the Yogyakarta Upland Area Development Project (Loan 3305-IND, 1992), aims at improving the
incomes and living standards of upland residents, mainly farmers, on a sustainable basis through better
resource management. Of interest to this project, is that the Yogyakarta project is also of a participatory
nature and includes provision of infrastructure, and that the mid-term review in June 1994 revealed road
and bridge construction to be the most successful component, with physical targets achieved or exceeded
through considerable local contributions that stretched the project funds, even though cost-effectiveness
was not considered as good as achievable; (c) under the Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income
Communities Project (Loan 3629-IND, 1993) communities should participate in deciding the type of
service level they want within a village allocation, and have collected contributions to upgrade standards
of works the allocation could finance; however, the project had a slow start, and it is too early to judge
results.
1.15       Experience with locally managed small irrigation works on Java is considered to be good:
there was grassroot participation in planning, agreement on work details and schedule, and beneficiary
villagers were usually hired as wage labor for construction. Works were undertaken mainly by small
contractors; contractor capability for small works is good and competitive. Some works were constructed
by villagers themselves, based on prevailing unit rates for construction items (not on a wage basis). The
design was handled entirely by provincial based consultants while overall supervision was by the
provincial level public agency. The irrigation schemes cost between $10,000 and $60,000 equivalent and
were on an annual construction basis.  The experience in constructing village roads under rural
development projects and schools (with INPRES) is similar to that with irrigation schemes. These
experiences were good examples for the proposed project. The kampung improvement program is similar
to the proposed project in providing small scale infrastructures and including poverty reduction objectives,
but it benefits urban neighborhoods rather than rural villages; the program was already successful prior
to Bank involvement and the Bank's various KIP projects are considered to provide an example of best
practice.
1.16       The experience under poverty focused projects in other countries was also reviewed: such
as that for Sri Lanka and the Social Fund for Guatemala, and the successful Agetip program in Africa--
under this program a non-profit organization employs small contractors to carry out publicly financed
works.
1.17       A general lesson is that for poverty reduction programs, involvement of the intended
beneficiaries in program design and implementation, and contributions in kind or cash, are essential for
more relevant subproject choices and sustainability.  Also, multilayered top-down processes and
centralized approval requirements considerably slow processes down and add to overhead costs; however,
central criteria and guidelines are useful, as is the availability of technical expertise and advise at the local
level to improve understanding of choices and quality of implementation. The period of starting up
activities tends to be longer than planned, and programs need some flexibility in implementation time--
unless the opportunity cost of their time is nil, people generally need time to choose and commit to a new
activity, and need some certainty about the sustainability of the initiative. Starting small and expanding
programs as demand for them increases at each location seems a safe way to proceed.



6
E. BANK STRATEGY FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
1.18       The Bank endorses the Government's strategy for poverty reduction in Indonesia (para. 1.6).
The proposed project is consistent with the 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was discussed
by the Board March 21, 1995. Poverty reduction forms the central basis of almost two-thirds of the
Bank's lending program through efforts to improve the quality of basic social services, infrastructure
projects for roads, power transmission and distribution, water supply, agricultural support services and
research. In order to target the projects better towards the poor, and to increase participation of the poor
in the design and implementation of these projects, the Bank is increasingly moving away from large,
national (in coverage), and centrally-managed projects to a multiplicity of smaller, regional and more
locally-managed projects, such as this proposed one.
1.19       In line with the 1994 CAS and a Government request, mid-1994 the World Bank made
financing available under an existing Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3385-IND) to quickly help
BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Bureau of Statistics improve methodologies and
procedures to better select villages for the 1995 and 1996 IDT programs, and to develop systems to
monitor/supervise/evaluate the pilot towards improving future programs. Terms of reference for the
technical assistance were also agreed. However, recruitment of experts was delayed and the Govermment
did itself further work to improve village selection (para. 1.8). Furthermore, following a Bank request,
Japan's Policy and Human Resources Development Fund approved in January 1995 a $2 million
equivalent grant for BAPPENAS to monitor/supervise/evaluate the IDT pilot during 1995-1997, using
the systems to be developed under the Bank financed study. Experts to help design the monitoring system
started their assignment early April 1995.
2. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND FORMULATION
2.1        The 1993 PODES survey helped identify poor villages for the 1994 IDT program; poor
infrastructure weighed heavily in the selection (para. 1.8). Early 1994 BAPPENAS/OECF engaged
consultants (Japan Development Institute and PT Intersys Kelola Maju) to survey IDT villages and
estimate needs for access roads, piers, and drinking water and sanitation, both in physical terms and cost.
On the basis of the consultant report (para. 1.12), OECF agreed to support an infrastructure project for
selected poor villages off Java and Bali--implementation of the project started February 1995.
2.2        The Bank agreed mid-1994 to assist with a pilot village infrastructure project for Java,
addressed to villages relatively underendowed with small infrastructures such as water supply, access
roads, drainage, bridges and jetties, markets, etc. Experience under Bank financed projects in Indonesia
and other countries, information gathered in visits to poor villages, the Javanese traditional ways and
strong grassroot institutions, were taken into account in the design of the proposed project; the experience
under the Government's self-financed poverty and infrastructure programs was essential for the adoption
of the project features that are innovative for the Bank (para.2.6). The project was developed jointly by
the Bank and the Government. BAPPENAS, in particular its Bureau of Regional District and Rural.
Development and the IDT Secretariat, suggested the basic approach and coordinated interaction with other
relevant Ministries, in particular the Directorate General of Regional Development (Bangda) and the
Directorate General of Village Community Development (PMD) in the Ministry of Home Affairs; the
Directorate General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) and of Roads (Bina Marga) in the Ministry of
Public Works; and the Ministry of Finance.



7
2.3         The Government gives high priority to the project as a complement to the IDT program--
indeed sees it as part of the IDT program. The project is expected to enhance the value of the IDT seed
capital villagers receive for productive purposes, and implementation will follow the decentralized IDT
approach--villagers are to select and implement the works that they consider to be of highest priority.
In December 1994 the Government requested the Bank appraisal to take place as early as possible.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.4         The proposed project aims at reducing poverty, providing village infrastructure and
employment paid in cash, and increasing decentralization, in line with the Government objectives. More
specifically, the project is a pilot to test in 6% of the Javanese villages--the bottom 20% of the poorest
villages on Java--the following main objectives, with a view of applying lessons learned to future
programs:
a) empowering villagers to decide priority uses of the grant funds available under the project for
their village, and to implement the works;
b) providing public infrastructure needed in poor villages;
c) creating jobs paid in cash for underemployed villagers to construct the public works, especially
in dry seasons--though fishing villages may differ from farming villages in terms of the best season
for works;
d) mobilizing village contributions towards the agreed public works; and
e) supporting the Government's decentralization policies, including its Action Plan to reduce non-
infrastructure constraints to trade and transport in the rural areas.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.5        In order to reach the above objectives, the proposed pilot project comprises a 2-3 year
program to assist some 1200 poor rural villages on Java improve their living standards while building
public works--such as access roads, bridges, water supply schemes, sanitation facilities, drainage,
markets, piers or other small infrastructures. The project would help finance (a) village works and
employment, up to an agreed allocation per village, and (b) technical assistance/engineering services, to
help with design and implementation of the schemes at the village level and, at the central level, for the
Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate activities, supervise project implementation and monitor
and evaluate its impact, and if necessary, to help implement its Action Plan (Annex 4).
2.6         The project is innovative for the Bank in the extent of its decentralization/grassroot
approach: the villages selected are to decide the works they want and that comply with a simple economic
criteria; technical assistance is to be provided directly to village groups; financing will be provided
directly through subdistrict bank units and be delinked from late budget releases. The focus is also on
employment: villagers doing the work are to be paid cash in proportion to work progress and works are
to be organized seasonally or as convenient for labor availability. (As mentioned earlier, normally Bank
infrastructure projects in Indonesia are implemented via government agencies because the works are of
a large scale and complex; and while so far the Government has had some village programs implemented
at the subdistrict and even village level, generally district or higher level agencies are fully in charge and
village laborers are often not paid in cash but expected to contribute "free" labor.) The project modalities
are described below.



8
2.7         Selection of poor villages. Among the 18,194 villages on Java, in 1993 the Government
identified 6039 villages "left behind", or poor, largely based on infrastructure deficiencies (having at least
2 of 3 indicators below the PODES poverty threshold, para. 1.8). Helping so many villages at once
would be too daunting a task. The project is to assist some 1200 rural villages, the bottom fifth of the
identified poor villages including the 765 villages categorized as "extremely poor". The first year
program includes 415 villages, 120 in West Java, 145 in Central Java, 30 in Yogyakarta and 120 in East
Java. The IDT Secretariat first identified the kabupatens (districts) in each province with the highest
concentration of poorest villages: 23 of the 82 kabupaten on Java include about half of the "extremely
poor" villages. Because of the need to limit the time field engineers spend travelling between villages,
villages were then selected in clusters of 5, each cluster including at least 3 extremely poor villages. All
selected villages have populations of at least 700 persons, to justify the infrastructure and the grant level.
Thereafter, the bupatis (District Heads) of the 23 selected kabupatens (districts), in consultation with
camats (Subdistrict Heads) confirmed the IDT Secretariat selection, except for some 15 villages for which
substitutes were proposed and retained in the final village list (Annex 1 and Map).
2.8         Some 800 other rural villages shall be in the second batch, 200 in West Java, 290 in Central
Java, 10 in Yogyakarta and 290 in East Java, bringing the total assisted in each province to the proportion
of poor in each province. More kabupatens will be covered than in the first project year; nevertheless,
some isolated extremely poor villages may not be included in the project if overhead costs of doing so
were too high; conversely, some poor villages but not in the lowest quintile, while not getting direct
assistance would however benefit from access roads and other schemes provided to the poorest adjacent
villages. The additional 800 villages shall have been identified from the established government list of
poor villages and ratified by the respective Bupatis by September 1995.  By December 1995 the
Government and the Bank shall agree on the list of villages for the second year; if following review of
the first year experience it is decided to proceed slower to ease implementation, then a shorter list will
be selected for assistance in 1996, leaving the remainder for assistance in 1997. An additional village
list would also be agreed if the allocation (para. 2.10) turns out to exceed implementable needs of some
of the 1200 selected poor villages.
2.9         Early April 1995 and February 1996 (and if the program is extended, February 1997), the
camats/bupatis have informed/will inform the kepala desas (elected Village Heads) of villages selected
and provide public information--a circular, radio announcements, etc.--with the rules to be followed under
the program, so that discussions in the villages selected gets underway.
2.10        Village grants. Each village allocation under the project should ideally reflect infrastructure
needs and labor availability. However, for simplicity and transparency, a standard Rp. 120 million (about
$55,000 equivalent) grant per village is foreseen. This allocation is smaller than the needs of the
"extremely poor" villages but larger than the average need because some of the project villages are not
"extremely poor" (para. 1.13); because it is expected that most of the works, especially road works, will
be implemented with village labor and in surveys villagers have indicated willingness to work for some
Rp. 2,000/3,000 per day, a lower wage than that included in MPW cost estimates; and also because the
absorptive capacity to implement labor intensive works would be limited due to logistics involved. If
some village programs cost less than the allocation, then the balance would be available for more villages
that would also be selected from the bottom of the government's list of poor villages (para. 2.8). The
allocations will be recorded in the kabupaten budgets but the funds will be channelled directly to villages
through the subdistrict units of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), outside the standard budget channel. A
flow chart is included in Annex 3.
2.11        Selection of public infrastructure subprojects. Kabupaten level staff of PMD (MoHA)
routinely survey villages about their infrastructure needs and make the results available as a starting point
for proposals by camats and in turn by bupatis (Bappeda II level) and by provincial governors (Bappeda



9
I level), in the yearly bottom-up planning process for the budget. This planning consultation process will
be used by the project, but ending essentially at the camat level, in line with current decentralization
policies and to leave decision-making close to the village level for village works. The kepala desa heads
the LKMD (village community resilience institution) and leads discussion of village group representatives
to agree on priorities; IDT program facilitators and other PMD local staff are available to help the
process. Village proposals are submitted to the camat, for harmonization if necessary at the subdistrict
level, and agreed programs are further checked to ensure that the proposals are not already covered in
another, funded program. Subprojects that would normally be included in standard budgets (INPRES)
and normally larger than those envisaged here, should in principle not be financed under the project.
Camats endorse the program, subject to a satisfactory technical review by the field engineers (see below);
the approval should come no later than May 30, 1995 and March 30, 1996 (and 1997 if applicable).
2.12        Field engineers will assist the LKMDs. Field engineers (consultants) are to review the
subproject proposals approved by camats, starting as early as possible. They would discuss and make
modifications as may be needed for technical reasons, and either give their technical (final) approval, or
if an alternative subproject were selected of a different type and cost estimate, then consult the camat
again about the alternative. The requirements for approval of a subproject by a field engineer are
elaborated in the Project Manual; they are listed below and the specifics shall be recorded in each case,
as follows:
a) the subproject must be a public infrastructure justified by the number of users and the cost per
user;
b) the funding available--the village grant and any village contributions--must be estimated
sufficient to complete the subproject;
c) land requirements will be minimized; for any required land or assets that would affect negatively
a villager's income and require compensation, the village and the affected family would agree on
a compensation that improved or restored their living standard, income earning or production
capacity to pre-subproject levels; the field engineer will verify that all persons affected are satisfied
with the compensation provided and if no agreement is reached, an alternative location or
subproject will be selected (the field engineer is also to verify that prior to the start of works, all
persons affected are satisfied with the compensation provided);
d) implementation/contractual arrangements and number of village laborers must be clear;
e) approaches to provide subsequent maintenance of the subproject must be agreed, including
assignment of responsibilities for maintenance works, training for maintenance designees, and
financing, as necessary.
2.13       In line with decentralization policies neither the PMU nor the Bank require to approve
individual subprojects.
2.14        Engineering assistance. The LKMDs will be the implementing agencies of the project.
The capacity of district agencies (Dinas PU TklI, DPUK) is rather limited and consultants are already
needed for some ongoing programs. Therefore the DPUKs have designated "administrative" Pimpros
for the first project year, and shall designate Pimpros by March 31 every project year, while the project
provides engineering services to assist directly LKMDs with subproject cost estimation, design,
procurement, organization and supervision of work, reporting, administration and some training to
villagers (and perhaps local contractors) for the implementation of the subproject and subsequent
maintenance, in addition to the initial approval (para. 2.12). It is estimated that I field engineer



10
consultant can assist 5 villages (1 cluster), assuming that each village would implement 1-3 subprojects--a
total of some 80 engineers for the first year villages and 120 or such number for the second year as may
be found necessary when the program is agreed. Field engineers would live close to their village cluster
to reduce travel and would have at least a motorcycle for field visits.
2.15       In order to provide homogeneity across clusters, an engineering/management team of 4
senior consultants has initially developed a simple Project Manual including guidelines with engineering
and environmentally sound standards for small public works, adopted from existing manuals (mainly from
MPW), simple compensation guidelines, procurement forms, procedures and reporting to be used by
LKMDs, etc. The senior consultants have also assisted the IDT Secretariat in the selection of field
engineers, in organizing a workshop for them (that took place in Bandung, April 24-28, 1995) to launch
the project, and will assist afterwards, in their supervision. The team leader and a counterpart with clear
responsibilities are based in Jakarta, to assist the PMU in overall management, but are expected to be in
the field most of their time. The other 3 senior engineers are based one in each province, to be closer
to the project villages, and are also assigned a counterpart each, from Bappedas I, from the time they
mobilized. A draft Project Manual and workshop program were reviewed by the Bank in early April
1995, to enable the workshop to take place by late April 1995. The final draft Project Manual was
agreed during negotiations, April 18 to 21, 1995; copies of the Manual shall be made widely available.
2.16       Monitoring assistance  The project also provides for the services of a team of experts to
assist the PMU monitor project implementation and impacts.  Monitoring will use participatory
approaches to the extent feasible and will be coordinated with the IDT monitoring efforts. Some non-
project villages will also be monitored to compare the results of various types of interventions. The terms
of reference were discussed at negotiations.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FiNANCING
2.17.      The total cost of the project, summarized in Table 2.1, is estimated at Rp.184.2 billion
($83.8 million equivalent). Technical assistance for implementation support is estimated to cost $11
million equivalent or about 13% of the project cost. The direct or indirect foreign cost component is
small, estimated at some 20-30% and accounting for the foreign cost component of technical assistance
services, including vehicles; equipment depreciation included in contractors' bills; and fuel and asphalt
costs. Direct labor costs would range from some 50% to 20%, depending on the works, though the share
of total labor costs (including labor in materials delivered) would be higher. The standard 10% value
added tax will apply to works by contractors and supplier bills; the total tax amount under the project will
depend on the proportion of works done by the villages themselves. Increased administration costs are
included at standard percentages (1% for central Government, 1% for provincial agencies and 3% for
local level agencies, of the grant amounts). Contingencies have been included for technical assistance
costs to cover the event of implementation over 3 years rather than 2. Because of the programmatic
nature, village allocations do not carry contingencies.
2.18       The Bank loan of $72.5 million equivalent would finance 86.5 % of project costs. The high
financing percentage is on account of the poverty reduction objectives of the project and the fact that the
Government is financing other poverty reduction programs on its own. The Government would cover
10% of the village grants and the increased administration costs. The 10% value added tax on technical
assistance contracts has been waived in accordance with Kepres 13/95.



I 
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
. ........... Rp billion .............. ............ $ million.
Local      Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total    % of
total
Goods, Works, Services    129.6    14.4   144.0   59.0    6.5    65.5
TA Implementation Support 22.0      2.2    24.2    10.0     1.0    11.0
Increased Administration  7.2       -       7.2    3.3       -      3.3
Subtotal          158.8      16.6   175.4   72.3    7.5    79.8        100
Contingencies            8.4       0.4      8.8     3.8    0.2      4.0
Total             167.2      17.0   184.2   76.1      7.7    83.8
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING
............ Rp billion ................. $ million .
Local     Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   % of
Total
GOI                    24.9         -      24.9      11.3     -       11.3    13.5
IBRD                  142.5        17.0   159.5      64.8    7.7     72.5    86.5
TOTAL            167.4       17.0   184.2      76.1    7.7      83.8   100.0
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT COORDINATION AND MONITORING
3.1         BAPPENAS, in particular its Bureau of Regional District and Rural Development, will be
the overall coordinating agency of the project. A Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established
to oversee implementation and includes representatives of BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance, DGs
Cipta Karya and Bina Marga (MPW) and DGs Bangda and PMD (MoHA). The PMU has a Secretariat
(IDT Secretariat) established to deal with the Government's IDT poverty program as well as related
foreign-assisted village infrastructure programs. The IDT Secretariat will be strengthened under the
project with experts for socio-economic monitoring and the leader of the engineer/management team;
also, a Japanese Grant will finance a team to monitor the IDT program itself.
3.2        The IDT Secretariat, with the assistance of experts, would monitor the impact of the
program in selected villages during implementation and prepare an ex-post evaluation. Monitorers are
expected to be Indonesian entities such as Universities, NGOs or consultants. Furthermore, the
monitoring to be done of the IDT program with the grant from the Government of Japan, possibly
including GIS, will be coordinated with the monitoring of this pilot project, and some villages included
in other programs or with no program will be monitored as well in order to ascertain differences. Terms
of reference for the experts were discussed at negotiations and the project monitoring team should be
selected by about July 1995.



12
3.3         Bappedas level I (provincial) have provided counterparts to the senior engineers and will
monitor information about the project. Bappedas level II will ensure project coordination with other
government programs.
B. IMPLEN1ENTATION SCHEDULE
3.4         To achieve the objectives of the project, to maximize employment for cash of local villagers
and provision of local public infrastructure, the works should be executed mainly during the dry season,
from beginning of May to end September, which is when farmers are not fully employed in agricultural
activities, when conditions are best for construction of public works, and when standard public work
budgets are not yet released. Therefore, yearly project activities are scheduled around the desired
implementation season. An optimal yearly schedule is in Annex 5.
3.5        It is desirable that the subprojects in any village be completed in one year. to curtail the tine
engineering assistance is needed. However, after the first project year, experience may indicate that a
village program should be allowed 2 years/seasons for completion--the proposed allocation is substantial
for many poor villages. A year extension could increase the share of engineering and monitoring costs
in the project cost, up to some 18%, still considered an acceptable share given that a needed extension
could allow a larger share of the village grant becoming villagers' incomes and reducing contractors
shares. However, a longer implementation period may reduce the intensity needed of engineering
services, thus not increasing their cost. This flexibility is justified given that the project is a pilot and
lessons should be useful for other programs. Thus, the objective is to complete the project in 2.5 years
(allowing for ex post evaluation), but it may take 3.5 years.
C. IMPLEMENTATION OF WORKS
3.6         LKMDs will be the "implementation agencies" of village subprojects, following agreements
signed by the camat and field engineer. LKMDs will serve as contractors; they would either employ
villagers directly and buy materials, rent equipment. etc. or if need be, contract work or expertise with
local contractors. This procedure has already been used successfully in some cases. Normally the local
implementing agency is the DPUK but DPUKs generally have limited capabilities and would be unable
to implement the proposed project with their current staff. Thus, the bupatis will authorize the DPUK
Pimpros to delegate to the consultant field engineer, and Pimpros assigned to the project will retain an
administrative role only; where DPUK engineers are able to help they would of course be welcome to
do so.
3.7         The field engineers will assist the LKMDs design, cost, plan, implement and supervise
works and prepare reports. They are to certify payment documentation in accordance with progress of
work. Field engineers will be trained in project specifics by the central team assisted by staff from
BAPPENAS, MoHA, MPW and MoF, at a workshop in Bandung prior to deployment. They have the
Project Manual with guidelines for choice of unit price or lump sum contracts, preparation of bill of
quantities or set of unit prices (depending on direct labor or subcontract), technical specifications
including environmental guidelines to be enforced, quality standards, control activities and other aspects.
Special care is needed in the costing of subprojects given that there are no funds to cover any cost
overrun beyond the village grant. The project design foresees, perhaps conservatively, that each engineer
will be able to assist 5 villages; after experience is gained, it may be possible to assign more villages per
field engineer. A senior engineer from the core team is available to advise and to supervise progress in
the field.
3.8         Some 300 villagers or more may want to work on a subproject; in surveys villagers indicated
a willingness to work for low "incentive payments" provided the works benefit their village and are seen



13
as a public project; furthermore, they would incur no transportation cost nor costs for food away from
home. Unskilled village labor would get a lump sum for the task, paid periodically by output; this should
result in some Rp.2,000/3,000 equivalent for a full day of work. The pay should not be so high as to
attract laborers away from similarly paying activities they would otherwise undertake, since that would
not create employment; the wage should be low enough for the poor to self-select for the project works.
If more villagers want to work than the works can absorb, an agreement has to be reached in the village
as to number of days each interested villager would work and when; the agreement would be reviewed
by the field engineer for approval of the subproject. A village foreman (mandor) would be designated
by the LKMD for each subproject and be assisted by the field engineer; skilled labor will also be hired
as needed, at locally competitive wages.  Organizing workers is an important part of project
implementation; if found convenient, a contractor can be hired to oversee/manage the works and lessen
the load of the field engineer (para. 2.12).
3.9        Java has a large number of NGOs and many are present at the subdistrict and even village
level. NGOs are welcome to contribute to implementation of the proposed project; in particular, they
could assist villages with community participation, subproject selection, employment plans and other
aspects such as monitoring and evaluation. LKMDs can pay for desired NGO services from the village
allocation.
D. PROCUREMENT
3.10        Procurement under the project is required for goods and works and for consultant services.
Procurement will be in line with Bank procurement guidelines and procedures ("Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 and "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981).
3.lI        The engineer/management team, field engineering services, and monitoring and evaluation
services are selected at the central government level. Consultant contracts with an estimated value of
$100,000 or more for the engagement of firms, and $50,000 or more for the engagement of individuals.
are subject to prior review by the Bank. Modalities and status are as follows:
(a) Engineer/management team. Terms of reference and a shortlist were agreed between the Bank
and IDT Secretariat during preappraisal in October 1994, and a firm was selected in January 1995.
The selection was based on submissions detailing the proposed management concept, information
system, qualification of experts, and costs/costs bases for the contract. The contract is financed
initially by the TA loan mentioned earlier, and later, under the project loan.
(b) Field engineer services. A different firm was hired for each province of West. East and
Central Java. the latter including Yogyakarta needs, to provide field engineers (field engineers
could be subcontracted from other firms). Terms of reference were agreed at appraisal, as well
as 3 shortlists each comprising 5 firms. Indonesian firms were shortlisted by Bappedas I and
foreign firms were also included in compliance with Bank guidelines. The IDT Secretariat invited
the shortlisted firms to submit proposals in early March, and the selection for the first project year
was completed in April 1995.
(c) Monitoring and evaluation services. Terms of reference for monitoring expertise were
discussed at negotiations. A final set of TORs and a shortlist would be agreed shortly thereafter.
3.12        Subprojects. It is expected that LKMDs will carry out most works by direct village labor
(community participation) under implementation agreements with the DPUKs. LKMDs may also contract
supplies of materials, rental of equipment, and small works by local contractors following national



14
shopping, procurement of small works or direct contracting procedures. No international competitive
bidding is envisaged. Simplified implementation agreements and documentation for national shopping
and direct procurement have been agreed and included in the Project Manual (Annex 6). National
shopping will require 3 quotations for each proposed contract. No contract or agreement would exceed
$55,000 equivalent (the village grant of Rp. 120 million) and most contracts are expected to be below half
that amount. All works may be done by community participation; nevertheless, procurement under
national shopping or small works procedures may total up to some $5 million each, and direct contracting
are also allowed for contracts up to $10,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount of $10 million
(see Table 3.1 overleaf). These procedures are in line with the Indonesian government procurement
rules; under Kepres 16/94, Pimpros can approve, on their own, contracts up to $250,000 equivalent.
Field engineers will help the LKMDs, as may be needed (i) organize village labor including pay setting,
(ii) hiring equipment, (iii) purchasing materials and tools; or (iv) contracting out. Works would not start
until any required compensation for land or assets in the village has been made as mentioned in Annex
9 and the Project Manual. Contractors will be required to use village labor. The Bank does not require
prior review of proposed contracts, given their small amounts and their large number, the need for quick
approval, and the safeguards built-in in the project design (consultants will be in place to assist (field
engineers) and to supervise (engineer/management team) the process, and further, audits and Bank
supervision will be conducted, as well as random ex-post review of SOE documentation).
E. DISBURSEMENTS
3.13        Retroactive financing. As the Bank loan may become effective at the earliest in July 1995,
in order to start field engineering services in April and village subprojects in May 1995, to take advantage
of the dry season that is best suited for works, through a letter of the MoF dated April 17, 1995, the
Government made Rp.20 billion prefinancing available in April 1995 and until proceeds of the proposed
loan become available.  The Bank proposes to provide retroactive financing for project related
expenditures incurred after January 31, 1995 and before loan signing, up to a maximum $7.2 million
equivalent.
3.14       Disbursements at local level. For reasons of cost efficiency, the project will pay for output
(itemized works) against measured progress and prorated lump-sum contracts. Following the procedure
adopted under the Government's IDT poverty program, by instructions of the Ministry of Finance the
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) unit closest to the village will be allowed to disburse the village allocation,
against bills certified by the field engineer.  The field engineer will forward the implementation
agreements, certified by the camat, contracts and certified bills to the administrative Pimpro in DPUK,
who in turn will forward a copy to the respective KPKN. LKMDs will be paid at the BRI units when
presenting their bills certified by the field engineer, according to progress of works. Village laborers thus
would be paid in cash every 2 weeks or weekly. BRI has agreed to provide simple monthly statements
for the LKMD accounts, inter alia to the field engineers. The fund flow is shown in Annex 3.
3.15       The Bank will not be involved in the approval process of every contract and disbursement
at the village level, but will inspect contracts at random during supervision of the project.  The
engineer/management team will supervise the subprojects while visiting every project village at least once,
on behalf of the PMU.



15
Table 3.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million) a/
Expehditure Category                            Other b/       NBF c/      Total Cost
Goods, Works and Services under Grants          65.5                       65.5
(59.0)                     (59.0)
Consultant Services                             15.0                        15.0
(13.5)                     (13.5)
Increased Administration                                       3.3           3.3
Total                                           80.5           3.3         83.8
(72.5)                    (72.5)
a/   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
b/   Includes work by community participation (up to $65.5 million), national shopping and procurement of small
works (up to $5 million each), and direct contracting (up to $10 million), and selection of consultants
following Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
c/   Not Bank financed.
Table 3.2: DISBURSEMENTS
Category                           Amount                 Disbursement Rate
(US$ equivalent)
(1) Goods, Works and Services       59,000,000                 90%
(2) Consultant Services             10,000,000                 100%
(3) Unallocated                     3,500,000
72,500,000
IBRD Fiscal Year                    1996        1997           1998         1999
Annual                             30           35             5            2.5
Cumulative                          30          65             70           72.5
3.16       Bank disbursements. The loan agreement includes 2 allocated disbursement categories, (i)
for expenditures incurred by project villages for goods, works and services under grants, at 90%, and
(ii) consultant services, at 100%. In order to facilitate Bank disbursements, the Government would
establish a Special Account up to an amount of $10 million in Bank Indonesia. This account should be
maintained by the Directorate General of Budget, MoF. All disbursements from the Bank loan would
be made through the Special Account. Since the majority of expenditures under the loan are small local
currency payments, the 30 days advance from the SA facility will be used for this project. That is, the
borrower can draw an amount from the SA sufficient to meet eligible expenditures for a period of less



16
than 30 days. After expenditures are incurred using the advance under the 30 days facility, the borrower
should submit a request for the replenishment using SOE procedures. A bank reconciliation statement
should also be attached showing inter alia, the deposit received from the Bank, the date on which each
advance was made and the amount awaiting documentation from BRI. Replenishment applications to the
Special Account will be made every two weeks or when 20% of the initial deposit has been used,
whichever is first. The GOI has agreed to make available its Transition Account in support of foreign
financed projects, to support also the proposed project in case the SA is temporarily short of funds.
Statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be used for the technical assistance category, for all contracts
for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 and individual consultants costing less than $50,000.
Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by respective project implementation units and made
available for review as may be requested by visiting Bank missions. The loan will not fund any land
acquisition. The disbursement schedule is shown above.
F. PROJECT ACCOUNTS, REPORTS AND AUDITS
3.17       The project allocation per kabupaten would be inscribed in the yearly local budgets,
SPABP/APBDII, for recording purposes.
3.18       As described in the Project Manual, monthly project accounts will be provided through
various sources:
a) BRI units involved would prepare monthly statements covering monthly disbursements and
cumulative totals for each project village, and give a copy to the village/camat and to the field
engineer/Pimpro;
b) field engineers would prepare monthly statements on physical progress and value of works in
their village cluster, and disbursements based on the BRI units' statements, and submit them to the
senior engineer;
c) the IDT Secretariat/TA team would consolidate the monthly work-related statements by
kabupatens every month and check with BRI statements for consistency;
d) DGB would provide periodically consolidated statements per kabupaten, province and total, for
reimbursement by the Bank, copied to the IDT Secretariat for information; and
e) villages would keep track of their funds via the BRI statements posted at the offices of the
kepala desas, camats, and BRI unit, and data also posted on employment, outputs and remuneration
compiled by the kepala desa/field engineer.
3.19       Periodic reports will be provided as follows:
a) the IDT Secretariat will prepare short quarterly reports and an annual report by end March,
including progress per category (roads, water supply, piers, bridges, others; and labor, materials,
contracts);
b) the DPUK Pimpros will keep copy of certified statements to account for expenditures related
to the APBDK allocations and will compile an annual report for Bappedas 11; and
c) the IDT Secretariat would report annually on project progress and on implementation of the
Government's Action Plan.



17
3.20       Confirmation was obtained during negotiations that the above reporting system. as included
in the Project Manual, will be complied with. It was also agreed that the consolidated project accounts,
including the Special Account and the SOEs, would be audited annually by independent auditors in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and that the audit report would be submitted to the Bank no later than
October 30, commencing in 1996. The audits will be joint responsibility of DG Budget (MoF) and IDT
Secretariat. The Bank would have no objection to BPKP conducting the audits. Financial audits would
be conducted randomly, but should cover at least 2 subprojects in every kabupaten (10% coverage). In
addition, assurances were obtained that independent auditors will be appointed for technical audits of
project implementation aspects in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The financial and technical audits
would be made simultaneously for the same subprojects, and start early to avoid bunching. Terms of
reference for the audits will be agreed with the Bank.
G. PROJECT MONITORING AND BANK SUPERVISION
3.21        Physical progress as well as other aspects of the project will be monitored following forms
and indicators included in the Project Manual. The indicators to be used were agreed at negotiations,
as part of the reporting/monitoring system. Participation of the poor--man-days of employment, average
and total pay to labor; physical works--such as kilometers of access roads built, effect on farmgate price
levels -- public transportation costs. Any land and compensation matters, environmental effects, quality
of selection and implementation of works, are to be reviewed and reported on a sampling basis.
Comparisons will eventually be made with costs/results of other types of interventions. The indicators
for monitoring the project were agreed at negotiations, and a sample is in Annex 7.
3.22       The IDT Secretariat would make available to the Bank the progress reports mentioned in
the preceding section. The Bank would supervise the project via 3 visits per year to selected villages,
BRI units and other relevant agencies to review all aspects of progress, such as local employment, costs
and progress of work and impact on beneficiaries/the village. The Bank and GOI would undertake an
in-depth review after the first year implementation around February 1996; any adjustment deemed
necessary will be made following the review. A Supervision Plan is included in Annex 8.
H. LAND ACQUISITION, RESETTLEMENT AND CONIPENSATION
3.23       No physical displacement is expected to take place under this project. Subprojects requiring
displacement will be redesigned to avoid resettlement or alternative subprojects must be proposed. The
infrastructure to be financed is generally of a small scale. Installations for a public source of drinking
water, a tap or a pump, do not need much space; small pipes--may be no more than a hose--if needed
to bring water from a natural source cause little disruption on land use. All weather access roads would
normally be built on existing access paths, and would be no more than 3 to 4 meters wide. This width
may exceed an existing access by no more than a meter. Since houses are normally set back from roads,
impacts would therefore be minimal. In those cases where houses are partially located within the
widening area, house owners normally agree to move them back because houses are normally temporary
(bamboo) structures that can be moved relatively easily, and property values increase significantly once
roads are built--owners could sell the property later at a profit, as there is an active land market on Java.
3.24       Economic impacts caused by land acquisition are also expected to be slight for the same
reasons. The Project Manual mentions the need to keep land acquisition to a minimum. Traditional
processes of voluntary contributions will be followed in villages where some land is unavoidably needed.
To minimize peer pressure risk, however, where land needed exceeds for example 20% of a villager's
plot, the affected villagers will be given replacement land, other equivalent productive assets or other in-
kind compensation as negotiated during the village consultation meetings (normally common-tenure land
is used for compensation). If a solid structure has to be demolished, the village would provide materials



18
and help build an equivalent structure. Subprojects that involve compensation of this nature for land or
other assets will not be approved by field engineers unless adequate compensation arrangements have been
agreed by the villager affected and the LKMD, and compensation should have been made prior to the
start of work (para. 3.12). In the unlikely event that a larger number of persons were negatively affected
due to a subproject (e.g. more than 200 each lost more than 20% of their land or assets) and the field
engineer found no alternative that would reduce the number of affected persons, then Bank approval of
a related compensation/resettlement plan would be sought prior to proceeding with the subproject. In
case of disagreement, affected villagers can complain to their field engineer and camat. They can also
complain in writing to the P.O. Complaints Box 5000 instituted successfully for the IDT program (para.
1.7). The criteria have been agreed with the Government as summarized in Annex 9; they are included
in the Project Manual. The above criteria are consistent with the Bank Guidelines for Involuntary
Resettlement (that include both physically relocated as well as only economically affected persons; the
proposed project foresees only the latter) that require that negatively affected families have their standard
of living improved or at least restored to pre-project levels.
1. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
3.25       The project has been classified in environmental category B.  The scope of village
subprojects will be relatively minor, as mentioned in para. 3.24. Access roads would be built with
appropriate alignments, cross and longitudinal drainage and gradients to lengthen the road life and
minimize erosion that higher standard roads may create. With an all weather access to each village, use
of some alternative earth tracks may be reduced thus lessening erosion along the tracks. Better provision
of water in the project areas which are normally short of water in dry seasons should have a beneficial
environmental impact and may even help grow vegetative contours. Overall the environmental impact
is expected to be small and mostly positive. Given the progranumatic nature of the project and the small
environmental impact expected, no environmental impact assessment will be prepared up front. Progress
reports would indicate any problems encountered and solutions adopted during implementation.
3.26         Standard designs and criteria have been prepared in the past by DG Bina Marga and DG
Cipta Karya for such small works; these designs incorporate environmental guidelines.  The
engineer/management team for the project have reviewed the standard designs and guidelines and
prepared a shorter Project Manual for easy reference in the field. The field engineers are to incorporate
sound environmental criteria in designs of subprojects and verify their compliance during construction
supervision. The draft final Project Manual was agreed by the Bank at negotiations.
3.27       Field engineers are also to explain to villagers the importance of maintenance and how to
maintain the infrastructures built under the project, for the works to last and environmental sustainability.
A maintenance plan would be prepared in each village.
4. PROJECT JUSTICATION AND RISKS
A. JUSTIFICATION
4.1        The Government wants to accelerate poverty reduction in Indonesia and has assigned a high
priority in the Bank's lending program to assisting its poverty program. The project provides a direct
means to reach poor villages, potentially faster and enabling a higher share of the funds to reach the poor,
as layers of agency involvement and supply delivery costs are reduced. By directing the funds to
community selected infrastructure projects likely to also be implemented with self-help, the community
sense and productivity of the poor is expected to increase and allow the poor to participate in economic
growth while contributing to it. Also, the project focuses on infrastructure where implementation
effectiveness is generally higher.



19
4.2        Many ongoing programs already focus on the outer islands. Assisting poor villages in Java
improve their infrastructure is justified; villages on Java have larger populations so that more people will
use and benefit from infrastructure there, and construction costs are generally lower on Java than
elsewhere--meaning that more can be achieved with a fiscal dollar targeted on Java. Furthermore, while
the overall poverty incidence may be lower on Java than elsewhere, on Java the poor are more numerous
and may be relatively concentrated in smaller areas that can be targeted and where the cash may be more
easily used in a productive way than in remote, outer island villages. According to the SUSENAS
expenditure surveys, some 9 million absolute poor live in rural areas in Java; and according to the
PODES surveys, one third or some 6000 of the villages on Java are poor and comprise some 18 million
people. According to various sources, Java has a higher than average infant mortality and high
malnutrition. While not all the absolute poor live in the poor villages, addressing the needs of the poor
villages facilitates targeting.
4.3        Project beneficiaries would exceed 3 million. The population of the 415 villages selected
for the first project year totals some 1.1 million--the villages average some 2600 residents, varying from
700 to 10,000 residents, and the average area is 500 hectares; even though they are "rural", population
densities are high in the villages: more than 4 persons per hectare in West Java, almost 7 in Central Java
and almost 6 in East Java--and not all the land can be farmed. The population of the 1200 poor villages
to be assisted under the project would total more than 3.3 million, living on some 650,000 ha (6500 kin2).
Furthermore, poor laborers from outside the project villages will also benefit: materials such as stone,
gravel and sand for road surfacing and works normally have to be procured from outside the villages,
and it is normally poor landless laborers who work in quarries. The project cost per beneficiary is about
$25 equivalent.
4.4        Employment and cash compensation to village laborers is an important feature of the project.
Many villagers in the selected poor villages have just subsistence livelihoods, with a minimum of cash
incomes that however are necessary to buy clothing, medicine, school materials, transport services and
other necessities. Many are living with no more than $100 equivalent per year. The cash to be earned
under the project should provide an important addition to the poorer household budgets; works can be
scheduled so as not to interfere with other income earning activities. With the cash earned, villagers
ought to be able to improve their assets and current consumption. More of the funds would actually
reach the poor villagers compared to funds under other targeted public programs with higher delivery
costs and less self-targeting.
4.5        Labor-intensive methods are also efficient for the public budget. Villagers are willing to
work for the equivalent of about $1 per day, and at that cost labor intensive methods are competitive with
capital intensive methods for the simple type of works envisaged. The villagers will have to undertake
to maintain the village facilities to be built under the project; but having participated in the building, and
because the infrastructure is for their own benefit, in surveys villagers have indicated that they would do
the maintenance, provided they are taught how to. If the project proves successful then some funding
under current top-down programs could be reassigned in the future to similar local decision-making and
labor-intensive implementation projects--neglected kabupaten road maintenance and even improvement
would be a prime candidate for the shift toward a lengthman system.
4.6        In addition to employment benefits and reduced unit costs of works, the assets to be built
under the project have high rates of return, exceeding 20%. A majority of the funds will likely be used
to build all weather access roads and bridges--many of the poor villages lack a good connection to their
kecamatan center; at some 2,500 persons per village paths have considerable traffic--several villages may
also use a common access--and their upgrading to all weather passibility has good economic returns. The
provision of drinking water, as demonstrated already in other projects, also has high returns. Examples
of the high returns to providing all weather access roads and bridges are illustrated in Annex 10. Field



20
engineers will verify that subprojects have a minimum number of beneficiaries and a maximum cost per
beneficiary.
4.7        It is hoped that villagers can gain some technical and administrative knowledge with the
program; furthermore, villagers would be trained to undertake maintenance works, that have high returns,
during the one year, perhaps two, that the experts will assist each village. As Java is densely populated,
all weather access would make possible/affordable commuting from the village to nearby jobs and slow
down outright emigration from rural areas.
B. RISKS
4.8         Being an innovative pilot for the Bank, the project could be assumed to entail considerable
risk. However, the risk of "wrong" projects being chosen in villages seems small given that consultations
processes are involved anid it is in the interest of the village to do the most with its allocation. The risk
of fund diversion seems to be small, given that funds will go directly to the beneficiary village, the
program is transparent and controls are in place for uses within the village. The risk of using labor-
intensive methods, generally more difficult than capital-intensive methods due to logistics involved, is
worthwhile confronting in order to promote paid employment in poor rural villages deficient in small
infrastructures.  Self-help projects and small local contractors already often employ labor-intensive
methods, and the engineering inputs foreseen under the project should help enhance productivity levels
and improve quality of designs and works. A focus on quality output should hopefully give an example
to follow subsequently in other works. Furthermore, cost savings would compensate risks of labor
intensive works. There is also a risk that the project cannot be implemented as fast as scheduled due to
absorptive capacity constraints, but the project would allow extending the program implementation and
the technical assistance; the project also allows flexibility in adding villages if found justified. There is
a risk of subsequent maintenance of the infrastructures being faulty; however, the villagers are the users
and the infrastructure sustainability will be of prime concern to them. The field engineers are further to
impress on villagers the low costs and high benefits of maintenance, maintenance practices, and as
necessary, identify sources for financing future maintenance. During project implementation, independent
monitoring, audits and supervision should all help identify problems and take early corrective action.
5. AGREENIENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         The following was agreed at negotiations:
a) Village coverage: villages for the second year program starting in 1996 shall be selected by
September 1995 and the village list (and an eventual third year list) will be reviewed with the Bank
in December 1995 (para. 2.8);
b) Project information dissemination: villages selected for the program will be informed no later
than April 1, 1996 and if applicable, 1997 and be provided with public information about the
program (para. 2.9);
c) Government staff: Bupatis would designate Pimpros TkII in the selected kabupatens by March
31 every project year (para. 2.14). Camats would endorse subprojects by May 30, 1995 and
March 31, 1996 (and 1997 if applicable) (para. 2.11);
d) Project Manual: a Manual comprising implementation arrangements and procurement formats
and procedures (para. 3.12), reporting formats (para. 3.20), project performance indicators to be
used for monitoring (para. 3.21), guidelines for compensating negatively affected persons (para.



221
3.24), environmental standards (para. 3.26), maintenance provisions (para. 3.27), and subproject
selection criteria (para. 4.6), was agreed; and
e) Audits and mid-term review: financial and technical audits would be conducted no later than
October 30, commencing in 1996 (para. 3.20), and a mid-tern review will be conducted about
February 1996 (para. 3.22).
5.2        With the actions already taken prior to negotiations and the above confirmations, the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of $72.5 million equivalent with a 20 year maturity including a 5 year
grace period at the standard Bank's variable interest rate. The Borrower would be the Republic of
Indonesia.






L  - <2
! ^ L ;j_
'.'
JO-'~~~ I '  Cst' Z
.'"' <  '   ''')~~~~~~~~~~~S



IE_AR         J



25
Annex 1
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
Characteristics of Java Provinces
Absolute
Total      Poor in          Rural Villages                         Average
Population   Rural Areas                       of which         No.  GDP/CAP.
199213        1990      Total     Poor   extremely   Kabupaten          1990
Province          million      million                            poor                  000
West Java                36.4          2.4     6,645     1,555         212          20          790
Central Java             29.0          3.3     4,180    2,427          282           29         685
East Java                33.1          2.9     6,976     1,946         239           29         897
Yogyakarta                2.9          0.2       393       111          32            4         653
Subtotal            101.4          8.8    18,194    6,039          765.         82         756
% of Indonesia           54.0         48.9      27.8      29.2                     33.7         86.3
Indonesia               187.8         18.0    65,554   20,663                       243        876.0
Area       Cultivable area           Roads
km2                   1992
000           %   pop/lan2       km  kM/kAM2 CUlt.
West Java                46.3           76     1,029    15,180         0.43
Central Java             34.2           90       943    15,315         0.50
East Java                47.9           81       847    17,042         0.44
Yogyakarta                3.2           90      1,025    3,178         1.10
Subtotal            131.6          84       961   50,715          0.46
% of Indonesia            6.9           14     397.1      28.0
Indonesia               1,909           41       242   181,266
a/ Rp 5.5 million per desa. including Rp I million to the KKP (women's group)



26
Annex I
Table 2: Access Roads, Piers and lDrilking Water Needs in Poorest Villages on Java j1
Ro,ads and Water                              Piers                  Tota
* No.      in          Roads       Water b/    No.       In      No.
Villages Dlstricts   km    bo RP    bo Rp.   VlUuage  Districts  Piers  bo Rp.    bo Rp.
West Java        212       19    1,076     37.7      9.6        76       1 1    ISO     0.9        48.2
Cenlral Java     282       27    1,370     48.0     14.6        31       13      S5    OA            63
Yogyakma          32        3      143      5.0      1.8         2        1       2     0.0         6.8
East Java        239       27    1,233     43.2     11.8        69       9       92     0.7        55.7
Total        765       76    3,822    133.9    37.8        178       34     299       2        173.7
% of all poor    13%     79%      16%                                          100%e
villages
Source: OECF fimae study, 1994.
ui Exicemely and very poor.
b/ I scheme per villae - ram. surface or pound water.
Table 3.: Poor Villages on Java by Type of Access Road a/
NUMER OF POOR VILLAGES
Extremely      Very   Moderate    Potential  Productive        Total
Poor      Poor        Poor        With
........................... .t............ _ e9s  rd ac  s.
West Java                158       233          96           19           2         508
Central Java              80       134         114           47           4         379
Yogyakut                   0         0           0            0           0           0
East Java                127       246         177           44           7         601
Sub Total      365       613         387          110          13        148
_ .   _ .....wihi gravel roed access ..........
West Java                146       275         137           26           3         S87
Central Java             239       566         450          129           9        1393
YogyUuxta                  4        15          18           11           4          52
East Java                197       352         209           65           9         832
Sub Total      586      1208         814          231          2S        2864
Total.            951       1821       1201          341          38        4352
Soiuo OECF flaed study, 1994
aI Both ral md Uwbenvilag



27
Annex 2
INDONESIA
INFRASTRUCTlURE PROJECr ror POOR VILLAGES on JAVA
Proposed Kabupatens for First Year Program
Total          Selected in Clusters
Priority                   of which                of which
Province         Kabupaten            DTs       DTPs         DTS         DTPs
West Java                                 1,357        178           -
Pandeglang               167          33         30            23
Lebak                    177          49         45q           41
Sukabuni                  58          10          5             3
Cianjur                   96          15         10             7
Garut                     60           8         10             6
Indramayu                 90          12          5             3
Serang                   140          13         15             9
Subtotal      (7)   788         140        120            92
Cental Java                               2,241        271           -
Banjamegara              101          18         20            14
Kebumen                  178          38         30            21
Purworejo                150          25         20            14
Wonosobo                 108          12         10             7
Grobogan                  85          18         15             9
Rembang                  125          20          5             3
Pati                      84          22         10            10
Batang                   141          28         35            24
Subtotal      (8)   972 .       181        145           102
Yogyakart                                   92          25           -
Gunung Kidul              65          21         30            20
Subtotal      (1)    65          21         30            20
East Java                                 1,737        210           -            -
Probolinggo               87          11         10             6
Pasuman                  103          16         15            10
Nganjuk                   85           8         .10            7
Bojonegoro               147          25         20            14
Bangkalan  -             164          38         30            21
Sampang                  104          20         25            17
Sumenep                  118          25         10             8
Subtotal      (7)   808         143        120            83
Total for priority kabupaten (23) 2,633      485        415           297
Total for Java (82) 5,427       684
Soure; Bp ,m IIT Scctada
lyr: por villa
DTh. extmey poor vblae



28
WEST JAVA, VILLAGES IN FIRST YEAR PROGRAM
(showing kabupaten. village name, population and PODES score)
KABUDATEN:  PANDOGLANBS                       KAUPATEN:    L2AMK                         .      KIAIATEN:  cIA5MM >I
KeCAUATAN   OERA      PINDOUK    TOTAL        KECAUATAN      OwRA      PENOULDUK   TOTAL        KECAMATAN   DIsA           PrNOUI    TOTAL
PANISGO  KIeTARATMARJA        am       3      CPANAS         LEBAK GEDONG   nu1         4       KADLWANOAK  PASNOALES              31       S3
SUNJiL      CfNANIO           3421    38      CPAANAS        LISAKCrrU          2D4    41       KAOUPANDAK  NEOLARAI               4432    32
MLINJUL     SIMLA (AAN       23       41     CrANAS         LeBAK AmaKA       1e15    3Y       KAOUPANDAK  RIAJUK TA              7613    30
SuILJL      PAoAMClLVA         1m      as     CVANAR         PASR HMALR        30m      36      KAOLWANOAK  WARGA NMI             2n47      ST
SMiSu L     PADAISAIG         1473    32    CPANAS R         ONLAVA       JD1s          37      KADUPANDAK  SOJONOKA4              no       47
SIANJL      PASO LANCAR          S    32      SUNCANG        CELESANG          16D7     3       CISEBER      CeOKO?                am       35
SUWAS.      5INDANO REr       1W47    36    SUNCANG          COtOPANG          125      38      CmEER        SALAGROANG             OI    47
SWUIS       PASIN OURUNOG      tm     4a      MUNCANG        SUKAUAJU          2S76    34       CloeER hISIS.4YA                   1431    38
uwJu.L    YAMU MALAn          1717    3Y      MUNCANG        SAJ"APAI           740    37       coaSER       CISANGOU              4735    40
PAG.ARAN   TURUS              am       36  YUUNCANO   5 UKA4AYA                1873    37       CUEeRa    RUKARAIARJA              SW       41
PAGeLARAtN   IOAMAN           154      3      MUNCANO        ROSANG            3006    3y       KAULATEN:  GAauT
PAaARAN   CLAM                 tow     34     MUNCANG        HMARING           2672    36
PAGIARAN   SILAGOR            2005    3y      MUNCANO        KARANG COSSONG   2307      33      KECASATAN   OESA           PENONUK   TOTAL
PAGeLAAN   SUAARTA            166O     3      MUNCANG        PASEINANOKA       1870    34
PAoILARAN   HARAPAN KARYA      1310    36     YUNCANC        CW.ARANG          3511    33       PAKENJENG   NIGLAMI               3480    30
PAKINJENG   WANGOWJAYA             3777    41
PAOELAAAN   RANAYU             1800 3D        MUNCANG t       UKANAGAARA       167      38      PAMLLI4HAN    LINGGAAJA1An         3        34
PAGELARAN   CIKLUVA            2737    36     UUNCANG        SINOANOWANOI      4330    31       PAMULIMAN    OARUSUMLM             236      3
PAGeLASAN   TEOAL rPAPrAK      te O           CIMARSA        MAPR ALUrU        4U       37      PASLLIHAN    PANAWA                1104    4u
PAGLARAN   9INANGSRI           141    Ys    CIUARGA          SANGMG JAYA       22U      37
PASILARAN   SINDANG LAVA       1ns     40     SAJtA          CALUNGSUNGW       3738    3Y       SINGAJAVA    JaYAMtla              371      3
INGAJAYA    GNUUKn                 2te7    42
SAVn        CSIERANS AYA      la"      36    CUARGA          MAROATUTA         3474    42       RINOAJAYA    3UKAUILYA             5115    36
SAXLln      RAWM  NEQARA      17n1    3Y    CISARGA          GUNUNG A4TeN      SON      40      3ANJARWANGI TALAGARMI              5140    41
AKen        KAOU HEMM          to      41    CIS ARGA        GIRISUIT          3467    3Y       SANJARWANOI PACAIUMP               4844    36
IAK-n       SANONIANaO 01EK   lisi     34     C OIARGA         TeN AYA         n5161    3
SAiETn      CtLENTUNO          2g      42     CIMARGA        KARYA JAYA        3477    37       KAILUATEN   INOtAAAVU  Y,'
SANJAR      UKAS JAVA          18      *   RANCKAS SWTUNG CLNOKAP              3010    35       KECAMATAN   DORA           PIDUDCIK   TOTAL
NAN         KAOUAANOKUNG       140a    *      RANOKAS SWTUNG SAN0IANG TANJUNO  23       1
SANAR       MDONG             207      Al    RANo     rUNG PASRsE TANJUNG      RO       n       L04SINER     TAWANOSAR             141      34
BANJAR      RUKAULYVA          1242    S7    RANOKAS SWUNO SUKAUEKAItRRI    gm 63               LONSENER    CIDIMPET               151     48
BAN JAR     SANDUNG            IsO    Ys    CISADAK          TAUSAKSAYA        3364    33       SINOANO      CANCKRSe              2n7      a
mOANO        CANTIm KUON           gig      Y
RANGAIS 51TUNO  KOLELET wMLAN    1r       37     IRNDANG       CANTIU WETAN          Sa8 l
CUAGAK         SALASAR            474 
COADAK         *oJoNORe          nY6    3Y        KA IPATEN:   SERANU 4 t
COADAK         CSANCU            1437    as
CUACAK         ASKE              3837     3       KCCAYATAN   DeOA           PENDutOLK   TOTAL
AAA            SeKARWANR21      2a1       35      SAR3OS        UKAMINAK             and    a
YAJA           CLURU SWuNG       2430    Ss       BAROS        TAWaS 1m              1740     S
MAJA           C$IURUY           3182    41       BAtO         CIURU A&U4            16       48
MAJA           MAYAK             170      36      BASOS        SINDANG ANa            2 
SAJA           CLAYANG                   3Y       SAROS        CSALAM                 2 
AAJA           CLANOKAP          am       37      PANARAYAN   KEON CAU              238       S
SAJA           PA5IN KACAPI      5017    37       PAMARAVAN   PUOAR
_AJA     ClWnIN                  1737    3Y       PAMARAYAN    PA   I  LUS           4616      0
MAJA           CIDADAP           Cm       Y       PASARAYAN    SANDER                star    34
SAJA           TANJUNG SARI      2248      7      KOPO         PASPETNo 4                     4
KAauPATEN:     SUK4AUYI                           PASIARAVAN    PANANPSG             2JY4     3
PAYARAYAN    ANOUNG                4Y       42
KECASATAN      OCSA      PENOIOUK    TOTAL        PAMARAVAN    SLOKANG                 2      3
PA&IARAYAN   SASAKAN               1731     2
JAUPANGTENSA* CWTAJ4AJGO                          PAMARAYAN    PRINS WLLUMa          242      30
NYALINOUNG     MEKARSARI         3812    38                    k         IS-twAl 16
NYALINDUNO     CISITU            3774
NYALINOUNO     SUKAMAJU          404      38
NYALINOUNO     WANOUNREJA        son      48



29
CENTRAL JAVA, VIAGES IN FIRST YEAR PROGRAM
ZhUMPAMLwa;                                                               (showing kabuPaten  village   e, populaon and PODES score)
KASUPATEN: RANJARNUaArA .RA
KCCAMATAN     OUSA            PENDUOUK   TOTAL          KABlUPAT!N:   PUSWORSEJo                           KASuPATSeI    iiU*AII4Z
SAWANC        OLDEN                    2243    37       KECAMATAN    OCSA          PENDOUK    TOTAL        KECAUATAN      DMS         Pr6144      Tr
SAWANC        LUSAK WANGI              364    30
SANJARNEOARA  GUNUNG JATI              l1   44          CRABAG       UKit SR               12,11           SARANG                             IT"JO  1
SANJARNEIRA  KESUTWI DUWUR             43      41       ORABAG       KCRTO JAVAN            674    so         ANG         PLAN                I
SANJARNEGARA  PASANCKALAN              am      36       0RA5AG       DDUKULLON              7m  44         SARANG         GLIB16o
GRASAG       SAKU REJO             167t     4t   SRANG            SINWLS UD           16
*ANJARM4ANGU   PRENDENGAN              213J *           GRASA2 TR1ULYO *40                                 SPRANG          AA StLYO           16
CANJARMANGU   MAJATENGAN               7:2    23
KARANGKOSAR   GUMELAR                   m      42       GRASAG       SUUCCSR AGWOO        a3m       44     KASURATCN:    PATs
WANAVASA      SUWIOAK                  Is"     24       GRABAG       NAUSANGAN              66      0
WADAYASA      KARANG TENGAH            164     Sy       SRASAG       SENOUNGAN               5     4a      KECAMATAN      OUSA        P310434K    T
SUTUM        KEOUNG SIULYO         1U2     2
PUNOGELAN      TLAA                    416      3       SUTUN        LANGOA SEJO           1317    so      PUNCATKWANGI  WATU MA              1617
KALIENING      PANDAN AMUM             2136    41                                                          FUNCAKWANG   LLUSUBG MAS           31
KALSENING     A53NAN                   UsO     36      PRIUfHL       KALIJERING            1617    23       UNCAKWANSI  SMIALYO               am
KALEENING      PASEQSSAN               5475    *7      PRTIRUH       so0O GEDE             14"      3      PtUNCAKWANSI  Ktlt.                US
KALIDENING    PINGfrLOR                2034    32       PITAUI4      KALIGONOANG            664    u       PuNOCAKWANGI  TrS                  lo61l1
PITUIUH      KALI GINTUNIG         2116    2
PEJAWARAN      SITING                  1624    23       PrTUSUM      SAWANGAN              1367    ST      JAK3NAN        SSUWMLGO            1746
PEJAWARAN     TLAHAP                   16      43                                                          JANAN         SOIANSSGKS           1o"
PEJAWARAN      OARMAYASA               2l      4J       KE4IM         WONOSUKO              t              JAICNAN       TLOGOR                1
PEJAWARAN      SEUANOKUNG              1173    *3       KE4AI        OLES                  1       *       JAKICNAN      N     UAST D         104
PEJAWARAN      KARANOSARKI             am       3       KEMPRI o'ro                        IW      4       JAKUENAN       KARAN@OWD           766
BRUNO        PR13O                3141    as
KASUPATEN:    KEUMEN                                    GUANIG        KALICTENGKEK         11J7            KASUWATEN:    RATANG
KECAMATAN      DESA           PENOUDUK    TOTAL         KASUPATEN:   WOlOSORO                              KECAMATAN     DMA         PINUUUK   T0
SUAYAN         SIKAYU  4R              J           1    KECAMATAN    OESA        PRNWOUK    TOTAL          WCNO TUNGOPO  PUNANEAN             S
UAYAN     KARANOS3AI              1366    36k  UG" M    AA
SUAYAN         ROGOWONO                274     J        LENSOMO       PLODONGa             1674     s      TIL           LAsS AM              61
SUIAVAN        SEMAMPER                3142    41       LSICONC       aUWI%WANGU            66?    23      TILES        TIAINI                13n7
SUAYAN         JOGOUULYO              am       31       LEKIONO       GARUNG LOR           1716    2       TI            common              127
AumAL          PLEMPUKAN KEMBARAN     104      4        LEKSONO       SURA   UDANA          3s     *       SANOM         P5313K              4775
AuMAL         KAISON PETAD4GKLtAN     1W  n                                                                UANOAN        slaw                IS
AMBAL          SLENGER WETAN           1W     32       LEKSONO       KALSENING             146    2c      SUAN          PncALA              IS
A .            SLUENBER KMLON         23       41       WATUMALANQ   WONOSAOYO             3617   S4 USAN                 AH1                3t46
AumAL          SIESE WETAN            1814    so        WATUMALANG   SuSAAWANG MAIL        #177    a       SUSAN         MUJNSON            1low
WATuMALANG  BANYU KEMAR           8312    44
PSESUN         SAMAYU                  1347    n        WATUMALANG   WATUSALANG                     s 2    LAOO                               757
PRESUN         SINOANGDALEM           2301                                                                 SLADO          A I                  _
ALIAN          SOKA                    24      3        KAiUwAeN:   ROmsosAN                               *LADO         cowo                1s61
ALlAN          ILOGOONLUMO            1413    37                                                           BLABO         SISAM               1666
ALLAN          KALiPUN                307      2J       KDCAMATAN    DESA         PENBUOUIK   TOrAL       BLAOO          53A4N1      -ns
ALLAN          FESALAKAN               Sol     2           UN04An                                  so    1112 K1OUMOJAT    pj  3141  23  SUAN  MOMT6  I70
ALLAN          JATruRus                       32        KEOUN TJAT    NOOMAK              247S    42       ROSAN         O5t3WAN              gm
ALIAM          LEREPKESUMEN           Is"      27       KEWUNGJATI   KENTEN3ASI           236      4a     as"AN             n065o             1
ALLAN          SLATER                 14739    4        KEOUMNJATI   PANamO               ai16    66       SAWANG        PUANTU              uP.4
KEsUMEN        ROWOREJO               316      23       KEDUNM        PAOAS                 n   .2 *        AWAN          WKIUDSJO            t
PEJAGOAN       WATILAWANG             1l       27       KEUNaGJATn   OUSAS                  m      n       SAWANG        CANDI aGuR 
KARANG GAYAM  LOOANDU U                        4J       KEDUNGJATI  KtITAN 4"                      44      EAWANG        PANSON               66
KARANa GAYAN   KEsAKALAN              245      ST       KEOUNGJATI   KAULMAS              4m       34     QAWANG         gm                  lm
KARANG GAYAM   WONOThTO               25       42       KEDUNQJATl   JUNO                 2431     44      SAWANi        GM 
KARANG GAYAM   KALEENING              a 2 4             KCOUNGJATI   WATES                 -m      *       AWANG          AU       
SRUWENG        SIOOAGUNG              "it    42         PENAWANGAN   KARANQAWAOE          3113    2J      LOPUNG         KflA                134
SRUWENG        DONOSARI               2ns      2        PENAWANGAN   LEYANGAN             3440    36    LUSUN5           DUAS                Is"
SRUWENG        CONOG CAMPUR           124      2         NAWANGAN   WAT PAWON             16        3      SUSAN         KARANCGTOMSA        a"
SRUWWNG        PENUSUPAN              1306    42        PENAWANGAN   TUNWGU               1SS6    41       SUSAN         1ama HASIJO         am
KARANG ANYAR   IRMUNNO                264    23        PFENAWANSA    JANG                    g     an       JUAN a    TIUIOLANA  MARJUO   1SO
SUSAN         KAN                  "a m2
SUSAH         SAMPl PAVUNS        amS
SUSAN         ASSEUSO            2334
TWL1.         KaUSS S#W0N         S742
'a-lt-Lwkt     I



30
EAST JAVA, VILLAGES IN FIRST YEAR PROGRAM
(showing kabupaten, village name, population and PODES acor)
KAALPATEN:    PSOSOUcGOO           "s x> x    KASuPATEN:  *OJONumOo                          KABUPATeS   rA
KfCAMATAN     OSA      PENUOUCIK    TOTAL     KECASATAN   DSA       PENDUOUK    TOTAL        KECAMATAN  DoA         PolM        IOTAL
ThMAL SIWALAN  GUNUNG SfM       174     so   SUG1WArAS   NGLAJANG    r        sJ  44         TORJUN      PANfLAMGM          1646
T30AL .WALAN  TEfALSONo        22" U    3    SUGIWARAS   KEDUNGDOWO          1144     3       0 TORJUN   PACAAAM            1449
TIMIS         RACEK             "a      so   KEDUNGADOM  SAgA          J      71     37      TOrJUN      OULAN              gm
rTM           ReUaN            448      44  KIUNGACM  PFJOK                  Re      37      TORJUN      PATARONSA          am
TUE           WEOUSAN         216             KEDUNGADEM  GeGER              301s    37      TORJUN       mimom Hor"L       t1m 
PAKUNNAN      KUDUNGSUMt        rD 7    31   SAURENO       TANOUNIGAN       1401     a3
PAKUNNAN      KALIDANDAN        713    as   UAURENO        POIAAN            m1              TOPrJuN      SATAPA T           SI
PAKONPAN      SUMBING          1177    36                . LEDAX2AA1S     J             T OR JUN                            urns     a
PAKIuHPAN     PATEMON K*ON      014     A      AURLENO     KAOUNGREJO        344             TOR                
PAJUNIrAN     ALASPANDAN       1754           BAUSENO      PUCANQAtUu         s      s       TORUN        KASA              -S       a
T70JAM      KARA               5665    3
KAOLRATfN:   rPAuSuiA                         SAHEN        NGAOLLUNUS        MI      42      SAMPANG      PAIAKN            1ow      a
ALEN         KASUNAN          3244     1      SAPANG       TAMAN SN            _      a
KfCAMATAN    DESA      PaCDUDu     TOTAL      KAr-AS       St OGO   GO       2US,1    3      SAMPANO    Pre wOGA            a        a
KECAMATAN  0554    PENDUOUX   ~~~~~~~KAASA      6000             1037     34     SAMPANG      KAM60535          31       a
USPO         JANJANO WULUNG   3471      34    KAKALAN                        213             SAMPANG      sAMIMA            USW      S
PUSPO         PALANG SAI        1n6     34
Pruro         KEMISI           zn       J4    MALO         DUKUH LOR         low      35     KOUN10OUN0 om 4n 
TOSANI        KANOANGAN        1107     3       A244 46                                      KRDUNU rAS
TOSARI        MOROREJO      I        Q4         AL 1O3    5fTAK            tJ7 as            ROSATAL    USRAN4
toLNfr           1040     44     ROSATAL      TLANSA             no      4
PLEPO        JISSARAN           3m      35                 SUDAN             1365     s      ROSATAL      SUMATET           am       a
Pu ro         KEOUWUNG         lO041    J?
PUSPO         KUWUNG            US            KAIUPATEN:
PUSPO     ~~PUSUNG I4ALANG    2541   as                 KAOALNnoUaaaUm   auras. EMa                                      -~g     a
PURSPAN       SAFULANTl        140e    4*                           ROATAL                                SWuLl             am  S
LUSSANG       WONORSEO         1473     44    KAfCAUATAN   DeSA    reNTALr    USl 75136                                     am        l
NWAPJ VAR                         SCU~~~~~~~ATAL  0fil
PAIREPAN      GALIH            3114     40    KWANYAP       OUWKE BUTfR      1022     as     ROSATAL      TRAS              9also    8
PASREPAN      P11UNG           3013     3        A          PAORAN           lnt      37
PASPEPAN      KLAJAH    -      1017    40    KWAU YAR       CUMUNGG AAtNl1    3474    *      K         .JUPATas  SUUUi     - 4S
WVNONGAN       0400N3R         2244     *?      oUNG                         14ANO9   40 A7
WINONGAN      KEDUNG REJO      24U7     36      ODUNG       GLISOM           1"       40     KECAMATAN   DM         P      tU   TOrAL
KASLPATEN:  NHANJUK-; OLE"                                  SATES            iST             TALA40O      COMA              O    S 1
5110A        KA4AN5 PANA AN    r0                                        - 44   s _
KECAMATAN   D09A       PENDOIUK    TOTAL                    KARANaOIAGKA    * t       4      TANAo        P Om1 St                   aS
OGA        ALASRAJA          42S4     r     TALANGO      PALA             e 401    U
GONDANG      SUMSERJO          3J   37  SALl                 3ALATEflW        11is    34    TALAN*0  t APURANA               PU      a
aoNOANG      NOUHGO            3l0    as
GONDANG      MOJOSETO          1017    32    KONANG         GAL4 OAYA         17U
OONDANG      PANDEJ            low      a3    GoaeG         LEuPAK            4664           LErEQ        K      A ARAT              44
aofom        KASOLUARG         tm       4      tINTENG      TANtOAW           am6    41
GOHOANO      CAMPUS            477      *7    atoGGeATDA UNO4                 94      44        f           AIW                8     4
QONOANG  5 ENJAYAN             Ils     44                  SAWfUNPENO LACK    2       7      LEaNTNO    AMIDEAS              m      4*
GONDANG      KWUNG GLUGU       136      34    DAU is                                                            tSt  IS o
GONDANG      JAAN              4145     34                 KsMU.a             4144     6t
NOLUYU       LfNOKONG LOR       643     45    GALJ          TAn.              sm       iS
LEOKONa    NHEUNO              14s1     37    GOAUt         LANK5ART          a        40
PSOPNSI:    JAWATIMLM                          GAm          LANTEKTIMIS       J47S
OALS          DALEMAN          US
TANAiH URAH  PACfNTAN           m6      6
TANAN SASAN   5A9*AJUN.        4374    36
TRAa"         SAJEUAN          43       di
TRAGAH        TAM              n4T      Ss
TRAGAH        DUKOTAIN         r77      Ss
AROSSAYA      PANOAN W41AN4    1067    25
AROSSAYA      SATONAONG         34      S
AROS AYA      0USL             2102     2
AOUSAYA       ALUNG            1344     S
AROSIAVA      KARANG DUWAK    1661      3



31
YOGYAKARTA, VIILAGES IN FIRST YEAR PROGRAM
(showmg kabupaten, village nam, populadon and PODES swc)
YASUPATEN:         GUNUNs mU ouit         o
KECAMATAN          DESA                             PENOUU      TaTAL
PALWYAN            KRAMUL SAWIr                             t1O7     4S
PALIYAN            KANIGORO                                          46
PALIYAN            KVESK                                    476       a
PALIYAN            NOLOAO                                   367      45
TEPUS              KEMAOANG                                 60
PALrYAN            PLANJAN                                  357      47
PALN.AN            MANOGOL                                  484      44
PALrYAN            GOING                                     am      45
PALrWAN            5000                                     416      46
TUPUS              KEMtI                                     47,    U
TIPUS              SANJAREJO                                 50
TEPUS              NOESTIEJO                                 6461    47
TEPUS              TEPI55a                                           4
TEPUS              SUMBER WUNGU                             63       45
TEPUS              NANOOSAI                                  U       4S
TEPUS              PUN WODADI                               so"      47
TEPUS              GOPANGUNNG                               SW7    40
RONGKOP            OALONG                                     II 4I
RONGKOP            JPrrTu                                   3m       5
RONGKOP            SOTODAYAKAN                              511S     43
RONOKOP            TLENG                                     4434    47
RONGKOP            PUCUNG                                   343      45
RONOKOP            SONGSANYU                                 m7      n
RONOKOP            JERUK WUDEL                              am      4*
RONOKOP            NOLINOLU                                E61       44
PATUK              LAMPANG                                  n1se     8
PATUK              SEUT                                     H466     47
OLlPARt            WATU GAJAH                               4773    47
NOLIPAR            MENTELU                                  413      44
NOAWEN            TEOALReJo                                   1      *S
abl-Lwk 16 DES 13






33
Annex 3
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
Grant Authorization, Funds and Reporting Flows
-   World Bank/RSI I
r ----------                   = 
BAPPENAS                       MoF       1                        BI          |         Pusat
IDT Secretariat                SPABP             - _              GOI         SA
Consultants                                                   financing-
copy                        F i
Engineers                    KPKN                         r   BRI Cabang            Province
copy         copy
i- _   =  - --       PIMPRO                                                 Kabupaten
copy,
Field Engineers                Camat                            BRI Unit
/-LKMD Acct                                                                    Kecamatan
- 10                ; - -  -      r i LKMD                                      Desa
L Suppliers 
STEPS
I   - - --  - -         Infrastructure grant authorization for disbursement
2                       Fund flow prefinancing
3   -  - --             LKMD project assistance agreements
4   -                   LKMD invoices (1st for certification, then to BRI Unit) for projects agreed
5    ---                BRI payments to LKMD/Suppliers
6   -     - -           Disbursement reporting (every 15 days/monthly)
7   --         -=       MoF reimbursement requests w/SOEs
8                       WB reimbursements



34
Annex 4
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
Action Plan
Policy Outline                           Rationale               Responsible Agency     Date
The Government of Indonesia will take    Many local              Ministry of Home       October 1995
measures to ensure that the Laws and     authorities/officials   Affairs                (in Rakorbang
Decrees concerning the payment of all local  appear to unaware of  (Dit.Jen.PUOD)       process)
levies, taxes and retributions on goods  the national laws
transported are understood and followed by   regarding "retribusi"
local authorities. In particular, Home   payments, particularly
Affairs Ministerial Decrees No. 48/1984  in relation to
and No 29/1986 will be re-issued and     transportation of goods
explained to Province and Kabupaten      between Kabupatens.
Governments. Appropriate measures will
be undertaken in specific Kabupatens where  The Ministerial Decrees
these Decrees have not been properly     name a number of
implemented and enforced. These two      commodities for which
Decrees prohibit the imposition of any local  inter-Kabupaten
taxes or levies on a number of important  transport levies should
exportable commodities, many of which are  not be paid, principally
produced in poverty areas such as IDT    in an effort to
villages.                                encourage exports.
The Government of Indonesia will         To have the maximum                            by April, 1996
reevaluate the existing scope of these   impact on poverty
above mentioned Decrees.                 reduction, a new list of
goods which should be
Additional commodities such as sand,     exempted will be                                1996, as a
stone, albizzia, timber, coconuts and fruits   prepared and                             result of above
may be the subject of a new Decree by the   appropriate steps taken.                    reevaluation
Ministry of Home Affairs.
"Retribusi" payments
Pendampings for IDT will be informed as    can cause serious price                      starting June
part of their general training of the decrees   distortions as low cost                  1995
in order to disseminate the information.  goods are "taxed" at the
same rates as those of
higher value.
Information on producer prices, market   Currently, regular radio   Ministry of Trade   Preparation
conditions and marketing channels will be    broadcasts concerning    (Dit.Jen Perdagangan  starting June
provided to local radio broadcast stations,    market prices are  Dalam Negri)           1995
to complement existing broadcasts on     broadcast at the local
consumer prices.                        level. To these some     & Ministry of          Implementation
strategic retail prices  Information           starting April 1,
should be added so as to                       1996.
inform - village level
producers of the current
value of their goods.
Source: GOI



35
Annex 5
INDONESIA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT for POOR VILLAGES ON JAVA
OPTIMAL YEARLY SCHEDULE
Month                              Task                                  Agency
July/August        -1.   Shortlist core TA firms and invite proposals  - IDT Secretariat
Aug./Sept.         -2.   Received and evaluate proposals, select firm,
sign contract.                               - IDT Sec./PMU
3.   Preparation consultants to review suitability of   - IDT Sec./Prepar. TA
procurement/contract forms of Dinas PU for
contracting at local level.
September          -4.   Select villages for project year              - IDT Sec./PMU/Kabupatens
November           -5.   Core TA mobilize
6.   Local engineers/Pimpros shortlisted,
invited to submit bids and selected          - Dinas PU/Core TA
December           -7.  Inform selected villages of the program       - Camats
8.   Local engineers: contracts effective and
start their training                         - Core TA/Dinas
January            -9.   Villages present to camat and TA, sub-project
proposals and number of villagers and length of
time wanted to work                          - Villagers
-10.  Continue training of local engineers         - TA
February           -11.  Visit to villages to review proposals, cost estimates,
procurement needs, implementation arrangements,
etc.                                         - TA
March/April        -12.  Designs prepared, procurement/implementation
launched                                     - Dinas/TA/villagers
May/Sept.          -13.  Works proceed                                 - Villagers/contractors/TA/Dinas
October            -14.  Final report at village level                 - Village/Dinas/TA
Note: steps 1, 2, 3 and 5 apply to year I only and would be compressed if the works are to start in 1995.






Annex 6
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN LKMD AND FIELD ENGINEER ACTING FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE PIMPRO
FOR THE VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE ASSISTANCE GRANT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
General Conditions of Agreement ........................I
Sample Form of Agreement ..2.....................2
General Specifications ..........................................................................................................................................
(developed per nature of works in Project Manual)
January 1995



38
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
3.1.   Duties of the Field Engineer (acting for DPUK pimpro)
a.    Verify subproject proposal and assist with preparation.
b.     Supervise implementation of works.
c.    Arrange payment documentation for work performed.
d.    Accept completed works.
3.2.   Duties of the LKMD
a.    Implement the works in accordance with the specifications and Technical Guidelines for Works
in the Project Manual provided by the Field Engineer.
b.    Provide materials, equipment and personnel; unskilled personnel will have to be village labor
as per the Manual, in accordance with the agreement and Technical Guidelines.
c.    Provide local management (team leader, foreman, administration) and pay at appropriate cost
based on the agreement.
3.3.   The works shall not be contracted without approval from the Field Engineer/Pimpro.
3.4.   The LKMD must obey existing rules and regulations, and respect local customs.
3.5.   Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the LKMD which obstructs or damages the work.
Such an event must be reported to the Field Engineer within 7 days. The Field Engineer may agree to
costs resulting therefrom, and prepare a agreement addendum if needed.
3.6.   Differences of opinion that may occur between the LKMD and the Field Engineer should be brought
for discussion with the Engineer/management consultant immediately at the kecamatan. Settlement of
such differences shall be decided by the Engineer/management consultant and be based on factual
evidence and the Agreement. If they entail costs justified in the opinion of the Engineer/management
consultant due to changes of original specifications, then an Agreement addendum has to be prepared.
3.7.   Non-compliance by the LKMD
The LKMD shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with clauses 3.2. or 3.4. or does not obey
the warnings of the Field Engineer. The Field Engineer shall give written notice to the LKMD of any
non-compliance and send copy to the Engineer/management consultant.
3.8.   Sanctions
a.    In relation to negligence of the LKMD under clause 3.7., payments to the LKMD shall be
postponed until the cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the Field Engineer in
accordance with the Agreement.
b.    If within 15 days of receiving a warning under clause 3.7. the LKMD leader takes no corrective
action, then the Field Engineer may propose to the Pimpro to appoint an alternative leader or to
appoint a third party to carry out the works.
3.9.   Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the Field Engineer in
accordance with the Agreement or addendum if any.
3.10.  Reporting by the LKMD
a.    Weekly personnel records.
b.    Weekly equipment record.
c.    Weekly progress of works.
d.    Monthly cumulative progress.
Attachment I - Agreement Form



39
LKMD:
Address:
DIPDA No.                           , Date
SPABP No.                          , Date
.... ... .... ... ... .... .. ..... ... ... .... ... .... ... ... .... ... .... ............................................... ... ........... ... ... .... ... ...
IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT No._
for
_ WORK/SUPPLIES
IN KABUPATEN                 IN KECAMATAN                   VILLAGE
No.:                        /                  /199
Date:
Location:
A. We, the undersigned:
1. NAME:
TITLE: Field Engineer
ADDRESS: JI.
hereinafter referred to as the FIRST PARTY.
Authorized to act on behalf of the Government Dati II Kabupaten as Employer, by assignment letter dated
No.
2. NAME:                                              (LKMD)
TITLE:                                             (kepala desa)
ADDRESS: JI._
hereinafter referred to as the SECOND PARTY.
B. Both parties agree:
a. Type of Works:
b. Location:
c. Description:
d. Value of Agreement: Rp.
(in words)
e. Execution period:                       calendar days from the date of signing the agreement,
without warranty period.
f. Payment: Up to 10% advance to be netted out of payments of the first 2 months. Payments
every 2 weeks proportional to physical progress as stated in bills certified by the Field
Engineer and the final hand-over.
h. Condition for
Execution:      As stated in the attached General Conditions of Agreement.
i. Miscellaneous:  - 5 copies of agreement, 2 copies with Rp. 2,000 duty stamp.
- Copy of contract shall be sent to Pimpro (DPUK).
SECOND PARTY              FIRST PARTY          Acknowledged by      Acknowledge by
Head of LKMD              for Pimpro           Camat                Field Engineer
Pimpro
_               )L(                         (  



40
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Documentation for Procurement of Small Civil Works/Supplies
(for contract values between Rp. 10 million and Rp. 50 million)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Invitation to Bid and Instructions to Bidders ..............................I
General Conditions of Contract ...2...........................2
Samnple Form of Contract/Work Order ...3...........................3
Sample Form of Quotation ..............................4
General Specifications  ................................................................................................................................
(to be developed per nature of works in forthcoming Works Project Manual)
January 1995



41
1. INVITATION TO BID
1.1 Works: .
1.2    Kabupaten/Kecamatan/Village:
SPABP  Inpres  ................................................
Date .    No.
DIPDA   Inpres  ................................................
Date .    No.
1.3    Appointment Procedure
Activity                    Location             Date   Hour  Remark
1.3.1. Collect Bid Document        LKMD office                        Free of Charge
1.3.2. Explain Documents          idem                                Site Visit
1.3.3. Submit Bid                 idem                                Duty Stamps
Rp. 2000
1.3.4. Evaluate/Negotiate         idem
1.3.5. Appoint Contractor         idem
1.3.6.  Sign Contract              idem                               Duty Stamps
Rp. 2000
2.    INSTRUCTION TO BIDDERS
2.0.   The contractor will be selected after review of 3 quotations from different sources for local
shopping and I quotation for direct contracting, contract values cannot exceed Rp. 10 million
for direct contracting and Rp. 50,000,000 for local shopping (Keppres 16/94).
2.1.   Quotation Form attached.
2.2.   Contract Form attached.
2.3.   Attachment to the Quotation Form: Schedule of Activities and Prices
2.4.   Contract Period: (3-6) months from the date of signing of Contract.
2.5.   Type of Contract; Unit Price of Lump Sum, without escalation.
2.6.   Payment for Achievement:
Semi-Monthly: After certification for works completed in 2 week period; the last payment,
after issuing a Certificate of Hand-over.



42
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT
3.1.   Duties of the LKMD Head (contract/owner)/Field Engineer (acting for DPUK)
a.    Supervise implementation of works.
b.    Arrange payment documents for work performed.
c.    Accept completed works.
3.2.   Duties of the Supplier
a.    Implement the works in accordance with the specifications and Technical Guidelines for Works
in the Project Manual provided by the Field Engineer.
b.    Provide materials, equipment and personnel; unskilled personnel will have to be village labor
as per the Manual, in accordance with the contract and Technical Guidelines.
3.3.   The works shall not be sub-contracted without approval from Field Engineer.
3.4.   The Supplier must obey existing rules and regulations, and respect local customs.
3.5.   Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the Supplier which obstructs or damages the work.
Such an event must be reported to the Field Engineer within 7 days. The Field Engineer may agree to
costs resulting therefrom, and prepare a contract addendum if needed.
3.6.   Differences of opinion that may occur between the Supplier and the LKMD should be brought for
discussion with the Field Engineer immediately. Settlement of such differences shall be decided by the
Engineer/management consultant and be based on factual evidence and the contract. If they entail costs
justified in the opinion of the Field Engineer due to changes of original specifications, then a contract
addendum has to be prepared.
3.7.   Non-compliance by the Supplier
The Supplier shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with clauses 3.2. or 3.4. or does not obey
the warnings of the Contract Owner or Field Engineer. The LKMD or Engineer shall give written
notice to the Supplier of any non-compliance.
3.8.   Sanctions
a.    In relation to negligence of the Supplier under clause 3.7., payments to the Supplier shall be
postponed until the cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the LKMD/Field Engineer
in accordance with the Contract.
b.    If within 7 days of receiving a warning under clause 3.7. the Supplier takes no corrective
action, the LKMD/Field Engineer may terminate the contract and appoint a third party to carry
it out.
3.9.   Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by LKMD/Field Engineer in
accordance with the contract or addendum if any.
3.10.  Reporting by the Supplier
a.    Weekly personnel records.
b.    Weekly equipment record.
c.    Weekly progress of works.
d.    Monthly cumulative progress.
Attachment I - Agreement Form
Attachment 2 - Bid Form



43
ATrACHWENT 1:
LKMD:
Address:
DIPDA No.                           , Date
SPABP No.                         , Date
Implementation Agreement No.         Date
CONTRACT AGREEMENT
for
WORK/SUPPLIES
IN KABUPATEN                 IN KECAMATAN                  VILLAGE
No.:                       /                   /199
Date:
Location:
A. We, the undersigned:
1. NAME:
TITLE: Project Manager of the Works-LKMD
ADDRESS: Jl.
hereinafter referred to as the FIRST PARTY.
Authorized to act on behalf of the Government Dati II Kabupaten as Employer, by assignment letter
dated                     No.
2. NAME:                                              (Supplier)
TIT'LE:                                            (Director)
ADDRESS: Jl.
hereinafter referred to as the SECOND PARIY.
B. Both parties agree to enter into Contract as the result of tendering:
a. Type of Works:
b. Location:
c. Description:
d. Value of Contract: Rp.
(in words)
e. Execution period:                      calendar days from the date of signing the contract,
without warranty period.
f. Payment:  Up to 10% advance to be netted out of payments of the first 2 months. Payments
every 2 weeks proportional to physical progress as stated in bills certified by the Field
Engineer and the final hand-over.
h. Condition for Execution: As stated in the attached General Conditions of Contract.
i. Miscellaneous:  - 5 copies of contract, 2 copies with Rp. 2,000 duty stamp.
- Copy of contract shall be sent to Pimpro (DPUK).
SECOND PARTY              FIRST PARTY          Acknowledged by
Supplier                  LKMD                 Field Engineer



44
ATTACHMENT 2:
...................................................................................................................................................................................
To:    The Project Manager of
QUOTATION
I.     Having examined the Quotation Documents, comprising the Invitation to Bid, the Instruction to
Bidders, the General Conditions and Technical Guidelines for Works in the Project Manual, related to
the following works:
Description    :
of             :
Works          :
I/We the undersigned offer to implement the whole of the said works in conformity with the aforesaid
documents for the sum of:
Rp                             (in figures)
(in words)                   [-
As detailed in the Attachment to the Quotation showing schedule of Activities and Prices (form to be
developed in Manuat).
2.     I/We undertake to commence the works on the date of signing the Contract and to complete and to
hand-over the works comprised in the contract within the period stated in the bid document.
3.     This Quotation is valid for one month from its date.
Date _
Supplier Name
Address
Supplier Signature
( Director )



45
Annex 7
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
Performance Indicators
Physical progress as well as other aspects of the project will be monitored and reflected
in a progress reporting system as included in the Project Manual.
Among the indicators that will be monitored periodically are the following:
Employment impact
man-days of employment (on a 6 hour daily basis)
% women,
% young
average daily pay
total payments to labor
payments for material supplies
Subprojects
Completed:
kms of road
number of bridges
number of docks/piers
sanitation facilities
water supply subprojects
other;
(specify)
Number of beneficiaries:
average per subproject
total
cost per beneficiary (on sampling basis)
Less frequent reports, and in particular an evaluation report on broader impact
monitoring will also be prepared. Given the short project implementation period, of 2-3 years, it
is not expected that broader impacts could be fully captured by the mid-term review in February
1996.






47
Annex 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input.
a.    Regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc. are estimated to require four staff weeks per year. The staff input
indicated in the table overleaf is additional based on (i) the key activities mentioned in
Annex 5 (Optimal yearly schedule), and (ii) the assumption that a third year 1997/98 will
be needed to complete the civil works program.
b.    Each of the four provinces should be visited at least once per year during project
implementation. Given the geographic dispersion of the villages, each supervision mission
should focus on only a few clusters which would be deemed typical because of their
characteristics and their performance, as shown by the progress reports.
C.    Staff from the Resident Mission would assist in the supervision of this project, in particular
(i) in the environmentaVsocial impact reviews and (ii) in the random ex-post review of the
large amount of SOE documentation.
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
a.    A Project Launch Workshop is to be organized by GOI, after full mobilization of the EMC
and the Field Engineers, but before the start of the civil works period (May to September).
b.    The IDT Project Secretariat is to be the responsible for project coordination, for
arrangements for Bank supervision missions, and for providing requested information.
c.    Review meetings with the participation of the various project agencies will be held
normally in February of each year, to discuss the previous year's performance and the
current year program. The February 1996 will be a mid-term project implementation
review.
d.    Quarterly Progress reports will report on physical progress as well as other aspects of the
project. A sample of the indicators to be used as part of the reporting/monitoring system
are described in Annex 7.



48
Annex 8
Page 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Dates                                                   Skill         Input
Activity                           Needs         (staff-weeks)
04/95         Project launch workshop
(to clarify project objectives/requirements)  CE, ESI          2
06/95         Supervision Mission
(to review initial project arrangements,  E, ESI               2
and start-up of first year works contracts)
09/95         Supervision Mission                       CE, E,               2
(to review progress in civil works,       ESI
and monitoring activities)
12/95         Assist in/review preparation of 1996/97   CE, E                2
program on the basis of experience
of 1995/96 program. Review reform action plan
02/96         Supervision Mission                       CE, E,               4
(mid-term PIR to review all aspects of    ESI
the project, especially performance
adequacy of project arrangements including
for maintenance activities, quality of
consultancy services)
06/96         Supervision Mission                       CE, ESI              2
(to review, inter alia, second year
works contracts)
09/96         Supervision Mission                       CE, E,               3
(to discuss program performance           ESI
including reform action plan and
monitoring activities)
12/96        Assist in/review preparation of 1997/98    CE, E                 2
program
1997          Three Supervision Missions                CE, E,               8
(of which one for preparation of ICR)     ESI
CE=Civil Engineering, E=Economics, ESI=Environment/Social Impact (RSI)



49
Annex 9
page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
GUIDELINES FOR COMPENSATION FOR LAND OR ASSET ACQUISITION
bjectives
1.    Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be physically displaced under
subprojects financed under the Project. Subproject proposals that would require demolishing houses or
acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to minimize their impacts through alternative
alignments. Proposals that require more than minor expansion along rights of way should be reviewed
carefully. Land or other assets may be acquired through
(a) Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, villagers may elect to voluntarily
contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or permanently from their land without a
compensation;
(b) Contributions against compensation.  A contributor considered "affected" will be eligible for
compensation.
2.     These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons under 1.(b)
above, to ensure that all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be
assisted to improve, or at least restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to
pre-project levels. However, if acquired assets are less than 20%, the field engineer may dispense with
the procedural requirements delineated in para. 5 below.
Compensation Principles
3.     The LKMD shall ensure that any of the following means of compensation are timely provided to
affected persons (the village grant cannot be used to pay compensation):
(a) replacement land with an equally productive plot or other equivalent productive assets;
(b) materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures to be demolished;
(c) replacement of damaged or lost crops at market value;
(d) other acceptable in-kind compensation.
Consultation Process
4.     The LKMD will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets located in a proposed
subproject area, are consulted. There will be a village meeting to inform villagers about their rights to
compensation and options available in accordance with these Guidelines. The Minutes of the village
meeting shall reflect the discussions held, agreements reached, and include the following:
(a) for any voluntary contributions, name of contributor and details about the contribution;
(b) for land/asset acquisition against compensation, names of affected persons and details about the nature
and level of compensation.



50
Annex 9
page 2 of 2
Summay                                    AmountCo nsation            Areeent reached
(1) agric. land (m2)
(2) plots:
area affected (m2)
houses/structures
to be demolished (units/m2)
(3) trees or crops affected
(4) signatures of villagers, kepala desa
(5) record of any complaints raised by affected persons
(6) map attached (showing affected areas and replacement areas)
5.    The field engineer shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and confirm in
discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation, agreements reached, and
any eventual complaint.
Subprqject Approyal
6.    In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the field engineer shall:
(a) not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed between the affected
person and the LKMD, as mentioned above;
(b) not allow works to start until the compensation has been completed satisfactorily to the affected
persons;
(c) in the unlikely event that more than 200 persons were affected and required compensation in a village,
a compensation plan has to be prepared, and approved by the IDT Secretariat, before the subproject can
be approved.
Complaints and Grievances
7.     All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the village level. If this fails,
complaints and grievances about these Guidelines, implementation of the agreements recorded in the
Village Minutes or any alleged irregularity in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the
affected persons or their representative at the kecamatan level. If this also fails, the complaint may be
submitted to the Bupati for a decision.
Verification
8.     The village Minutes and evidence of compensation having been made shall be provided to the
field engineer assisting the village, to supervising engineers, auditors and socio-economic monitorers
when undertaking reviews under the Project.



51
Annex 10
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FOR JAVA
SAMPLE ECONOMIC RETURNS TO VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
I.    In addition to employment benefits and reduced unit costs of works, the assets to be built under the
project have high rates of return. A majority of the funds will likely be used to build all weather access
roads and bridges. For instance, the kabupatens on the south coast of West Java have some of the lowest
agricultural potential in the province: excluding the kabupaten Garut, 2 of whose kecamatan are covered by
an ADB marginal farmer community development project, the other 6 kabupaten cover some 10,000 km2
transversed east-west by a mountain range with poor soils at mid altitudes, used for secondary growth and
shifting cultivation that yield low incomes although they could be used for higher value, but capital
intensive, crops. The 6 kabupaten include 711 villages identified as poor for the 1994 IDT, distributed in 42
kecamatans (averaging 15 poor villages per kecamatan--there would be more villages, non-poor, and not
counted here). Many of the poor villages lack all weather access to their kecamatan center; at an assumed
2,500 persons per village (less than the average 3,200 for West Java) the poor village population would total
some 1.8 million. Paths have considerable traffic--several villages may use a common access--and their
upgrading to all weather possibility has good economic returns. Access road and bridge examples can
illustrate:
(a) The 500 family village Cidadap, in the kabupaten Lebak of West Java, has an average income per
family of only Rp.150,000 per month. It also has a 5 km clayish surfaced access road that becomes
impassable for 4 wheel vehicles (even 4 wheel-drive vehicles) in the rainy season;
(i) The village has abundant rambutan trees, that produce more than 1000 tons of fruit per year.
The fruits are highly priced in cities (Rp.700 per kg at the kabupaten capital) but they must be
harvested and transported to markets in one peak week, during the rainy season. Due to the access
road condition, only some fruit is hanged on sticks (pikul) and carried by porters to the asphalt road,
at a cost of Rp.50 per kg, and the farmgate price is only Rp.400 per kg. With an all weather road,
transport by van would cost about Rp.15 per kg instead of Rp.50 for the 5 km. Thus the road
improvement, at a cost of some Rp.120 million, would allow an additional income per year from
rambutan alone of at least Rp.30 million (transport cost savings for some 800 tons). The rate of
return of the village grant would be more than 30% on this basis alone (the village porters could
become harvesters or packers and not lose income).
(ii) But the return is higher: the cost of transport of other products would also be reduced--on
average per ton-km from Rp.10,000 by pikul to Rp.2,860 by van, or even less by medium sized
truck; and
(iii) Passenger traffic, more than 10 vehicles per day in the dry season, could continue in the rainy
season. The cost per passenger-km in rainy seasons, more than Rp.500 by motorcycle (the local
taxi) would decrease to Rp.140, the rate by van in dry seasons--high school age children, who
cannot afford the motorcycle from the village to the school in town, at Rp.5000 per day, or the cost
of staying in town, could attend school.
(iv) In all, the road improvement should have a return exceeding 40%.



52
(b) Other villages may not have such high value crops, but if a road improvement generates just 3 van retirn
trips per day during the rainy season, then its cost could have a 10% rate of return (from savings compared
to the cost by motorcycle), and traffic generation is likely to be higher, given the large village populations.
Thus overall and in particular when it makes access possible, road improvement has high returns.
(c) Java has numerous small and medium sized rivers that swell in the rainy season making boat passage
very dilficult. Small rivers usually span makeshift bridges that may not allow cars to pass and need
improvemenit or upgrading.  Larger rivers sometimes isolate villages. isolated villagers would like
sLIspension bridges that can carry pedestrians and motorcycles to render jobs, markets and schools
accessible. In one village a 50 meter suspension bridge had been built with Red Cross support of only
$15,000 dollars equivalent for materials and with free labor provided by villagers (see picture overleaf); this
bridge had integrated the village with the "other" side. Thus the cost of such bridges is low and their
economic returns are very high.
2.     Additional supplies of drinking water is also a high priority of many villages. During dry seasons
many villages relying on surface water for drinking water face shortages and villagers have to walk long
distances to fetch water from a natural source or have to pay for water delivery. Some other projects such
as the Bank's Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities (Ln. 3629) are already assisting in
providing drinking water, but they are not covering all the poor villages that need it. Provision of clean
water has high returns, in terms of time saved and improved health standards.
3.     Villagers may also choose to build sanitation facilities, storage sheds for agricultural produce,
drainage improvemenlts or other small infrastructures that they consider to be of priority. The communal
selection process, and the requirement of a minimum number of users per infrastructure/a maximum cost
per beneficiary (to be included in the Project Manual) should help guarantee that only justified projects are
uLidertaken.



53
Annex I I
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
(a)   Japan Development Institute, ECFA, Tokyo and PT Intersys Kelola Maju, Jakarta
(1994) Rural Areas Infrastructure Development Supporting Data and Analysis of the
Financial Requirements for "Desa Tertinggal", Final Draft, prepared for
OECF/BAPPENAS.
(b)    Government of Indonesia (1994) Infrastructure Project for Poor Villages on Java,
Progress Report.
(c)    Roger D. Montgomery, Hunting Technical Services Ltd. (1995) Site Visits to West
Java and South Sumatera. Mid-term Report.






IBRD 26797
I .   I                                                                                             llro                                                llr                                    T              '^              4^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS.I
INDONESIA                                                                                                      Th.e  o un dares,  olors,
denmiatinsand   any
ohrinformation  show
VILLAGE CLUSTERS IN FIRST YEAR PROGRAM                                                                                                        imply onte hport noft
The World Sank Group.
any judgment on the iegol
SUMATERA                                  S           h                                                           PROJECT KABUPATENS(DISTRICTS) nor  ony endorsement
or accptanc   of such
*            VILLAGES OF 5 CLUSTER                                                                                      boun,dries.        o
CL7 in o1
*             NATIONAL CAPITAL
Se ~                                                                 KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
'A    7'.>                 D.IK./.                                                  0            50     INTERNATIONAL   BOUNDARIES
D. K.I.t
JAKARTA--0                                                                                                                                            Java
/20               -                                                         0            50 100                    150          200
IL                 JAKARTA       17              >      '                                KILOMETERS
3             *:gor  0                                                          9                2    Magelong                            Surcr3 Bogor  116    15
11 G               2m~                                                                 Cirebon J
12UMoiclk            JAWA                BATATE12NiiG>~AHkalongon ,                                                                                                            _M.a'.ulra'
I bkabumi-       21                                              29      28    27  26gw             2 4         21                                -32
17JAcoWA n4  Bcnjornegr BARAT                   22  BoBndung                        10       JAWA   T         In                                                16
1  PondegJang              S                           6                                                                      2S        g'
2  Lebak                    7  Wonosobo         25                                                                                                                                                     Su
3B Kogr                                                                              9                2                              8    2     Sukra          216                                   15, 
4 Skabody                                                                8                    1 1                                                                                      Moiokeri 2Kn
I Cioniur                                                                                                                                                               1             -  -o o9suruan
6Bondutg                                                                           -    --.'Y ykarta  10   11   13                                           20    MadL                17      *rblin'~ ~
o  TGsrkmnul                                                                                              W212                                                             JA A TIMURKd                                                 1
9 Ciamis                         2NIN OC A 
I0  Kuningan                                                                                                          YO      YAb3 75   1                                                           a g 7
I1Cirebon                                                                                    JAWA TIMUR                                                                                                                        9 Ils  .~
12  maolankoaA ATEG H1
31  Sumedong                         JAWA T                                      18  Pocitan         19   Modiun ci
14 Incramayu                 1  Cilocap           19  Kudus                      2  Ponorogo        20   Mageton
15  Subang                   2  Bonyumas          20  JIeporo                    3  Trenggalek      2 1   Ngawi-
1 6Purwakarta                2  Purbolingga       2 1  Demnak                    4  Tlulngagung   22   Boionegora
1 7Korswong                  4  Banjarnegara    22  Semorang                     5   Blitar         23   Tuban
18aBekasi                    S  Kebumen           23  Temonggung                 6  Kediri           24   Larnongan
19  Tonggerong               6  Puroorejo         24  Kendal                     7  Malang           25   Gresik---M)                                                                                     iLPN5
20 Seroeg                    7  Wonsosbo          25  Beotng                     8   Lumajeng        26   Bongklceln                                                                   .j 
71  Kodye Sager      8  ~Magelaeg         26  Pelkalongon                9  Jember           27  SompengA
72  Kodya Sukabumi           9  Boyolali(-
73  Kodya Bandung           10  KIaten            27  Pemelong                  10   Boinyuoongi    28   Pamekasan-- 
74  Kedya Cirebon  1  Sukolsarjo    28Tegal                       11  Boncdoooso       29  Sumenep
12  Wonogiri         29  Brebes                    1      iuod           1 KdcKdr 
D.I.YOGYAKARTA  13  Koranganyar    71   Kodya Magelang      13  Probolinggo    72   Kodyo Blitar                            .,-
13  Kaangayor    7   Koda Maglang     14  Pesuruan         73   Kodyo molong-
14  Stagen            72  Kodyc Surakcarta         15   Sidoarjo        74   Kodys Probolinggo                                      *JO-         - 
IKulon Progo               5Geeo                73  Kedya Scatibga            16  Moiokerto        75   Kodyo Pasuruan           S
i. 2  Bantul                   16  Blors             74  Kodys Semerong            17  Jombetg          76   Kodya Mojoketlo 
3Gunung Kid.1             17  Ren,bang          75  Kodya Pekalongon          18  Ngenjuk          77   Kodya Madiun                                               e _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _i                                           v
4  Sleman                    18  Pet,              76  Kodys Tegal                                   78   Kodya Surabaya
71   Kodyo Yogyokarts        ________________                                   ________________
MARCH 1995












