Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19099
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3888-IND)
March25, 1999
Transport Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1    = 2,200 Rp (January 1995)
= 2,350 Rp (January 1996)
= 2,400 Rp (January 1997)
= 8,000 Rp (January 1998)
= 13,000 Rp (June 1998)
= 8,000 Rp (January 1999)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
Metric Utits
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS            -           National Development Planning Agency
BRI                 -           Bank Rakyat Indonesia (state-owned commnercial bank)
BPKP                _           National Audit Agency
Bupati              -           Head of Kabupaten
Camat               -           Head of Kecamatan
DPUK                -           Department of Public Works at Kabupaten
INPRES              -           Presidential Instruction, including a class of grants
IDT                 -           Inpres Desa Tertinggal (Program for villages left behind)
ICR                 -           Implementation Completion Report
Kabupaten           -           District
Kecamatan           -           Subdistrict
KDP                             Kecarnatan Development Project
Kepala desa         -           Head of village and of LKMD
LKMD                -           Village commnunity group
MoF                             Ministry of Finance
Pimpro              -           Project manager from DPUK
PMU                 -           Project Management Unit
Repelita            -           Five-year Development Plan
SOE                 -           Statement of expenditure
SUSENAS             -           Household expenditure survey
Vice President:                           Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:                         Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:                           Jitendra Bajpai
Task Manager:                             Frida Johansen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Village Infrastructure Project                                        -i-
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan No. 3888-INI))
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE .............................................................................                                             i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................................  iii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................................    I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ............................................................  1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................... 2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............................................................   6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................................    6
E. BANK PERFORMANCEE ............................................................................                         7
F. THE BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................................................................... 9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................................................    10
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .............................................................................                        11
I.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................................                     12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1:        SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT ..............................................   13
TABLE 2:         RELATED BANK LOANS ..............................................  14
TABLE 3:         PROJECT TIMETABLE ..............................................  14
TABLE 4A:   LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................                                   ................. 15
TABLE 4B:   CONSULTANT CONTRACTS ............................................................................... 15
TABLE 5:        KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (A, B &  C) .....................................  16
TABLE 6:        KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ................                            ...........................  20
TABLE 7:        STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ........................................... 20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .................................... 21
TABLE 8B:   PROJECT FINANCING .........................................  21
TABLE 9:        STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .........................................  22
TABLE 10:   COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ......................................... 23
TABLE 11:   BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..........................................  23
TABLE 12:   BANK RESOURCES: STAFF MISSIONS .........................................  24
ATTACHMENT 1: SAMPLE ECONOMIC RETURNS TO VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE ...........                                        ................... 26
ATTACHMENT 2: AVERAGE NO. OF BENEFICIARIES FOR 96/97 ..................................................  27
PART III: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR  ..........................................................    28
MAP IBRD 26797R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Village Infrastructure Project                  -ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan No. 3888-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) for
which a loan of US$72.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia was approved on May 23, 1995 and
made effective on August 25, 1995.
The Loan was closed on September 30, 1998, the original closing date. The final disbursement took
place on February 22, 1999 at which time the loan balance of US$ 6,850,504.79 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Frida Johansen, Principal Economist and Task Manager. It was reviewed by
Messrs. Dennis de Tray, Country Director, Indonesia and Jitendra Bajpai, Manager by the time of project
completion of the Transport Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region.
Preparation of some ICR tables began in February 1998, by Ephrem Asebe, Consultant (EASTR). The
ICR is based on materials in the project file including data provided by the Government of Indonesia.
BAPPENAS commented on a draft of the ICR and provided the Govemment's evaluation (Part EI), including
their assessment of the project's execution, effectiveness, and impact.



-iii-            Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan No. 3888-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Government requested the Bank assist its new poverty program in 1994. This project was the result
of this request, and it started implementation in 1995.
Project Objectives
The objective was to reduce poverty in poor rural villages in new ways, by promoting village
participation, transparency and decentralization. Each selected village was to build infrastructure of its choice, to
receive a) a one tirne grant, then equivalent to some $54,000, via the local commercial bank branch and b)
technical assistance, directly, via a consultant field engineer assigned to a cluster of 5 villages. The local public
work agency assisted with the public administration. The central government organized and managed the
system, including procurement, training of the engineers, audits and monitoring. The project also was to fund a
study of non-infrastructure constraints to trade and transport in rural areas, with the objective of addressing the
main constraints identified.
Implementation Experience and Results
The above objectives were met, except addressing the non-infrastructure constraints. The project was
implemented in 2 years. A total of 1230 villages compared to 1200 foreseen built a total of 3,680 km of rural
roads, 7,790 meters of bridges, 2,427 water systems, 1,230 communal sanitation units and 2 piers totaling 61
meters. Quality and price were overall good. Benefits from the infrastructure are significant, in addition to the
construction having provided employment for cash to villagers. Transparency was considerably better than under
other projects. The field engineers gained experience that is valuable for subsequent activities. The main concem
remains future maintenance, which is the responsibility of the villages but villagers may not appreciate the
importance of preventive maintenance, and don't like to do it. The study on constraints was well done.
With almost all costs in local currency, the rupiah depreciation reduced the loan dollars needed for the
program. Thus the loan was able to also finance some preparation of the VIP2 (this project followed seamlessly
starting implementation in FY97/98) and preparation of a kecamatan development project during VIP's third
allowed year. The pilot project proved more difficult than envisaged including difficulties with the consultant
retained and definition of an approach; eventually the funds spent in infrastructure and economic activities by the
selected villages seem to have a good economic return but it may not accrue to the poorer villagers as emphasis
was placed on repayment potential (the Kecamatan Development Project started implementation late in FY98).
The loan also financed a study on rural road construction methods, that did not provide new insights. Loan funds
were left over despite these added activities as their cost in dollars turned out to be about a third of the original
estimate due to the 300% depreciation of therupiah in FY98.
The project was subject to intensive supervision and scrutiry, but the supervision cost was no more than
for other projects because of its short implementation period. Three independent reviews were also made, by
QAG, the Water Unit of the Bank/UNDP, and an NGO hired under the Bank aegis, that found the project to be
positive.



Village Infrastructure Project                  - iv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
The project is considered to be highly satisfactory. The project demonstrated that a large scale project
can be used to address village level needs at considerable speed (as replicating franchises) and that villages can
be the "subjects of development rather than the object of development". Also, that task managers should not
simply look up "best practice", but analyze local needs and find local solutions with the local people; and that
Bank managers taking what they perceive to be risks is needed to allow innovation. That the strong government
commitment to the project played a major role in its success is no surprise. Very good consultants at the center
were given latitude and were instrumental in achieving the objectives. The project was designed to be a short
term very simple program, and this indeed facilitated achieving the desired results and to move on, including to
less simple programs. Concems remain about maintenance, but this, and increasing transparency and
participation are gradual processes that have been given a push. The study on constraints was distributed widely
and subsequently served as an input to policy reforms. The review of poverty lines used for Indonesia, indicates
the need to review the appropriateness of the methodology used in their estimation.
The VIP was succeeded by the VIP2 (Ln.4100-IND, $140.1 million FY97) and by the Kecamatan
Development Project (Ln.4330-IND, $225 million FY98). VIP2 extended the approach to an additional 4,500
villages on Java and on Sumatra, and has completed its second year; having 2 projects rather than a larger initial
one seems to have been the right approach. The KDP expands the VIP approach to assist villages by subdistrict
(kecamatan), with both infrastructure and economic activities. It began in 500 kecamatan and will expand over 3
years to 1500 districts throughout Indonesia. Other projects adopted some of the modalities the VIP pioneered,
both in Indonesia and in some other countries.
The project team has become wary of the usefulness of pilots (from the KDP) and of independent
monitoring. Pilots take as much effort as a full fledged project. Independent monitoring does not provide deep
and early insights to enable corrections to the project design on the go if needed (if a country has good
monitoring capacity, which is unlikely, monitoring could be more useful). In-depth supervision by staff familiar
with the project and who know what and where to look for, get more reliable information, can translate it into
corrective action faster while keeping an "institutional memory". However, some independent reviews are
needed.



- 1 -                 Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    Poverty reduction was one of the main objectives of the Government's Five Year Plan 1994-98. Another
objective was decentralization. While earlier programs had been effective in reducing poverty, by 1994 there were
still some 25 million "absolute" poor and many more "near" poor, in a population of 190 million, some two-thirds of
them in rural areas. The instruments foreseen to achieve the poverty reduction objective were a labor intensive
outward oriented growth, human resource development and a new program targeted to poor villages (IDT). The IDT
program provided 20,000 poor villages with Rp2O million each (then almost $10,000 equivalent), 3 times for the
larger villages, 2 times for the medium sized and one time (year) for the smallest ones. The villages were the bottom
third in each district, identified through a census based on a number of indicators, and mainly rural. The funds were to
provide capital to the poorer households in the poorer villages; beneficiaries had to repay the funds so that other poor
could benefit in turn. This program was fully funded by the Government.
2.    In parallel to the IDT program, the Government sought to continue to provide infrastructure to poor villages,
but in a more effective manner than under most earlier and ongoing programs. Some programs had provided
experience on labor intensive methods and showed they could be effective in Indonesia. The Government requested
foreign agencies to assist with the village infrastructure provision, in a decentralized manner. In response, OECF
financed a 1994 study that identified the needs and the cost of provision of minimum village infrastructure, by area.
The Bank agreed to assist with a project as poverty reduction and decentralization were in line with the Bank's
priorities. The Bank also obtained a PHRD grant for independent monitoring of the IDT program, towards gaining
lessons from it for future poverty projects. A completion report dated is being issued separately for the grant.
Project Objectives and Components
3.     Objectives. Thus far, the Bank had assisted road, water, agriculture and other infrastructure projects in
Indonesia, mainly defined and implemented by national ministries and contractors, and with little beneficiary
involvement. Objectives of the project were to innovate, more specifically to
a) promote village participation, empower villagers to decide priority uses of a grant and to
implement the works;
b) provide public infrastructure needed in poor villages;
c) create jobs paid in cash for unemployed/underemployed villagers especially in the seasons
of low agricultural activity;
d) increase transparency;
e) mobilize villager contributions;
f) support the Government decentralization agenda; and
g) reduce non-infrastructure impediments to trade and transport in rural areas.
4.     The planning aimed at project completion in two years. Bank management requested that three years be
allowed for implementation and that the project be considered a "pilot project".
5.     Components. A total of 1200 villages on Java were to be assisted. Each selected village was to receive
Rp120 million (then equivalent to about $54,000) towards public infrastructure of their choice . The loan categories
were kept to two, very simple: "goods, works and services under grants", in order to allow for villager choices, and
"consultant services" for management, implementation and monitoring of the village works, and for a study of
constraints to trade and transport (the Govemment funding the administration cost). Despite the programmatic nature
of the approach but because of its newness, Bank management asked that an amount be left 'inallocated".



Village Infrastructure Project                  - 2 -
6.     As the project objectives were met and the components completed in 2 years as planned, and at less than the
foreseen cost in dollars, it was agreed that the loan also finance:
a) a study to review the desirability of expanding the VIP approach to Sumatra, in preparation of a VIP2;
b)  a study on the effectiveness of altemative approaches to building rural roads, as it was found that access
roads were the top infrastructure choice of villagers;
c) data collection for one audit, as the project design required the documentation to be kept inthe villages
while for the first year, the national audit agency requested the documentation for the sample villages be
available in Jakarta;
d) a kecamatan (subdistrict) development pilot and completion of a Local Institutions Study in the third
year (FY97/98) allowed for project implementation.
7.     Covenants. The covenants related only to project implementation. Bappenas indicated that it could not
accept dated covenants relating to the removal of non-infrastructure constraints to trade and transport, as it could not
guarantee implementation and did not want to default on any covenant, but that it would try to act on
recommendations that arose from the study, and the draft action plan included in the appraisal report (Report No.
13776-IND, April 26, 1995).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Assessment
8.     The project has been highly satisfactory. More villages than planned were assisted (1230vs 1200). A total of
415 and 815 villages were assisted the first and second years (FY96 and FY97), compared to 400 and 800 planned.
The Bank chose to assist on Java, while OECF assisted villages off-Java where contractors had more of a role (due to
lower population densities and longer access roads needed, and thus insufficient labor for labor intensive techniques).
The first year villages were selected by Bappenas in order to facilitate an early start; for the second year the provinces
and districts made the selection from a long list of eligible (IDT) villages prepared in Bappenas. The village selection
was appropriate. All the villages were poor, needed infrastructure; and were eager about the project.
Assessment by Objective
9.     The project fully met its objectives. It has served as a demonstration project, and its decentralized
modalities have been adopted in several more projects (especially the new disbursement mechanism,
management by the villages, technical assistance directly to villages instead of to government agencies). It also
helped prepare two follow on projects. More specifically, by objective
a) Villagers participated and were empowered to decide priority uses of a grant. Village meetings were held
to select the public infrastructure to be built and to set the level of the incentive payment to workers. The Project
Manual provided examples of 5 types of public infrastructure (roads, bridges, drinking water, communal sanitation
units, piers); unfortunately most people understood this list to be restrictive. Nevertheless, villagers chose based on
their priorities; sometimes the village head had undue influence but his choice tended to reflect the consensus,
because the infrastructure needs had been felt for a long time and decisions on priorities were generally quite clear.
Mostly as was desired, the district or subdistrict officials did not influence choices.
b) Public infrastructure was provided in poor villages. In only 2 years, compared to the average Bank project
implementation period of 6-7 years, the project assisted the building of 3,680 km of rural roads, of 7,790 m of
bridges, 2,427 water systems, 1,230 communal sanitation units and piers totaling 61 m. Villagers had to agree to
undertake maintenance of the infrastructure with their own means (the Government cannot finance maintenance in
60,000 villages), and field engineers returned to the villages in subsequent years to assist with maintenance.
Maintenance however, needs further encouragement. Roads cost only $10-15,000 per kilometer. Villagers were able
to build bridges even 25 m long, for 4 wheel vehicles (and 100 m long suspension bridges) at some $800-$1,000 per
linear meter; a contractor-built bridge would have cost 2-3 times more.



- 3 -                 Implementation Completion Report
c) The project created jobs paid in cash. The project gave equal opportunity to women, men and youth;
local cultures resulted in women workers generally being a minority, though growing, and still sharing in the
benefits even if they did not work. The number of village workers totaled 314,924 men, 41,770 women, and
117,552 youth, who worked for a total 13.36 million days (unskilled), 1.1 million days (skilled) and 0.54 million days
(leaders). Workdays averaged 10,000-15,000 per village. More people sought work than could be hired so
generally a rotation system was used, often supplemented by a target system to facilitate correct payment per output.
The objective of doing most of the work off the agriculture season (mostly the dry season) was only partially met
partly because of the fiscal year cycle of budget approvals, but this did not dissuade participation. The incentive pay
was around Rp3,000-4,000 per work-day of 6 hours (equivalent to $1-1.50). Some of the work-days were not
"additional", as some villagers decided to stay in the village to do the works rather than to go for short-term jobs in
town, that while they paid more also entailed expenses and left neither a higher net pay nor the local infrastructure
benefits. The project also provided work for 83 field engineers the first year and 163 the second year, and for the
senior engineers supervising and managing the project. (details in Tables 5)
d) Transparency was achieved (and improved upon in the VIP2). Large sign boards were placed in front of
the village office, indicating inter alia a) the grant amount (a standard amount across villages rather than variable
amounts reflecting the cost of subprojects was intended to facilitate transparency, and it did); b) the daily incentive
pay, that villagers knew and was the same for men and women and tended to be lower than the prevailing minimum
wage; c) the cost of the subprojects; d) the payments allowed for administration in the village. Villagers had to sign
against their payments. The village kept books and documents to substantiate the expenditures.
e) The project mobilized villager contributions. Contributions were nrminly in the form of village land for
roads, but also in the form of work at less than the minimum wage, even communal work at no pay, in order to make
the grant pay for more materials and build more infrastructure. Contributions were not recorded systematically (as
they were not mandated), leading some outside reviewers to question their existence. Reviews indicate that
contributions were no less or even more than under community projects with mandated contributions (mandated
contributions generate the wish to avoid them, and it is easy to "manipulate" the numbers...).
f) The project supported the Government's decentralization agenda. The grants were disbursed directly to
the villagers from the local branch of the commercial bank selected (BRI), bypassing some lengthier and less
transparent bureaucratic processes. The project demonstrated that villagers could be entrusted with project definition
and implementation. Several similar projects have followed (see H. "Future Operations").
g) The project did not achieve reduction of non-infrastructure impediments to trade and transport in rural
areas during the project period. The related study was well done and identified many problems in rural areas (the
study was the first such study in Indonesia). While no follow up was made initially, the study has been widely read
and used, and has served as a basis for a number subsequent initiatives. In 1998 the central Government asked local
governments to eliminate a number of the identified locally imposed restrictions; compliance was being verified
starting in December 1998.
10.    The project achieved more than its objectives. The consultant field engineers gained valuable experience on
the job and had at least 2 training sessions per year, that enhanced their skills. Capacity was built up at Bappenas. For
the VIP2 and its extension into Sumatra, a field study/rapid appraisal of the feasibility of the VIP approach in
Sumatra was carried out; the study proved less satisfactory than desired but was still useful. A pilot was carried out
in 6 kecamatans (2 in each of the provinces of West Sumatra, Central Java, and East Timo&) for a Kecamatan
Development Project; the pilot expanded the VIP infrastructure menu to include economic activities and credit,
provided funds to targeted kecamatan rather than targeted villages, and added "facilitators" while reducing field
engineer assistance (reflecting the preferences of the anthropologist who became task manager of the project). The
pilot was fraught with difficulties, but served the purpose. The study of alternative methods for building access roads
did not provide new insights. The consultant inventoried works and their cost, condition and construction method but
did not analyze the data systematically.
1 West Sumatra, kabupaten Solok, kecamatans Lembah Bumanti and Lembang Jaya; Central Java, kabupaten Sukoharjo,
kecamatans Weru and Bulu; NTT, kabupaten Belu, kecamatans Malaka Timor and Lamaknen.



Village Infrastructure Project                   - 4 -
Economic Rate of Return
11.    The economic return from the infrastructure is satisfactory, of at least 20% overall, though variable
across villages. Rates of return were estimated from a sample of villages. The return on the infrastructure, mostly
from quantifiable transport cost savings as road building absorbed almost 80% of the grants, would be a
minimum 20%, even if the infrastructures were to last only 3 years while they are expected to last considerably
longer (bridges and water systems should last 20 years; the life of roads will depend on the maintenance effort).
Average transport cost reduction was 30% in the second year program villages upon completion of their
subprojects (by March 1997). Water subprojects had high returns; sanitation subprojects were the least beneficial.
In general, villager preference is first, to have access, meaning they will choose to build a road and bridge if one is
needed. After access is secured, the choice is drinking water. Only when this is also assured, do villagers choose to
build sanitation systems. Unquantified benefits accrued from the experiences of bookkeeping in the village, and
of the "transparency" under the project.
12.   A review in early 1998 of 172 project villages, revealed that in 1997, one or 2 years after subproject
completion, increased economic activity generated an average Rp30 million per village and savings in existing
activities amounted to some Rp2O million per village in 155 villages. In addition, the skills acquired under the
project enabled new activities of an average Rp20 million cost in 73 villages. Other benefits were increased
school attendance, the employment benefits, and electrification (made feasible after an access road was built).
Only 7 villages did not report any of these benefits. These impacts are detailed in Part III. The 2 basic benefits
alone imply a one year return of 38% on the village grant and the technical assistance cost, and a rate of return
much higher, though local contributions reduce returns on total costs.
13.    Benefits also accrued outside the villages. A majority of the field engineers are still working under VIP2
and will be able to continue this kind of activity on their own later on. Some Bappenas staff involved in VIP
subsequently became managers of other similar projects. A good data base was established in Bappenas,
identifying all villages by their national statistical code, that will allow review of impacts later (one is planned at
the end of VIP2) and coordination of assistance programs by location. And the demonstration effect was high; it
has resulted in several other projects adopting at least some VIP features.
14.   Infrastructure and economic activities were also achieved under the pilotkecamatan project. Funds were
allocated in similar proportions for infrastructure grants and for subloans. Economic activities generally have
much higher returns than infrastructure; however, they have fewer beneficiaries, at least initially. Revolving of
the subloans for economic activities is continuing.
Private sector participation
15.    Participation has been discussed above, as it was one of the project objectives. The partnership (public
grants, local management and work) proved positive; non project villages were inquiring when their turn was.
Environmental impact
16.    The environmental impact is generally neutral. The new roads allow motorized and increased traffic, and
this has some impact. Road widening was the more common and only involved cutting the border vegetation. The
larger impacts came from opening up new roads. Poor villages are often in mountainous areas; opening new 3-5
km access roads often involved moving large amounts of earth from deep cuts, and fill, and still roads are steep.
Care was taken to follow reasonable alignments and reduce the potential for landslides; occasionally, landslides
occurred and were repaired. Attention was also paid to including appropriate culverts for sustainable drainage
and avoid erosion of soft soil covers.
Project implementation
17.    Project implementation proceeded fast, as planned. It started with governmentprefinancing, ahead of loan
effectiveness (and also prefinancing of the advance to villages the second year). Villages were clustered in groups of
5 to enable their assigned field engineers to spend as little time as possible on the road. Every village completed its



- 5 -                 Implementation Completion Report
program within a year. Every province had a senior engineer. Only a thin consultant staff (3 senior professionals)
was located in the Jakarta Project Secretariat for general management. The Secretariat handled all the consultant
procurement, managed the performance indicators (MIS) that were updated monthly, and managed the independent
monitoring. The National Bureau of Statistics conducted a household expenditure survey in 120 project villages, with
the standard national questionnaire, that allows later comparisons. A non-profit organization did an independent
monitoring the second project year on a first year village sample; the effort proved difficult and yielded little extra
information, and was thus not repeated for the second year villages. The Borrower performance section expands on
the implementation topic. The kecamatan pilot was implemented the allowed third project year. There were problems
with contracting the NGO, the NGO experienced cash flow problems and delivered only partially. The Project
Manual for the pilot was revised even as the pilot was underway, and this created confusion and delays in the
kecamatans.
Project costs and contracts
18.    The original project cost was estimated at $83.8 million equivalent, and the actual was $75.2 million. The
cost was as estimated in rupiah, as all costs were in rupiah except for two contracts that included a small foreign
exchange part. The lower dollar costs arose from the devaluation of the rupiah (from 2,200 per dollar at appraisal to
5,000 in 1997) and late claims by MoF for reimbursement of the village grant advances or for payments to
consultants. The grants to villages, at Rpl20 million each for 1,230 villages, totaled Rpl47.6 billion or about $61
million. The 4 engineering contracts (#2, 3, 4, 6), covering the 2 years, cost the equivalent of $8.1 million, or some
14% of the cost of works being managed and supervised. Monitoring cost the equivalent of $365,276 (contracts #5,
7, 11). The study on constraints in rural areas cost $650,228 equivalent (contract #1). For cost details, see Table 4,
Consultant contracts, and Tables 8, Project Costs.
19.   The added components cost about $1 million equivalent. The road study cost $60,670 equivalent (contract
#13). Preparation of VIP2 on Sumatra cost $58,767. The pilot kecamatan project cost about $860,000 equivalent,
including the kecamatan allocations. The allocations to the 6 pilot kecamatan, at Rp400 million each, totaled Rp2,400
million or $570,000. A consultant firm was hired to manage and carry out the pilots, and prepare the follow on
project; the contract with the firm was equivalent to about $640,940 (total payments were $195,524 equivalent; the
consultant had claims outstanding; contract #15). Completion of a "Local Institutions Study" reviewing rural villages
was also financed (at an original cost equivalent to $157,762 and final cost $67,578 equivalent; contract #14). And,
the advisor originally hired for VIP was retained to advise start up of the KDP, at $26,672 equivalent (contract #16).
This was supplemented by a Japanese Grant of $250,000, that was fully disbursed.
20.   A total of 14 contracts were undertaken under the project (see Table 4). Most went smoothly and were
completed within the original cost. But, a) as the study to review the effectiveness of alternative road
construction approaches proved disappointing, the final payment was withheld. The firm proposed to undertake
further work to justify the final payment but this was not accepted by Bappenas and the Bank, that considered
that the consultant would not be able to deliver; and b) as the consultant firm undertaking the kecamatan pilot
experienced staff and funding difficulties, the contract was eventually suspended and some staff who had worked and
not been paid by the firm were paid as individuals under the Bank's consultant budget.
21.   The loan was $72.5 million, to finance 90% of village grants and 100% of consultant services. The
consultant payments totaled $9,637,440 equivalent (under the $11 million appraisal estimate). The contracts had
much smaller unused balances in their original currencies. Disbursements in 1998 were made at about 1/4 of the
appraisal exchange rate (the rupiah devalued to 8,000 per dollar). The final disbursement was February 22, 1999
for Rp3,933,356,237, or about $449,526, equivalent; $3,611,203 were recovered from the Special Account in
February 22, 1999. $43,947 were lost due to exchange rate fluctuations on disbursements related to the Special
Account. Bappenas did not have easy access to information on real loan balances. A total of $6,850,505 was
cancelled upon closing the Loan Account in March 1999.



Village Infrastructure Project                  - 6 -
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
22.   Factors generally subject to government control. The simplicity of the project and the commitment to it
by Bappenas, MoF and MoHA, and by the Bank, greatly facilitated its implementation which went smoothly.
Because of the time standard processes take, the Government prefinanced the start of project implementation the
first year (to enable works during the dry season) rather than delay it for another year awaiting loan effectiveness.
23.   Factors not generally subject to government control. The devaluation of the rupiah, though small in the
basic project period, resulted in the loan allocations exceeding those needed to achieve the original objectives.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.    The project modalities have been demonstrated to be sustainable. However, targeting villages was not
intended to continue, as with increased coverage targeting becomes less meaningful; it was the intention to assist
poor villages once, and then switch to "competition" for funds: this was started under the KDP in 1998.
Indonesian consultants have acquired skills and are able to continue similar activities. The pilot revolving funds
continue to operate, and they continue to be audited.
25.   The "sustainability" of the infrastructure built, and thus benefits derived from it, foremost depend on
maintenance. The technical quality of construction was generally adequate, but design standards were kept low in
order to keep costs low. Every year since the village built infrastructure under the project, a field engineer has
returned to assist with maintenance. During 1999, with funds from the VIP2 loan, repairs needed will be
inventoried and funds for materials and technical assistance will be provided to those villages where the problem
is due to faulty construction (that could be said depended at least partly on the field engineer) and not due to lack
of maintenance (that depends on the villagers); the villages will have to provide the labor to do the repairs.
26.    Roads (that took up some 80% of the village grants) were to be built to gravel surface only, while allowing
steep slopes to be surfaced with asphalt or concrete. Most road construction followed the rules, and roads can be
expected to last 5 to 10 years; their quality is as good as that achieved at higher cost under contracts by the
department of public works. But, often with support from the public works district office, many villages proceeded
to asphalt the roads at considerable cost; this makes the roads last longer prior to maintenance being first needed but
also makes it more difficult to do repairs once they are needed. Some steep road sections on the other hand were left
with gravel surface, and heavy rains take a heavy toll on unprotected slopes. Also, trucks heavier than the new roads
were built for, started to use them with damaging effect; not all villages installed portals to prevent heavy trucks using
the roads, particularly when they are wet. Villagers understand the importance of maintenance and prevention.
27.    Road bridges have been built to withstand truck weights, and should last for many years. In cases, the
wooden deck may need replacement of some planks in a few years. Another area of concern are foundations, how
well they were designed and are maintained to withstand erosion-often the bridges built under the project replace an
older bridge that had collapsed due to poorly protected piles and side walls. In fact, bridges built by the department of
public works should be inspected more regularly to avoid the recurrence of costly collapses, that could be prevented
at very little cost. Some bridges built under the project are suspension bridges for pedestrians or motorcycle traffic
only, and they should last for considerable time, also.
28.    Water systems normally have proven to meet real demand. They were provided at competitive cost. The
modalities for maintenance vary, but given user satisfaction it is likely that systems will be maintained. In some
coastal areas wells did not provide drinking water (due to saline intrusion) but nevertheless provided water for other
uses and were appreciated; a problem there is that the pumps tend to rust.
29.    Communal sanitation systems were not in much demand. Some of those built could have had a more
appropriate design had the main users been consulted about their preferences. Lack of familiarity with toilets and
little cleaning, meant that some toilets were not used for long. Public bathrooms including toilet, bathing and
washing places and being used by as many as twenty families, were built mostly were housing density is high and the
need was felt.



- 7 -                 Implementation Completion Report
30.    Only a few piers were built; most of the poor villages selected were in uphill areas. And very few "other
infrastructure" were built, mostly probably because the understanding of the field engineers, that could not be
straightened even in the first year of VIP2, that only the five types of infrastructure given in the example could be
approved.
31.    There is a trade-off between standards and quantity affordable: the project chose relatively low design
standards in order to facilitate labor intensive works, to make the funds reach further and thus to benefit more
villages, and to obtain the best possible economic return. Building public village infrastructure is a continuous
process; there is a recurrent upgrading as time passes, the old infrastructure deteriorates by use and even simply by
weather, and demand grows, that justify somewhat higher standards the next time around rather than only
maintenance.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
Identification
32.   When the Government launched its IDT program, the Bank was invited to participate. After various internal
discussions, the Bank felt that this program was too risky to support. A Bank identification mission addressed
Bappenas request and proposed to proceed with a complementary village infrastructure project. Many studies were
available on rural needs, among them the OECF study mentioned above, that were perused to identify what a project
could do and at what cost. It was also identified that the largest number of poor and most easily reachable at lowest
fiscal cost was on Java, and that some earlier programs had been successful in addressing village needs there (such as
a Yogyakarta Uplands project). A team consisting of a Bappenas staff and a Bank staff proceeded to visit rural
villages on Java to test the viability of leaving the decision making and implementation to villagers themselves, and
to review the banking support available in rural areas to channel funds directly to the villages. The reviews (that can
be called rapid appraisals) were positive, and the Bank management eventually approved the approach.
33.    The Bank obtained a PHRD grant (TF029182, signed July 31, 1995), foremost to assist the Government
monitor the IDT program. Bappenas executed this grant (which is the object of a separate completion report).
Preparation
34.   The Bank financed a consultant for 6 months, mainly to assist Bappenas with the identification of villages to
be assisted in a first year program, though he spent much of this time on more general matters. Another consultant,
with much experience in labor intensive works on Java and project management, was engaged shortly thereafter to
start preparing the Project Manual and detailed implementation modalities of the project. In parallel, the required
Bank documentation was written and the various steps accomplished in a short time. The preparation cost was
minimal as existing knowledge, both in Indonesia and in the Bank for other projects, was tapped. Simplified
procurement forms and systems, and compensation guidelines, were developed that could meet Bank standards while
being understandable to villagers. Throughout preparation there was a constant exchange of faxes between the Bank
and the Bappenas team working in Jakarta; responses were fast as was progress.
35.   The greatest debates on the project design in the Bank, were
a) A number of staff thought that giving money to villagers instead of channeling it through ministerial
agencies would result in loss of "control", and waste. But as the agriculture projects were implemented slowly and
reached only small numbers of people, management supported proceeding with the project innovations that provided
a potentially faster way to reach more people at lower unit costs and getting the beneficiaries involved-this was a
main reason to call the approach a "pilot".
b) Between the task manager, and some staff who had worked with the household expenditure survey and
considered misguided the proposed focus on Java on account of their estimated greater poverty incidences in the
outer islands. Sheer number of poor, population densities, economies of scale, lower prices, supervision possibilities
and probability of success being greater on Java prevailed in keeping the focus on Java.



Village Infrastructure Project                  - 8 -
c) Between the task manager and the lawyers who wished to have only "standard involuntary resettlement
and compensation guidelines". Eventually, simple guidelines including the possibility of voluntary contributions
(without compensation), were agreed--and used in several other projects.
Appraisal
36.    The appraisal took place 9 months after the first identification mission. It consisted of reviewing the
completed draft manual, agreeing with the selected bank on the mechanism to channel funds to villages, agreeing
on the list of villages, and seeing that the central and local agencies that needed to be involved were ready. Not
only were terms of reference ready but advance procurement was followed to ensure that the management team
and the engineers needed for the project could be in place quickly and trained even before loan effectiveness as
the government wished to proceed fast. Several ways of monitoring were also agreed on, given the "pilot" nature
of the project and the management request for quick feedback to enable taking corrective action quickly if one
was needed.
Supervision
37.   On average 3 missions per year were undertaken, and during each of them subteams formed to visit each of
the four provinces of Java. The teams visited project villages at random to discuss with villagers, see the works and
the appropriateness of the village selection, check the local bank accounts, discuss with local project managers, field
engineers and senior engineers, etc. To facilitate evaluation of progress across the various teams, standard supervision
questionnaires and reporting formats were developed and followed. There is thus a good supervision data base on the
project progress. Bank supervision missions proved effective for understanding what went right and what needed
adjustment. Essentially based on the supervision results, and knowing the Bank's lead times, the same project team
started preparing at the end of the first project year a Second Village Infrastructure Project in order to continue with a
3rd and 4th VIP years on Java, and extending the approach to Sumatra.
38.   Independent monitoring of villages proved more difficult. Several monitoring exercises were done:
a) an NGO was chosen following competitive bidding to review a sample of villages of year 1. Eventually,
an individual consultant was hired to assist the NGO improve its analysis and the presentation of results so they could
be more useful for others; but representing qualitative data as generic results was not easy; and
b) ad-hoc SUSENAS surveys were undertaken in project villages, that would facilitate comparison of trends
in them and in non-project villages. The SUSENAS survey did not demonstrate significant differences across project
villages and non-project villages, perhaps because it was too soon to show.
Supervising the independent monitoring took considerable time. It was decided that it was not worth replicating the
monitoring the second year (and currently, following the economic downturn, it would be difficult to see significant
project impacts from SUSENAS results).
39.   The loan agreement was amended twice. First the loan, denominated in a basket of currencies, was amended
the second project year for the balance to become a single currency loan (dollars). Second, the loan was amended to
permit the pilot kecamatan project, mainly to operate outside Java; other additions to the project could be
accommodated within the generic "consultant services". Disbursements were monitored throughout, some were also
audited by the Bank team. There is a problem with the Bank's disbursement data system: for contracts not
denominated in dollars, the system provides a loan disbursement dollar value based on the exchange rate of the day of
the enquiry-thus the real loan disbursement and balance in dollars cannot be known when the exchange rates
fluctuate. This system deficiency is serious with large exchange rate fluctuations, as was the case in Indonesia: it was
part of the reason for the large loan cancellation. The Loan Department has been urged to tackle this problem.
40.   The pilot KDP was almost cancelled, but eventually was continued. It required intense supervision.



- 9 -                 Implementation Completion Report
Overall
41.    The total Bank direct cost for the project is below average ($414,000: $111,800 for preparation, that focused
on project start up activities; $47,100 for appraisal to effectiveness; $240,000 for supervision, intense supervision
compensated by a short implementation period (essentially only a 2 year implementation period, compared to 6-7
years for most projects) followed by a third year mostly for preparation work for follow on projects. The completion
report bank direct cost is about $15,000. No grant funds were used.
42.   From  identification to completion, that took about 3.5 years, the project had the same task
manager/economist, the same engineer and continuity in other team members, in particular the anthropologist, who
assisted with field reviews (all the Bank managers working on Indonesia at the time of the project, are gone).
F. THE BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation and Implementation
44.   The Borrower showed great commitment to the project since its beginning. A full time, dedicated
Bappenas staff was assigned to the project, and quickly developed the Secretariat under which the project was
implemented. This person and the Bureau Chief stayed with the project from beginning to end and gave it all the
attention and support needed; they were prompt in communicating with the local level agencies involved, gave
latitude to their consultants in their tasks, and followed up on problems. Unfortunately, the Bappenas Deputy
who started the dialogue passed away early in the process, but his successor showed equal support. One high
level official in Public Works objected to Bappenas being the implementing agency, and the bypassing of the
district level public work agencies except for administrative approvals (indeed Bappenas, the planning agency,
normally does not implement projects, but in this case the involvement of multiple ministries, the new approach,
and the desired speed, to some extent justified Bappenas being the implementing agency). Pimpros, though
initially weary of a new modality, ultimately endorsed it; their operating budget was often late orunderfunded;
this shortcoming has been addressed under VIP2.
45.   The Secretariat provided a forum for representatives of other ministries to be involved and assist with
implementation. Representatives of the ministries involved (Bappenas, Public Works, Home Affairs, Finance)
assisted with the definition and improvement of the Project Manual and other materials, participated in field trips
to review progress, and eventually not only endorsed the approach but adopted it for other programs. The
Ministry of Finance prefinanced village grant advances before the loan became effective, to allow an earlier start
(see also para.49 below). Procurement was handled expeditiously. The Secretariat coordinated area coverage
with other projects (e.g. OECF's) and was prompt in requesting the follow on project.
46.   The implementing consultants performed at top rate. The advisor hired originally by the Bank to help
Bappenas with village identification helped achieve fast project preparation, continuous dialogue by fax with the
Bank task manager; he was retained by the Secretariat to continue assisting implementation, of the VIP mainly
with monitoring/procurement activities, and of the Japanese Grant obtained in parallel for poverty reduction
activities, with efforts to monitor the IDT program (and continued working for the KDP). The senior engineer,
hired during project preparation to draft the Project Manual and set the various processes in motion before
appraisal, formed a good team with the advisor, and remained in charge of the consultant
engineering/management team overseeing project implementation, the field engineers and the information
system. All project data is recorded in a computerized data base against the Central Statistical Bureau codes for
the project villages, and will allow future impact reviews; qualitative surveys were also made by field engineers.
The senior engineer/team leader also organized training for the engineers and field engineers, about 2 times per
year, a week each time; this training is a valuable project output in itself. The team leader performed at the
highest level till the project end (and is managing the VIP2).
47.   Independent audits proved difficult and did not add much. For the first year results, as the national audit
agency may not have recognized the difference in the project's procedures compared to standard ones for projects
implemented by contractors, it requested documentation in Jakarta that had then to be assembled from the



Village Infrastructure Project                   - 10 -
districts/villages. A consultant was hired by Bappenas to assemble the documentation, and paid under the loan-
subsequently the same audit agency indicated this was not needed. No consultant was hired for the second year
audit; however, this imposed a considerable burden on the Secretariat itself, as again, BPKP requested more
documents than the project design. Eventually, all the audits were "non-qualified" (and a different approach
followed for audits of VIP2). The regional audit agencies also audited the project, and some were reported to
have become a sort of "harassment" of villages.
48.    A disappointing aspect was the lack of action on removing the constraints to trade and transport in rural
areas, that could have had high pay off. An interministerial working level committee was established to review
the findings of the study and suggest ways of implementing them. The knowledge spread (or was confirmed).
However, as no clear action plan was forthcoming and meetings did not show progress, the matter was not
pursued. Subsequently, deregulation initiatives seem to be proceeding.
49.    The Government financed the advance (Rp2O million) to the villages both project years, even though this
amount was more than its 10% share. Subsequent disbursements for the villages were made at the ratio 90-10%,
on the assumption that the Government would seek reimbursement of the advance. However, it could practically
only do so when the full Rpl20 million had been spent and disbursements proven. MoF getting the SOEs for the
last payments to each village, when the villages no longer had to present papers to get further funds, proved quite
difficult and delayed MoF's reimbursement requests. The difficulty was taken into account for VIP2. There were
occasional delays in paying consultants.
50.    The Government requested the loan agreement be amended from a multiple currency to a single currency
denomination in dollars when it considered that this provided more certainty of funding availability. And also
acted promptly to request an amendment to permit the kecamatan pilot.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
51.    The project outcome is highly satisfactory. Much infrastructure has been built, underemployed villagers
have used their time productively and earned cash, the engineers gained experience. It is acknowleded that some
infrastructure has turned out substandard, but even a 5% failure rate can be considered highly satisfactory. The
field engineers have been coached and trained and will be able to perform better after the project; they have asked
for certificates stating their participation in the project, which is widely respected in rural areas. The approach
has been replicated, both in Indonesia and in some other countries. The Ministry of Public Works has accepted its
effectiveness despite early doubts; other sectors have also adopted some of its features. Several countries
(Guinea, Vietnam, Cambodia) sent teams to see first hand the project and assess the potential for village
implementation in their countries; the project manual and other documents have been translated into French. The
QAG team assessing the quality at entry of VIP2 largely based their views on the visible results of this VIP, and
found the approach to be bold and several aspects to deserve "best practice" classification2. The project was also
the subject of other reviews, namely a) an international rural water study undertaken by the Bank, that found that
not explicitly requesting villagers' contributions did not result in less contributions than when these are
demanded, and that cost tended to be lower under VIP 3 and b) an independent NGO study, that suggested more
2   The QAG report found strengths: a) ongoing learning by doing, b) village participation, c) well conceived project
design, d) strong government commitment, good leadership by individuals involved in designing and implementing the
project, excellent supervision and engineering support; and weaknesses in: a) targeting (it thought the poorest may not
have been reached), b) participation (in decision-making, as most subprojects were roads), c) replicability (it thought
the project enjoyed a level of support other projects would not have), d) occasional inadequate design and insufficient
reporting and follow up, e) concerns about sustainability and maintenance and about monitoring and evaluation. (Uma
Lele et al., QAG Review of East Asia Rural Poverty Reduction Projects, Annex 4, 1998, internal document).
3   Gillian Brown, consultant, Responding to Demand: Two Approaches from Indonesia, 1997, internal document, that
served as an input to the International Workshop on Rural Infrastructure, Washington, May 1997.



- 11 -                 Implementation Completion Report
NGO involvement, primarily, though it found the results to be satisfactory. More than the original activities
were undertaken.
52.    Some criticisms voiced have been a) that not enough village grass root participation took place in
planning, and by women: may be; but participation was higher than in other projects and as time passed, both
increased. The project approach was to provide "equal opportunity", not affirnative action that tends to preserve
stereotypes. Women's preferences had to be considered in designs of subprojects they would use most, such as
washing places/water outlets. b) the lack of required contributions; in fact many were made though not well
recorded and this has been remedied in VIP2. c) that incentive payments were not set at a level below the official
minimum wage; villagers were free to choose the level, and it is unfair to ask the very poor to work for less than
is considered necessary for daily needs. In fact the relatively better off agreed more to lower pay to make more
funds available for materials. d) that the standard grant amount did not match the cost of the village needs; this is
true, but the grant level was chosen such that meaningful works could be made with it, and a standard amount
greatly enhanced transparency. e) that other projects are unlikely to have the high level of commitment this
project had, are therefore less likely to succeed and put sustainability in doubt; the question would then be, why
proceed with projects that do not have a high commitment level?
53.   Independent monitoring of the activities was not very satisfactory. Part of the problem was the culture, an
environment in which few people reported bad news; the few bad news reported were seldom corrected but the
reporter could face official pressures. Also, monitoring capacity in Indonesia is scarce (though improving). Thus
independent monitorers of VIP had a difficult time.
R. FUTURE OPERATIONS
54.    The operation and maintenance of the infrastructure built is the responsibility of the villages, as the
government could not, and should not, finance maintenance in 60,000 villages. VIP2 is assisting in 1999 to do
construction repairs as may be needed, however.
55.    Operations based on the VIP are mentioned below; the three additional Bank projects involved the same
Bank staff:
a) the VIP2, that expanded the coverage to Sumatra; the VIP2 was prepared during the second year of VIP, in order
to avoid a hiatus in assisting villages at the completion of VIP, and it is starting a third program year, with a
much larger coverage than VIP (Loan 4100, US$140.1 million, effective in 1997).
b) the Kecamatan Development Project, that expands/adapts the VIP principles to selectkecamatans instead of
villages; to comprise economic activities in addition to infrastructure (the EDT grants having run their 3 years and
the rural credit markets still not working properly), and to provide "social" facilitation and less engineering
assistance. By government request the coverage was greatly expanded compared to plans (Loan 4330, US$225
million, effective mid-1998).
c) several Bank projects in other sectors (agriculture and education) have adopted the VIP modalities, in particular
the simple disbursement mechanism; OECF has since adopted a mix of the VIP and its own contractor-based
modalities; and the government has used it to some extent for its labor intensive programs in both rural and urban
areas to palliate the 1997-98 economic crisis.
d) an Urban Poverty Project has been negotiated that benefited from the VIP. The national audit agency participated
in its appraisal (the first time in Indonesia) to ensure their concerns were addressed, and that they understood the
project design.
4 Bina Swadaya, A World Bank Project Monitoring Participation, 1998, included in the Bank-NGO International
Conference on Upscaling and Mainstrearning Participation of Primary Stakeholders, Washington, November 1998.



Village Infrastructure Project                   - 12 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
56.   It was demonstrated that large scale projects can be used to address village level needs at considerable
speed, and that villagers are able to be "the subjects of development instead of the object of development" as one
Indonesian put it. Still, developing a maintenance culture is a long term proposition; the project has provided a
push to it. Continuity of the project team permits good communications and fast actions. A short implementation
period is better; it allows in depth supervision within standard costs. Commitment by government agencies to the
main thrust was essential. Frankness of the Government indicating that it would/could not act on a problem for
which a study or actions were recommended was appreciated, as it saved time, money and frustrating dialogue.
Bank management hands-off was most beneficial. The executing agency should have easier information on
actual loan balances, especially at later stages and when exchange rates fluctuate widely and impact on the dollar
equivalency of disbursements. The project team intends to write a publication for a wider audience upon
completion of the VIP2.
57.    The team has become wary of the usefulness of pilots. The KDP pilot implementation did not go as well
as desired; it took as much effort as a full project (it needed a manual, decrees, hiring of consultants, training,
loan amendment, etc.). The conclusion of the team is, that such pilots are hardly worthwhile.
58.   Independent monitoring cannot be relied upon to detect problems quickly for corrections on the way, at
least when local monitoring capacity is weak and foreign experts are costly, as in Indonesia. Lack of continuity
and perhaps understanding of local circumstances may mean that what foreign experts learn is mostly lost, at
least to the project. Constant supervision by project staff, government and Bank, who know what to look for and
are not afraid of admitting problems in order to address them, is more effective and provides valuable insights for
follow on activities. However, some independent monitoring (or supervision) is of course needed.
59.   Involving the audit agency during project preparation is useful, to avoid the agency later requiring
documents that are not foreseen in innovative project designs.
60.    Recommendations on the infrastructure per se include:
a) bridges built by the department of public works should be inspected more regularly at very little cost
to avoid the recurrence of costly collapses, that could be prevented;
b) sanitation system construction needs some parallel education to be fully effective, but such education is
costly. Thus the justification of sanitation systems for rural areas should be looked at carefully; and
c) faucets available for water systems are of poor quality; it may be better to do without them and use local
approaches.
61.   It is worth reviewing the methodology for using the SUSENAS data in the estimation of poverty incidences
in Indonesia.



- 13 -                   Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loan 3888-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: SUPPORTING TABLES AND ANNEX
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial         Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                   El                 l                E                  m
Sector policies                          F1                El                m                 E
Financial objectives                                       El                E                 El
Institutional development                 ml                                 El                El
Physical objectives                       [F                                 El                El
Poverty reduction                        IN                C                                     l E
Gender concerns                          El                E                 El
Other social objectives                    l               El                E l
Environmental objectives                  al               E                 E l
Public sector management                  ml                                 E                 El
Private sector development                                 El 0              0                 El
Economic benefits                        EN                 l                0                 El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely          Unlikely          Uncertain
1A               0                 1-E
C. Bank Performance                    Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                             El                El
Preparation assistance                                     El                El
Appraisal                                                  El                El
Supervision                                                El                El
D. Borrower Performance                Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                El                El
Implementation                                             El                Ela
Covenant compliance                                        El                El
Operation (if applicable)                 El               El                E
E. Assessment of outcome               Highly                                                 ighly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
mNE                                E                 El



Village Infrastructure Project                   - 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                           Purpose                       Year of      Status
l                                                    | ~~~~~~~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~approvall
Preceding Operations:
None
Following Operations:
Village Infrastructure  This is a targeted poverty reduction intervention project.    1996  Ongoing,
Project II              The main objective is to build small infrastructure in      Satisfactory
Loan 4100-IND, $140.lm   poor villages on Java and Sumatra. Other objectives are
to  increase  decentralization   and   community
participation, as under VIP.
Kecamatan Development  This is a targeted poverty reduction project and capacity    1998  Ongoing,
Project                building project. It expands the VIP into economic           Satisfactory
Loan 4330-E1D, $225.0m   activities and into allowing villages collectively in
selected subdistricts to choose what to do, with village
implementation.
Municipal Innovations  This is a leaming an innovation loan. It focuses on  1999    Starting
Project                capacity building, govemance, service delivery. Some
Loan 4440-IND, $5.Om    of the "municipalities" are substantially rural.
Urban Poverty Project  This project is also a targeted poverty reduction project,   Not yet   Board
Credit .. -IND, $100.Om    but in urban areas.  It follows the community            decision on
equivalent expected    participation approach and capacity building. A loan        IDA
was negotiated in October 1998, conversion into a           pending
credit, for which Indonesia is newly eligible, has
delayed processing.
Note: Several agricultural and education projects have also adopted VIP modalities, in particular the disbursement and
community implementation, some through amendments and some new ones.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned                      Date actual
Identification                              N/A                            02/15/94
Preparation                                 10//94                         10/01/94
Appraisal                                 01/05/95                         02/14/95
Negotiations                              04/20/95                         04/21/95
Board Presentation                        05/09/95                         05/23/95
Signing                                     06/95                          06/29/95
Effectiveness                               06/95                          08/25/95
First Loan Amendment5                                                      08/25/95
Second Loan amendment6                                                      12/2/97
Project Completion                        03/31/98                         03/31/98
Loan Closing                               9/30/98                          9/30/98
5   Loan Agreement was amended effective August 25, 1995, with US$25.4 mnillion disbursed under a currency pool, and
the remainder US$47.1 million converted into a in single currency, USD, loan.
6   To allow for the kecamatan development pilot.



- 15 -                    Implementation Completion Report
Table 4A: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY96              FY97              FY98                FY99
Appraisal estimate               30.00             65.00             70.00              72.50
Revised                          20.00             60.00             70.00              72.50
Actual "                         25.35             68.60             68.81              65.65
Actual as % of estimnate         85%              106%               98%                91%
Date of final disbursement                                                                  2/99
1 Including disbursements into the Special Account, the balance of which ($3.61 million) was refunded by the
closing date.
Table 4B: Consultant Contracts
Contract                Curr. Initial Value (w/o  Not Invoiced  Original US$    Total Paid  Total Paid,
taxes)                   equivalent  Original Currency    in US$
(at Rp2350)
1 Study of non-infrastructure constraints to trade   GBP  321,675      11,219     762,580        310,456       650,228
and transport                            Rp       545,210,000    67,043,535                478,166,465
2 Engineering services for West Java (Years 1 & 2) Rp    4,624,810,000    530   1,968,000    4,624,809,470    1,898,558
3 Engineering Services for Central Java and Yogya  Rp    6,520,745,450    34,599,130   2,937,273    6,486,146,320  2,673,240
4 Engineering services for East Java (Years 1 & 2)  Rp  5,414,690,727      37   2,439,050    5,414,690,690   2,219,018
5 Independent monitorng of year 1 results   Rp       576,287,500           ---    252,647     576,287,500      204,843
6 National management support               US$         322,260       108,913    322,260         213,347     1,333,824
Rp    3,090,830,000                 1,315,200    3,165,933,600
7 SUSENAS-VIP survey, of year 1             Rp       304,326,800          ---    132,201      304,326,800      131,877
8,9 # were not used (?).
10 Review of VIP approach applicability on Sumatra  Rp  137,574,000        ---     58,767     137,574,000       58,767
11 Individual TA to assist independent monitoring    US$  27,500         8,250     38,068          19,250       28,556
| ___________________________________ _ |Rp        22,409,040                               22,409,040
12 Data collection for audit                 Rp      227,730,000                   96,989     227,730,000       94,711
13 Review of rural road construction methods  US$         54,815        16,445     87,479          38,370       60,671
Rp       76,694,400    23,008,320                 53,686,080
14 Local Institution Study (completion)      Rp      385,730,000                  157,762     385,730,000       67,578
15 Services Kecamatan Development Project pilot  US$     109,680        36,351    640,943          73,329      195,524
Rp     1,298,938,000   252,938,350              1,045,999,650
16 Individual TA for KDP preparation        US$           26,672                   26,672          20,000       20,000
Totals                                   US$          540,927      169,959                     364,296     9,637,440
_  GBP       321,675        11,219                    310,456
Rp   23,688,400,317   400,598,222              22,923,733,9111
Total in                                 US$                       384,417  11,209,219               1    9,637,440
Grants for Works
Grants to villages (1,230 x Rp.120 m)         Rp 147,600,000,000
Grants to kecamatan (added) (6 x Rp.400 m)    Rp 2,400,000,000
Total                                         Rp 150,000,000,000 = US$ 68.2 m at Rp2,200: US$62.2 million actual
Disbursements at 90%                          $55,968,108



Village Infrastructure Project                       - 16 -
Table 5A: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation"
Key Implementation             Estimated                          Actual
Indicators in SAR          IHighly Satisfactory
I. Villagers empowered to decide what to    1200 poor    1230 poor villages.
build                                  villages.
II. infrastructure built by the above villages  n.a.  Details by year (Table 5B) and by kabupaten and province
(Table 5C)
a) roads                                            3,680 km
b) bridges                                          7,791 m
c) water systems                                    2,427 units
d) communal Sanitation units                        1,230 units
e) piers                                            2 totaling 61 meters
ILA. Jobs created                     n.a.          (# of workers)
a) men                                              314,924
b) women                                            41,770
c) youth                                            117,552
d) field engineers                                  83 (first year); 163 (second year)
IIIB. Jobs created                    n.a.          (# person-days)
a) unskilled                                        13.36 million
b) skilled                                          1.10 million
c) leaders                                          0.54 million
d) field engineers                                  246 field engineer years
IV. Mobilized private contributions    n.a.         -land and workdays (but totals are not available)
V. Supported decentralization                       -transferred resources directly to villagers;
-strengthened village institutions; demonstrated the viability
of village communities being in charge for their own
development;
-prompted VIP2 and parallel government funded program;
and
-the pilot (enabled with fund savings) for Kecaratan
Development Fund concept to follow the VIPs on a regular
basis and no longer targeting the villages.
Table 5B: Summary of Infrastructure Results 1995/96-1996/971
Year      Measures        Roads           Bridges       Water supply   Sanitary units        Piers
1995/96   #villages        399              201             115              70               1
Results        1349 km          3295 m         1,023 units      546 units         15 m
Average        3305 m           16.5 m         7.2 units        7.8 units         15 m
1996/97   #villages        802              396             243              201              1
Results        2337 km          4496m          1404 units       684 units         46m
l______  AveTage          2913 m            11.4             5.8             3.4             46m
This excluded the added kecamatan pilot: some 60 villages in 6 kecamatans were assisted.



VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FINAL REPORT 1995/1996
No. ____    yjaIAomishments  ___Mandays Targt and RealizationWokFrePoes 
Kabupaten     of   Ras  Bridges  Jetties  Water Sanitary - Mandays Taro at    I Mandas Realized                         JPson,,          oo    ____    _
Vill.  (molar)  (Motor) (reter)  (unf!0  (unit)  Ordinary  Skilled Leaders Ordinary Skilled Leaders  Men   Women  Youth  P____   Phys.1 Fin. Mdys.
PANDEGAG         3     960       29        0       241    31  151.039   6.828 -3.32    4.0         .2    5.437   4.726   ~930   2.607   3.844 100,0 100.0  98.9
LEBAK           -45  1785         688       0      53       40  491.056  30.873  11.204  481.517  27.343  13.978  11.270     146  -4.064   7.602 1 00.0 _100,0  98,1 
SUKABUMI           5   14.54       35 ___0          3       14   38.332  12.284   2.381   29.890 28.298   2.408     449  a__8  _  272         271 100.0 100.0 i114.0 r.
CIAWUR            10   25.793      88       0       12      38   97.973   4.472  5.188   95.6863  4.603  5.352   4.739        85   1.808a  3.783 100.0 100,0  98.11
GARtf10   29.410                  114       0       0 _     0  130.064   4.595   1.648  255.534  2.309   2.17    3.498   1.195       598     683, 100.0 100.0 19
IND~RAMAYU     _  5   11.845      10    -15     120 _    22   23.364   2.224  -1.182   22.333   1.972   1.135   2.292 ___0           7671  2.314 100.0 1000 O95
SERANG       ~~~~15   53.708 ___51     0    -67 ___21   70.793   7.994   1.480   76.343  8.914  -1.687   5.877 __  0   1.971   4.443. 100.0 100,0O 108:3
BAWARNE~GARA    20   82,370       164       0      73 ___34 -312.311  26.868  14.440  312.311  2M.8W  14.440   7.682         827   1.773  5.834 100.0100100,
KEBUMEN           30  105.811     294       0       2      126  361.295  48.69 95931254.769              19.529   6.183    .41     1.825   3.7833 100,0 100,0 1010.0 
PURWJORE,JO       20   86.573     117       0     200      92  287.963  183.5211  3.966  287.953  18.521   3.966   3.802   2.839   1.430   3.470 100.0 100.0 1 00, 0 
WONOSOBO          1 0   27.805 _     64     0      24.__  3   97.782   4.033  5.1I13   97.782   4.033  5.113   1.984_         72   1.105   1.703  0.  100.0 100,0 .
GROBOGAN          15~ 6-2.016     215 __  0         31__  4  215.2991  8.559  7.221  215.299   8.559  7.221   3.1121  1.018 _  712   2.589 1 100100,   0.0 r'
REME3ANG           5 2.1   _   31          0o      21      1 5   51.598   5.694    868i  51.596  5.694    88_   588  __  0 _  383,    207 100.0 100,0 100,0 0r
PAT]              10  4180         6   __0         10 ___0   77.871   2,014   4.155   77.871   2.014  4.155   1.849         755  6_ 82   1.498 100,0 1000 1000-
BATANG            35  122.358     217       0     191      28  425.683  42.039 22.418  425.683  42.039 22.418   6.313        214   1.972   5.168 1000 1000 10=00
GUNUNOKIDUL  __30   91.451          0       0     131       0  394,917  25.780 23.026  424.730  28.437 20.368  14.811       318   6.674  12.298 1000 j,09,0 106,7 0'
PROBOUJNGGO       10   32.600      60       0       0       5   93.984  17.477  6.255   93.984  117.4771 6.255      526       1 4    346 _   535 100.0 100,0 100.0 
PASURUAN        _ 15   4.858      109       0    -5         0  13732  34.65    98712241  32.785 10.140   2.072i               68   1.032   1.933 100.01 100.0  98,61
NGiANJUJK         10  38i.555  __ 34        0       1 8    a5   87.693  14.264  5.308   78.408  10.763   2.709      5051       2     164 -   260 100.0 1000  85,5 
BOJONEGORO   __20   59.799        100       0 __ 1 ___0  351.63a  13.619    355  338.007  11.319    343   8.281                06.05 5103 100,0  98,   957 
BANGKALAN      __30   94,578       31       0       5        9  396.004   7.479  12.716  396.006   7.479 12.718   5.679      18S4   149 2.403 100,0 100,0 100,0 
SAMPANG        __25   58.352      500       0       59       3  353,989  38.281 29.317  350.799 37.395 28.992   4.574         44   1,41 257   96a 8              9
SUMENEP        __10   33.650        0l      01 I_            0. 134.283  44.829   1.407  136.024i 45.405, 1.519   1.271      180     214     984 1IWO 100:0 101:3
TOTAL   -415 1.349.872   3.2951      15 1023          4481721 419.541 192.347 41.928.758452812981201 1.5    4447.6   99.   999   02.i 
(b



VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FINAL RePORT FY 1996/1997
No. ____Infrastructure Constructed  ____Mandays Target and Realization                                 Work Force                Progress
Kabupaten     of   Roads  B3ridges  Jetties  Water Santy       Mandas Target          Man asRealized                 (Por__                             _
____VIII.  (meter)  (meotor  (meter  (unit)  (urit)  Ordinary ISkilled Leaders Ordinr  Skilled ILeader   Man  Women IYouth-  Poor  Phys. Fin. Md s.  ..
Pandegiang  ~30   62.034     go       0      13       5  128.714   1.049    150  128.714  1.049    150  13.981       51   3.741   6.328 100,01 100,01 100.0
Lebak             40   8668      15        0 __ 7          8  304.871  33.951  6.001  304.871 33.951  6.001   4.600      67   1.981   3.772 J00,0 1L00.-0 100,0   -
Bo12E~            10   241        61       0 __ 1          5  213.673   3.604  6.843  213.673  3.804  8.843   3.850     110   1.653   3.865 100,0 100.0 100,0   -
Sukabuml          10  38.950      68       0  __ 0        14  85.019   2.368  6.965   86.019  2.366  6.965   2.959      874   1.197   2.049 100,0 100.0 100.0 
aaniw       ~~~~20 -il48.65    199 ___0      38       4  158.056  10.153  8.159  158.056 10.153  6,159   4.494        0   1.371   3.303 1o.  o.  o.
Bandun~~~~   5 ~11.600      37 ___0          01    14  40.562   1.236  2.109, 40.582   1.238  2.109    9101   150          3,571 46  100.0 100.0 100.0
Garut             10   46.577     94 ___0          01__  0  141.6571  6.688  5.441  141.657  8.6688  5.441   2.9541    59   1.631   1.8861 100.0 100.0 100.0
Tasikmaay         10  27.700      88 ___0 __ 01__  0  152.0741  2.127  3.450  152.074  2.1271 3.450   5.6521    92              898   1.181 100.01 100.0 100.0
Ciamis             5,  18.450      0 ___0 __ 01__  5   30.2951   316  1.188   30.295    3161 1.168   1.0361   214               493     537 100.0 100.0 100,01
Kunngn             5   16.580,    14       0 __ 41__  8   21.0421  3.225  1.392, 21.042  3.2251 1.392            951      5 -    35      80 100.0 100.0 100,0
Cirebon            5   10.955      4 ___0         231    24   28.254   4.615  1.050   28.254  4.615  1.050   1.890        0     567   1.123 100,0 100.0 100.0
Malaingka         5   15.029      15 ___0          2       1   32.044   1.007      0   32.044  1.007      0     478       0     250     290 1 000 100,0 100.0
Sumedang           5   11.825     12       0      1~T2 _    4   30.490   5.356    209   30.490  5.356    209    611       0     546     558 100.0 10. 100,0,- oO
Indramnayu     __5   16.195    110         0      15 ___0   11.788   2.129    396   11.768  2.129    396    887          Ss     250     663 100,0 100.0 100.0
Suba!g             5     671      41       0      10      30    8.438   2.728      0    8.438  2.728      0     690       0     509     660 100,0 100.0 100,0
Puxwakarta        5   14.8SW      62       0      15Is _  7   23.114   2.540       0- 23.114  2.540    -0   1.387         0.   770   1.2 27 100.0 100.0 100.0
Karawang          5   10.121      44       0      17 ___8   21.4461  1.223    948   21.446  1.223    948    342           4     243    345 100,0 100,0 10000
Serang       30   67.232   77         0      Ill1    11149.4731  1.819    820  149.473  1.819    820   2.439        27   1.168   1.738 100.0   100.0100
Cilaca           10  22.374    106         0 ___4 ____1  72.828  17.259  4.190   69.043 15.952  4.115   1.447           251     207     990 100,01 100.0  94.51
Ba umas   ___ ~5  21.747     53       0       0 ___0   32.532   3.323  2.323   32.471  3.323  2.323   1.8477        93     818   1.580 100,0 100,0 -9-9.810
PwbaIiigg~,  ___5   18.670   35 ___0          8      12  32.824   3.582  2.642   32.824  3.582  2.650   2.671      158     732   2.671 100,0 100.0 100.0
Ban*anegara       201 58.522    2401       0       8 I__ 5  155.871  t12.335  6.7851 155.551 12.335i 6,585   5.289i   544   2.177   4.020 100.0 100,0  99,7
Kobumen        _  10  36.163    126        0       0      32   73.904   4.396  3.766   73.901  4.398  3.766   2.2501  1.237     954   1.907 100.0 .100.0 100.0
PLirwaro     ~~20   66.637    145     0      34 ___8  237.439  26.AW  14.528  225.539 26.100 14.339   4.438   2.197   1.215   5.6715 100.0 100.0  95,5
Wonosobo       __10  26.773       54 ___0         47      18  108.622  10.228  5.533  108.622 10.228  5.533   3.088     446     8221  2.428 100.0_100.01 100,0
Magga tlj,,       15  54.270      40 ___0         77      15  1142.829  12.526 12.811  142.831 12.476 12.611   5.255    834   2.727   5.836 100.0 1600.0 100.0
Bwoyil         _ 20  60.361    152 ___0           52      47  147.815  18.879 10.845  146.594 18.379 10.829   6,409   1.425   1.387   5.651 10.0100.0    99.0
Klaten         __10  40.248        0 ___0        146 ___0  105.228  12.347  4.128  105.228 12.347  4.128   3.751        295   1.117   3.027 100,0 100.0 100,0
Sukohario      __ 101 45.342      99 ___0          2 ___1  63.126   1.953  2.7591 62.126  1.8431 2.812   2.758   1.018    529   2.390 100 10098,4
Wonogrlr      _ 10  44.587       39 ___0 __ 9 ___0  123.974,  3.945  5.932  123.973  3.941  5.892   2.354              133     356   2.347 100.0 100.0 100,0
Karanganyr     __ 10  28.440      GO  a__         31      16  67.744   9.885  3.626  -67.854  9.885  3.626   3.885   1.392   1.349   3.429 1000 1 00.0  99,9
Sragen         __10  38.088       66 ___0         55 ___5   98.606   7.076  3.889   88.359  8.738  3.45    7.038   3.182   1.520   4.1781 100.0 100.0  91 6
(~~obogan  __ 15  51.648    220 ____ 0       19       8  105.188  10.902  6.428  105.168  10.822  8.148   3.877    652 1220.9359  3.351168  100,0  100.01100.5
Bloare_ 15  5680                 104 __ 0         45     36   91.296   9.057  5.167   91.295  9.057  5.167   3.436     627   1.252   1.170 100.0 1 00.0 1 00,0
Rembang        _ 10, 38.7481    381        0      54      11  73.387   2.003  1.845   73.366  2.003  1.845   2.1971    96   1.242   1.330 100.0 100.0 100,0
Put           _ 101 47.0351    32               2       13  85.136   4.798  3.440   65.136  4.798  3.440   3.185   1.698   1.751   3.507 100.0 100.0 100.0
Jepara       ~~~51  18.7001    451    0 __01          4   48.760   1.680  2.123   48.760  1.8816  2.123   108      212r   458      944 100.10 100.0 100,0
Oemak        I101 31.0721    51           0     15       15 8.4   10.225  5.096  59.298 10.225  5.096   1.12            251   158   1.142, 100,010.  9,
Semarang    5   11.~~809I    791    0      351    33 3.7         6.784  1.743   27.599  4.252  1.590    871      74      36      58   0.  1008.



VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT FINAL REPORT FY 1996/1997
No.     lnkastucturo Constucted___               Makndas Targe and Realization                    Wotk Force                 Progress
Kabupaten    of   Roads  Bridges Jetties  Water Sanitary      Manday& Tar let    I MAndayRgaIIzed                    (Pros                 - 
___________VIII.        (mtf  (motor)    (unit)~5  I (Jh   OrdinvI Skilled Leaders Ordlniv Skilled Leader   Men  Women  Youth   Poor  Phys. Fin.I Mdys.
1emngung          10  22.518       0      0     100      25  185.513  20.879  7.284  162.455 20.644  6.354   2.265      668     738   1.963 100.0 100.0  97.8
Kendal           10   21.587      68      0     129      18   78.6a0   % 275  3.453   71.168 1 1.930  3.187   1.712     154     680   1.359 1100.0 100,0  91,4
Batang      I10  23.210      22       0      27      1 8  109.829   8.533  4.841  1018.986  7.855  4.623   1.766   501      474   1.972 100.0 100,0  98.6
Pekaongan         10  23.231      43      0       18     33   87.195   5.111  4.423   84.499  4.830  4.184   2.130      388     459   1.471 100.0 100,0  96,7
PomWang      10   23.337-    66       0      45_  41   86.898  10.185  9.344   92.352  10.892  8.437   2.544   1.321        867   1.940 100.0 1100,0 104,9
Tagal       ~10   3108       61       0 __ 2          3  175.177   8.107  3.9451 175.177  8.107  3.945   2.341     8341   735   2.178 100.0 100.0 100.0
Brebes            15  40.258      841     0 ___ 1    13  110.383   6,271  4.350  110.38   6.271  4.350   8.521          9821  2.230   6.546 100.0 100.0 1100.0
KulonProgo  ___5   16.8W0__ 26        0 _ _01        0  109.503   3.307  4.216  121.188  4.320  6.433   1.418      5701   727   1.677 100.0 100.0 112,7
BantuL            5   14.810      35      0      131__  2   63.538   1.326  3.397   83.538  1.326  3.397   1.539         97     741   1.631 100.0 100,0 100,0
Guinungkidul    __51 34.080        5      0       0 ___0  151.638   3.079  3.665  151.636  3.079  3.685   1.943         988   1.138   2.859 100.0 100,0 100.0
Sleman         __5   10.162       23      0      76      33   61.530   8.270  2.745   61.530  8.270  2.745   1.293      598     747   1.400 100.0 100.0 100.0
Pacitan          10   31.600__ 26         0       0       0  139.358  44.471  5.204  134.988 46.329  5.072  14.742      766   6.891  11.384 100.0 100,0  08.6
Ponoroao    _15   48.750      25       0       6      0  238.152i  7.286 106629837.304 10.607   2.511               228     592   2.492 100,0 100.0 100.7
Rtrn%qatek     __5   11.576       12 __   0       1 ll --0  146.2101 13.772  4.6,42  146.210 13.773  4.642   2.690.    50 1,,..299   2.458 100,01 100.0 100,0
Tulungagung       10  29.052      60      0       5       0  128.686  18.412  8.382  319.648 17.354  8.393   3.674   1.6    1.068   4.860 100,0 1100.0 225,0
Blitar   _____    10  22.075  34      0       2       3  135.633   6.875  6,004  143.179 12.258  9.687   2.441     479   1.236   1.871 1100,0 100,0 111,2
Kedid                  12375      36  0--         05      0   7389 8.690  4,177711    .9 .77                    776  _ 0        213     776 100,0 10.  100,0
1-I0  29i.9-07   19       0       3i      7 2781    2,657         0  127,511  2.657 _     0   3,628      8   1.414    709 100,0 100,0 100,0
-  10 271.4060          0 _    0           0    2.5    5.772  2.205  97.638  8.739- -3.205  1I.882 -__0  1.640   1091-00,0 10-0,0 1 05.~7
Jember           56  13.134       29      0       0       6   85,353   2.028     48   85.353  2.028      48   1.587      55   1,146   1,531 100,0 100,0 100.n
~Uwaft~l     5~ 12.200       0       al      a       4   62.576  15.336  4.320   62.576 15.338  4.320     859     100     426a    842 100.0i 1000 100.1
Sondowoso        10o   774         5      0J -    9      1-i2  127.223   913    855 1-16.23-  9.413    855   2.209        0   1.202   1,392 100,0 100,0f92.6
Sltubondo         5   14.835      12      0J      1 __ 7   57.658   4.803  3,499   63.449  4,304  3.280         887 _     0     33Y     847 100,0 100.J 107.7
Procllng         is  35.060      F3       0  5__ 110             .927217.590  174.829  524  7.590   4861 5              28     .20 3,783 10,010.09
Pasuruan      _10  25.2-00        58      0       06 -    8  110-.-523   7.104  7,4   1183    .537480 -.857              86    834 - 1,282 100,0  00, 0 10l,ri
Mqj~~~~to  ___ 5   15.000  0  0    0       0 ~~~~~~~ 72.822    300  3.334   72.822      300  3.334  __ 30  10   13      30 1000 100,0 100.0
.Jomba          _ 5   14.630  a__8         0  __          0   52.714   8.450  4.355   52.714  8.450  4.355      836      38      4      789 100,0- 100,0 100,0o
Nanjuk          10 2.8            9      0       3__         42.520  8-.415  5.858  142.520  8.415  5.8,58   1,14       25     64      991 100,0100 100,0
Mad5un         ___    22.700   -5         0       2 __ 6   60.248   3.932  2.893   60.248  3.932  2.893   1.185         225    808   1.245 100,0 100,0 100,
Maget~i______  5    9.273    63       0       0            8,810   8.819    163 5-'7.634  8.f5-29    17-9    5658    1l23  109     40-2 100,0 100,0  88,2'
INgawj           10   27,21016s           0       4       1  148.783 -10.105  4.263  148.544 -10.08   4.2478   2  .946  337     957   1.741 100,0 100,0  99,8    '
qoionagoro       20   49.287    2251__  0         0       4  250.711   9.009  2.255  250.711  9.009  2.248   4.595 r-0   1.367   3.7   0,   0.   0,
Tuban       ~~~~15  44.364   761      0       2       019752.7   80519752.7   6.065   2.686                        589   1.054   2.128 100.0 100.0 1!00,0    (
Lamongan    ~~10   23.693    _15      0      1        5   74.327  16.361  5.455   74.327 18.381  5.455   1.537     183     603   1.177 100.0 100.0 100.0
Gkeslk            5   13.880      0 __ 0          0l      0   44.615       0      0   44.815      0      0   1.777       so   1.545   1.505 100.0 -100,0 1000~
Bangkatan        I5   3.12       54       0       0       0  188.049   6.701. 10.703. 187.669. 8.690 10.884   1.862     50      397   1.724 100.0100  99.8
Sampang      10  25.386      18a     4        4 __ 2  110.110  16.7251 8.9901 110.724 16.843  6.438   1.123         17    809      694 100.0 100.0 1000 o
Pamulkasan       10  24.285       41      0       0       0  100.314  10.189  7.2511 100.314 10.1891 17.51   1.179      218,   47       9010.100  oo
%TAL er        5   62.0396     30496    0                  3.263.171.8339.298 35.017  1560 390                       6461  1.9301259  0,  100.0  Lm90. 
TOTAL   815 .338.595   4.d96  46   1.404    6~84 8.267.597 673.78I34.329 .42&315 4178.057 347.7621 212.8431 3 ,6201 1Ai1001 188.5351 ..1.  10 .0 111 6



Village Infrastructure Project                      - 20 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Summary of Surveys of Local Government Support
Aspect Rated                Rating            Number of Respondents            Percent
Supporter                          583                      91.52
Support of VIP           Neutral                             31                       4.87
l__________________  Does not Support                         23                       3.61
Assumption about success  VIP will succeed                   557                      89.55
Neutral                             52                       8.36
VIP will not succeed                13                       2.09
Participate                        488                      78.84
Leadership Style         Neutral                             96                       15.51
Decides himself                     35                       5.65
Source: A survey undertaken in 1997.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                    Purpose as defined at      Status            Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined      _                _
1. Review of non-        Identify potential cost    Completed         Good, after project
infrastructure constrains to  reduction measures                      implementation priod
trade and transport in rural
areas
2. Monitoring of the VIP    Evaluate VIP impact     Completed         Will allow longitudinal analyses
Data Processing and                                                   later
Analysis
3. Project Manual         General implementation    Initial draft
guidelines                completed within
six weeks
4. Review of Altemative    Approaches to Building   Completed         Negligible
Road Construction         Low Traffic Road Study
Methods
5. VIP on Sumatra        To prepare VIP2            Completed         Used for VIP2
6. Kecamatan             Pilot subproject in 6      Completed         Basis for a follow on project
Development Pilot         Kecamatans to serve as an                   started in FY98
input for proposed KDP
7. Local Institutional   Input for KDP              Id                Id
Study



- 21 -                   Implementation Completion Report
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$M)
.    l___________ Appraisal Estimate           |       Actual
Local         Foreign           Total             Total
Goods, Works and Services             59.0            6.5             65.5              62.19
TA Implementation Support             10.0            1.0             11.0               9.63
Increased Administration               3.3             -               3.3               3.30
Subtotal                           72.3            7.5             79.8              75.12
Contingencies (exchange rate loss)     3.8            0.2              4.0               0.04
Total Project Costs                 76.1            7.7            83.8               75.16
Table 8B: Project Costs (Rp billion)
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
Local         Foreign  0       Total    J         Total
Goods, Works and Services             129.6           14.4           144.0              150.0
TA hnplementation Support             22.0            2.2             24.2               27.5
hicreased Administration               7.2             -              7.2                7.2
Subtotal                          158.8           16.6            175.4              184.7
Contingencies (exchange rate loss)     8.4            0.4             8.8                0.2
Total Project Costs                167.2           17.0            184.2              184.9
Table 8C: Project Financing (US$M)
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
Local    !   Foreign           Total              Total
GOI                               11.3           -               11.3                    9.51
Bank                              64.8           7.7             72.5                   65.65k
Total Project Costs       76.1           7.7             83.8                   75.16
$6.85 million were cancelled.



Village Infrastructure Project                                - 22 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan/Section  ! Covenant   Present   Original    Revised
{type          Status     fulfillment  fulfilime
date         nt           Description of covenant                Comments
l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~Datel
Sch. 5, Part A,   10          C           12/31/95                  Borrower to select Project villages not   Complied
Para. 1(a)                                                          later than 12/31/95 for the 2nd and 3rd   with.
Project years. Bupatis and Camats to
l  |                       provide public information for
_______________  __________  ._________   j  ____________  ________ subprojects  to   villages.
Sch 5, Part A,   10           C                                     Selection and information of           Complied
Para. 2(a)                                                          subprojects to be carried out in       with.
accordance with criteria listed in
l__________               subparas. (i) - (iv).
Sch. 5, Part A,   10          C                                     Field engineers shall complete         Complied
Para. 2(b)                                                          technical reviews of subprojercts prior   with.
to approval or replacement by an
altemative subproject, in accordance
with guidelines (i) - (viii).
Sch. 5, Part A,   9                                                 Quarterly progress reports and an      Complied
Para. 4                                                             annual report by March 31, of each     with.
Project year
Sch. 5, Part A,   9           C           01/01/96                  Prepare and furnish to the Bank a      Complied
Para. 5(b)                                                          report integrating the results of its  with.
l__________                                         monitoring and evaluation activities.
Sch. 5, part A,   9, 10        C          02/01/96                  Review monitoring and evaluation        Complied
para. 5 (c)                                                         report with the Bank and take          with.
measures to ensure efficient
completion of the project.
Sch. 5, Part A,   1, 9         C          10/30/96      02/18/97    Carry out annual technical audits and    Complied
Para. 6                                                             furnish them to the Bank.              with late due
to work
overload.
} Sch. 5, Part B  5. 6       I C                                    Project agencies and institutions       Complied
responsible for Project implementation   with.
adequately staffed and Project Manual
made available and updated as
necessary in consultation with the
Bank.
Sch. 5, Part C   7            C                                     Compensation for affected persons to    Complied
be avoided or minimized, and where     with.
not possible, ensure that they are
compensated in accordance with the
compensation Guidelines agreed
-between GOI and the Bank.
Compliance                                                           Covenant type
C = CovenaTnt complied with  I = Account/Audits                     8 = Indigenous people
CD = Complied with after delay    2 = Financial performance/revenue  9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
CP = Complied with partially   generation from beneficiaries         10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
NC = Not complied with         3 = Flow and utilization of project  11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
funds                                 allocation
4 = Counterpart funding               12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional
5 = Management aspects of project or     action
executing agency                  13 = other
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement



- 23 -                   Implementation Completion Report
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title               Description and comment on lack of compliance     l
|No significant lack of compliance with applicable Operation Manual Statements OD or OP/BP
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                                    Actual
Weeks                |          US$ '000l
Pre-appraisal                                    30.5                               111.8
Appraisal                                         11.0                              41.5
Appraisal-Effectiveness                           3.0                                5.6
Supervision                                      51.5                              240.1l
Completion                                        3.0                              15.0 
Total                                            99.0                               414.0
1' Including travel expenses.
' FY      '000$
95      12.1
96     74.9
97     105.5
98     37.6
99      10.0
240.1
3  08       3.9
to 2/99     5.8
9.7



Village Infrastructure Project                      - 24 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/       No.     SW    Specialty  Performance             Types of problems
project       Year7       of       In                  ratings
cycle                 persons  field                 IS  DO
Preparation    03/15.94       1      NA    E       _                                                   1
mission
10/14/94      2      NA    E                                                            l
Appraisal      01/20/95       3      NA    E, HE, A
through board
approval
Board through   06/20/95      2        0.40 E
effectiveness
Supervision I   09/29/95      3        4.50 E, A, HE    HS     HS    Strengthening of engineering team
through hiring another EMC senior
engineer per province & defining
responsibilities for dealing with
problems. Addressing the desire for
road asphalting by villagers; updating
the draft manual by end of Nov. 1995;
and increased transparency to allow
villagers to know the flows of
expenditures.
Supervision II-  02/09/96     3        6.30 E, A, HE    HS     HS    Main concems: quality of civil works,
mid-term                                                              in particular roads; Admin. LKMD
withdrew standard monthly
installments from BRI; in one village,
increased benefits could have been
achieved with a subproject type not
specified in the Manual (a flood gate);
VIP related operational budgets were
made available late, and not clearly
allocated to the agencies involved.
Supervision    07/20/96      3         2.40 E, A, HE    HS     HS    In few kabupatens Pimpro's formal
III                                                                   appointment had not been completed;
delays in release of the advance to
some villages; some concern about the
quality of the civil works.
Supervision IV  11/15/96     3         9.50 E, A,      HS      HS    The project is ahead of schedule,
ENV                      except for a slightly delayed audit by
BPKP. Issues: a) quality of road
works a problem in some villages,
improvement is not easy as often soil
conditions are the cause; b) the
foreseen balance of $3 million may be
used for TA start-up under VIP II if
agreed.
E = Principal Economist/Task   ENV = Senior Environmental Specialist  EG = Engineer
Manager
HE = Senior Highway Engineer   A = Senior Anthropologist     IS = Institutions expert
SW- Staff weeks               DO - Development objectives    IS - Implementation progress
7   The mission end date.



- 25 -                     Implementation Completion Report
Stage of      Month/    No.         SW     Specialty   Performance |           T7ypes of problems
Project        years       of       In                    ratings
Cycle                  persons   field                  IS   DO
Supervision V     03/20/9       5        2.0  E, A, EG,   HS       HS    None. All works were completed,
7                           IS                          within original cost estimates and
ahead of schedule. A balance of over
$3 million of "unallocated" funds is to
be used for pTeparation of follow-on
pilot Kecamatan project and a related
study.
Supervision VI 1'  10/97        2       20    E.A.         S*       S*    KDP pilot: problems of definition,
with consultants; good progress with
local institutions study.
Supervision VII   01/20/9       3        7.0  E, A, EG    HS       HS    None. The original project was
8                                                       completed ahead of schedule. The
added pilot and study are under
implementation.
Supervision VIII  3/98          1         1    E           HS      HS    MoF overdue in withdrawing from
1/                                                                         SA. Project villages to be revisited;
KDP experiencing implementation
difficulties; local inst. study draft
interim reports available
(VIP2 proceeding)
Supervision IX    8/98          1         1    E           S*      S*      Funds were invested, but the poorer
were bypassed.
Supervision X     9/98          1         1                HS      HS    Start of ICR
Supervision XI    2/99          1         1    E           HS       HS    Final discussion of ICR with GOI
1/    Some 5 field visits for the pilot and the local institutions study were undertaken by team members and independent parties residing in Jakarta
(sucb as GTZ, anthropologist).
*     Rating applies to pilot only.
8   The mission end date.



Village Infrastructure Project                 - 26 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Sample Economic Returns to Village Infrastructure
Roads and bridges. About 76% of the village grant amounts was used for road upgrading or
construction, and 11% for new bridges. The road lengths improved varied generally from some 1.5 km to 5 km,
but occasionally were longer. With 87% allocated to road upgrading, this annex peruses the transportation
benefits mentioned in a sample of village completion/benefit reports.
A majority of the road upgrading projects allowed motorized vehicles to replace porters. Transport cost
savings per ton range from Rp.35,000 to Rp.150,000, between 20% and 75% ofthepreproject/porter cost. Some
projects allowed the use of larger vehicles, for instance trucks instead of cars, and others improved the road
surfaces; these projects had some 20% cost savings--less than Rp.5,000 per ton, i.e. much lower in absolute unit
terms compared to the reductions noted above, but probably such roads had larger traffic volumes (see overleaf).
Still, some others and especially bridge projects allowed access to new markets, changing routes altogether, with
higher benefits. Benefits from personal transport have not been reported, but these are significant as well, as
minibus service substitutes motorcycle "taxis" or even overnight stays outside the village, at a fraction of the
cost, for access to schools, markets, health centers etc.
The larger the population in the village, and thus the village production and personal transport, the larger
the benefits of the road improvement. The products commonly exported are rice, coconuts, coffee, fruits, fish;
the transport cost reduction increases farmn gate prices considerably. However, all transport volumes are not
known to us. A simulation, assuming a $1 per day income, that just IO% is spent on transport without the project
and that the above noted saving rates apply with the project, and assuming that the road will last some 6 years and
including in the initial cost the engineering overheads, provides rates of return up to 200%, with a sample median
of about 50% ERR (see overleaf). For road works to have a minimum 10% rate of return, the threshold traffic is
only some 700 trips per year of a 7-ton truck or equivalent (some 5000 tons, or 10,000 tons both ways) during 5
years, assuming an average saving of Rp.7,000 per ton. Alternatively, the road cost recovery may be achieved in
less than 3 years; just one 7-ton truck replacing porters with an average savings of Rp.100,000 per ton, and
making 250 trips per year, would in only one year ensure cost recovery; or, if just five 7-ton trucks or equivalent
could use an improved road with an average saving of Rp.5,000 per ton, and also made 250 trips per year each,
cost recovery would take 3 years. Future road maintenance will be essential for the roads to last, and villagers
have agreed to undertake the maintenance; but even if roads were to last less, the investment would still be
justified. Unemployed porters are reported to find alternative jobs without much difficulty. To be conservative,
only a 20% ERR is reported in the main text, but there is no doubt that the upgrading of village roads has
favorable returns compared to higher standard and higher traffic roads.
Drinking water and sanitation. Drinking water and sanitation were allocated only 13% of the village
grant amounts. From VIP supervision missions it is known that water supply improvements also have rates of
return exceeding 20%, even when water is purchased in bulk from a water enterprise. When needed, water user
groups are formed to ensure payments or monitor water use; field engineers have to ensure a group is formed for
subsequent maintenance of the facilities. Women are the main beneficiaries from water supply installations.
Benefits from sanitation facilities are less clear, partly because villagers may require further awareness campaigns
and training in maintenance of the installations, but this will be addressed under the project.



- 27 -                      Implementation Completion Report
ATTACHMENT 2
Average No. of Beneficiaries for VIP 96/97
Total per Kabupaten in the Project Provinces
Activities            West Java    Central Java    Yogyakarta              East Java        Total
No. of Villages Reported           210              305                20               265           800
Total No of villages               210              310                20               275           815
No. of Roads                       241              474                30               432           1,177
Average No. of                    2,366             1,641             1,224            1,761          1,823
Beneficiaries/Kabupaten
No. of Bridges                     105              227                11               98            441
Average No. of                     1,718            1,277              963             1,701          1.468
BeneficiarieslKabupaten                                                                                        I
No. of Jetties                                      .-                                   I              1
Average No. of                                       -                  -              2,980         2,980
Beneficiaries/Kabupaten
No. of Water Supply                 49               151                5               27            232
Average No. of                     678              643                734              927           685
Beneficiaries/Kabupaten
No. of Sanitation                   53              III                 6               27             197
Average No. of                     407              257                283              550           338
Beneficiaries/Kabupaten
Location of Beneficiaries
Outside                         149,134          140,437            1,604           180,667        471,842
In Village                      458,675          649,440            42,904          539,175       1,690,194
Total                            607,809          789,877            44,508          719,842       2,162,036
Source: Based on a survey of second year villages.
Reduction in Transport Prices
to5
U                             -0 1-12-03-4                          15        16       17      18
ma ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~PretRduto  nFi



Village Infrastructure Project                 - 28 -
PART HI
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Completion Report
Village Infrastructure Project on Java
Introduction
Rudimentary infrastructure at the village level, roads, bridges, water supply, jetties, and sanitary facilities
is often lacking on Java, home to over 60% of the population of Indonesia and among the most densely populated
places in the world. The Central Bureau of Statistics in 1993 identified over 6,000 villages on Java that had been
"left behind" by development, using a definition that was based in part on deficiencies of basic infrastructure
because such deficiencies are a clear cause of poverty. With poor access to markets, for example, crops might rot
in the fields because they could not be transported cheaply or quickly. Poor roads often limited not only the
possible profit from crops but the choice of crops to grow. The lack of roads and bridges also limited access to
health facilities found usually at the subdistrict and district levels, which might take hours to reach even when
they are only a few kilometers away. The level of health in many villages is also low due to lack of reliable water
supplies and unsanitary disposal of waste, causing economic loss as well as suffering. It is often the task of
already overworked women to fetch water for family needs, sometimes making several long and tiring trips each
day. This waste of human resources could be prevented by providing water nearer to homes.
Most of the inhabitants of Java live in rural areas, as farmers or farm laborers working small plots of land
in some 18,000 villages, growing rice, corn, cassava, and a large variety of other crops in conditions that are
usually quite favorable to agriculture. Many "left behind" villages, though, are in areas that are much less
productive, especially in, the uplands and some coastal areas.
Infrastructure in the villages had been addressed by a scattering of government programs but even more
commonly by self-help activities of the village communities, who were quite familiar with organizing themselves
to meet limited village needs, such as road cleaning or building mosques. Constructing high quality infrastructure
was always considered to be beyond their means, as it would mean sacrificing their time to spend months
laboring on construction as well as purchasing construction materials that cannot be found in the village. The
villages had very limited funds to spend, and most farmers could not afford to abandon their daily search for
income.
In the past, the government's approach to the identification and construction of infrastructure was very
top-down through either sectoral programs or block grants of the Inpres program, implemented through
provincial or district levels of govemment. The works were carried out normally via contractors, selected
through the normal bureaucratic bidding procedures. In several ways this situation was unsatisfactory:
The provision of infrastructure in the villages was often ignored or given a low priority, as
typical methods of project selection favor higher level roads in the network or large water supply
systems.
The system did not target the poor areas that required infrastructure, because the selection criteria
favor more rapidly developing areas.
The use of contractors tended to lead to low quality works since many contractors were more
concerned with profit than quality, and top-down decision making did not give the communities a
sense of ownership, which in turn caused problems in maintenance.
This system did not lead to improvements in the communities' capability of developing itself,
since the village tended to wait for further top-down solutions to its remaining needs.



- 29 -                 Implementation Completion Report
The gap between developed areas and left-behind areas continued to expand, compounding
existing problems of migration to the cities, a decrease in the quality of life in the villages, and
social unrest from the growing disparity in quality of life between urban and rural areas.
The Inpres Desa Tertinggal program was created to improve the conditions in the poorest villages in
Indonesia. Under this program, several community groups in each poor villages were given approximately
$30,000 per village over three years as capital for group economic activities. The groups of poor persons
determined for themselves the activities they will invest the money in, and the funds in turn were revolved to
other groups.
Lack of infrastructure was seen as one major constraint to developing these poor villages. Indeed, in
some of the villages the investment of money in economic activities cannot succeed because of the restraints
caused by poor infrastructure. Therefore, the government decided that additional grants should be allocated to
these villages to provide infrastructure. The Village Infrastructure Project was a result of this decision. It was
designed in late 1994 and implementation began in April 1995.
Project Design and Implementation
The Village Infrastructure Project took an innovative approach to solving the problem of inadequate
infrastructure in the villages. Many of the standard regulations for project implementation were waived in order
to make the activities attainable by villagers, following principles of simplification and practicality. Both the
World Bank and the Project Secretariat actively shielded the project from pressures to conform to established
practices that would interfere with VIP implementation.
The key aspects of the Village Infrastructure Project included:
1.    Village selection was made by district governments from long lists based on Central Bureau of
Statistics surveys using criteria developed jointly.
2.     Selection of infrastructure was the responsibility of the villages.
3.     Villages were assisted in the design and calculations by consultant engineers recruited from the
private sector, one field engineer for every five villages.
4.     The basis for construction was a very simple grant agreement signed by the village and the
representative from district Public Works.
5.     A fixed amount of funding was channeled directly to each village (Rp 120 million, or about
$50,000) using a simple and responsive funding process.
6.     The villages alone were responsible for funds, assisted by the field engineer.
7.     Senior local Engineering Management Consultants provided advice and guidance to the more
junior Field Engineers, and as they were from another firm they also provided a degree of
objective monitoring.
8.     Construction was done by villagers themselves for an incentive wage, using local materials
wherever possible so that more money stayed in the village.
9.    Information boards were located in strategic places so that anyone in the village had access to
key data, with community-wide meetings to decide salient issues.



Village Infrastructure Project                 - 30 -
Project Results and Impact
The government gained valuable experience in bottom-up processes and in simplified delivery of
infrastructure. This experience led to changes in the design of existing and proposed village development
activities. The World Bank provided a second loan to expand the VIP to the island of Sumatra in 1997/1998 and
1998/1999, with a target of 2600 villages in two years. In addition, in 1997/1998 the government funded 2000
additional villages from its own funds using the same methodology.
Database of Subproject Information
A database of subproject information was collected during the two years of implementation, based on
subproject designs and budgets. Data for the 1996/1997 subprojects were collected from 731 of the 815 villages.
In each village there was an average of 2.8 subprojects reported. Some interesting conclusions include:
*     26.4% of the reported budget was used for labor payments, with a higher portion of the budget
going to materials (68.3%). The portion of the budget going to materials often included the
procurement of materials labor intensively by the villagers, for which workers were paid based
on the daily wage.
Roads were the most labor intensive subproject type.
Database of Prior Conditions
Simple data were recorded by the field engineers early in the construction season about conditions in 770
of the 815 villages (94.5%) active in the second year. The most interesting conclusions were as follows:
*     Nearly all VIP roads were all-weather roads. Of almost 1100 roads reported, only 10 did not
function immediately. Most roads were built over existing earth roads, but a significant
proportion (32.4%) were built over inadequate existing hard-surfaced roads. The largest number
of roads connected to an asphalt-surfaced road (42.1%) or to a good rock-surfaced road (16.3%).
Nearly all bridges were steel girder, concrete, or wood-beamed bridges. The largest number of
bridges connected hamlets (dusun) within the village (53.9%), but a significant number
connected two villages (34.4%). Most of the bridges replaced existing bridges (74.1%), but these
were most often damaged or constructed simply of bamboo or wood.
Nearly all water supply projects were used as a source for drinking, washing, and bathing. In
fewer than 10% of the water supply sites had the water been checked at a lab by the time of
filling out the questionnaire. The most common source of water before the project was from
local wells that were limited in supply. The largest number of water supply projects drew their
water from springs (55.9%), followed by ground water (31.5%). Only 5.5% used surface water
sources.
Some 79.6% of sanitary facilities used septic tanks with leaching fields. Most water for the
latrines came from wells (55.0%), and most of the remainder came from springs (38.9%). The
majority of people had used the river or fields (57.9%) prior to building latrines. The remainder
used inadequate or insufficient latrines.
Less than 20% of the Operations and Maintenance groups for water supply or sanitation projects
had been formed at the time of filling out the questionnaires.



- 31 -                    Implementation Completion Report
Community Participation
To demonstrate the level of participation in decision making, consultant field engineers reported about
Participation of the LKMD in Preparations
Percentage of Villages Where LKMD was Highly Involved
1 00
80
60
40
20
09                             e ,~''   '5'
Preparatory Activities
the level of participation in project preparations. The resulting graph is shown above .There was usually a
sharing of tasks between the field engineers and the villages, but for a number of activities the engineer did nearly
all the work: calculating budgets, technical drawings, verification. For other tasks, the community performed the
tasks without almost no assistance from the engineer: labor recruitmnent, proposing infrastructure, identifying
sources of materials, solving land acquisition issues.
Participation during construction can be seen in the following table:
95/96                       96/97
Category of Worker
Persons        %            Persons          %
Men                        102,081     90.96            212,843      87.07
Women                        10,150       9.04            31,620       12.93
Youth                       34,444      30.69            83,108       34.00
Poor                        73,265     65.28            168,535      68.94
All Workers                   112,231    100.00            244,463      100.00
Workers/Viliage                    270                          300
Person Days                    5,543,888                    9,452,164
Person Days/Worker                   49.40                        38.67



Village Infrastructure Project                    - 32 -
There was a higher proportion of women, youth, and the poor implementing the project in 1996/1997
compared to 1995/1996. At the same time, there was a reduction in the average number of days worked by each
of the workers, only part of which was explained by the increased participation of women, who typically worked
for shorter periods. The key change was in number of person-days of labor per village, which fell from 13,360 to
11,600.
Changes in Commodity Transport Prices
Changing transport prices was one of the earliest occurring indicators of benefits from an improved road.
The prices paid by farners for transporting their commodities to market was monitored by the field engineers. At
the start of construction a point was selected near the end of the proposed road, and the engineer asked farmers in
the vicinity about the types of commodities sold, their destination, the transport method, and the unit price for
transporting them by available means. This investigation was repeated immediately at the end of construction.
The hypothesis was that transport prices would be lower after construction, because of increased access by
vehicles and lower operating costs.
Data were received from 752 of the 815 villages (92%). In 64 of the villages a comparison could not be
made because of incorrect data collection, or because the before and after data could not be compared (different
and unconvertible units of measure or different destinations recorded for products), or because there was no road
constructed (13 villages). The graph below shows the results for the 688 villages from which valid data were
received:
Reduction in Commodity Transport Prices
VIP 1996/1997
Number of Villages
120
100                    l                   __I
80      li        I____
40      i                                        _l
0  cz  90 .90 o50   w0  90 9     s
I- Ci    NI %O lp  9       tp' 4. q40 4)\O     l
eo  No~  go                     43E    o   oq
Percent Reduction
The majority of villages reported a reduction in transport prices of at least 20%. The average percentage
reduction was 30,3%. Only three villages reported an increase in transport prices after construction. About 13%
reported no change in transport prices.
Impact Data
Impact data were collected in February 1998, targeting all clusters constructed during the village
infrastructure project, but only 172 clusters were visited. This represented 69.9% of the 246 clusters in the
Village Infrastructure Project (59% of the first year villages and 75% of the second year villages).



- 33 -                 Implementation Completion Report
Impact data were collected by the field engineer in four categories:
Increases in usage or economic activities due to the construction of the subproject. This included
increased transportation, more production because of easier selling, new products, and the like.
Savings due to the subproject, such as reduced outlays for water, reduced transport costs, or
reduced cost of inputs. These were quantified using coarse estimates that reflected the true
benefit according to the enumerator.
Instances of applying skills learned in the VIP to other activities, such as undertaking additional
infrastructure construction or applying skills on another project or private undertaking.
Other impacts that could be attributed to the project, most of which could not be easily
quantified.
The results of the data collection and preliminary analysis were as follows:
*      155 of the 172 villages in the sample reported increased economic activity (90.1%), and on the
average they generated a reported 30,928,306 rupiah each. This average was distorted by some
very large numbers: more than 10 villages reported more than 100,000,000 rupiah in increased
activities. The median increase was slightly less than 10,000,000rupiah. The table on the next
page shows the distribution of the increases.
Also in 155 of the 172 villages were there reported savings. Savings on the average were slightly
less (Rp 20,195,923) than the increase in activities, because there were fewer extremely large
values in the list. The median, however, was higher at Rp 13,005,000.
Only 7 of the 172 villages did not report either of the two quantifiable impact measures above. A
summary of these two measures can also be seen in the table on the next page.
73 of the 172 villages (42.4%) reported applying their new skills on another activity, with 81
projects cited by the enumerators. The average value of all the projects cited was slightly more
than Rp 20 million. The list shows both public and private activities undertaken.
Perhaps the most interesting data were found in the miscellaneous types of benefits that were
reported on the data collection form. On the second page following is a summary of the kinds of
benefits attributed to the project.
The most common benefit was in the ability of a portion of the community to send their children
to a specific school or level of schooling, which previously had been beyond their means,
probably because of inadequate transport. In 101 villages there was a quantified increase in
numbers of students, showing on the average more than a 109% increase in attendance, with 66
of the villages (65.3%) showing more than a 100% increase. This does not include another 16
villages where school going was reported as easier after the project, but without an increase
reported in attendance.
The second most common benefit was electrification, as 41.9% of the villages reported receiving
electricity since the project was completed. Access to the villages normally is a prerequisite for
public electrification, as power lines and poles have to be transported into the village.
Health benefits were cited in many villages, and four main kinds of health benefits were cited:
O      Improved water supply
E      Improved sanitation
El    New health facilities or services



Village Infrastructure Project                   - 34 -
O      Better access to health care because of improved transportation
Improved transport was often cited as a benefit, as was increased motorcycle ownership.
There were changes mentioned in the way that village products were marketed. Some farmers
preferred to bring their own produce to market (now easier to do) while others preferred to be
able to have buyers come into the village.
Another item cited often was the improved availability of building materials in the village, which
led to improved housing.
Among the items cited by just a single enumerator were two cases of negative influences of the
project: bad elements coming into the village and an increase in disturbances.
Follow-up
The villages have primary responsibility for maintenance of the completed infrastructure. They received
training in how to determine what needs to be done and in how to do it. They were required to devise a
maintenance plan, which should include aspects of raising funds that are required to purchase materials for
repairs. It is the normal practice in many Indonesian villages to undertake repairs throughgotong royong (self-
help) sessions, wherein the community as a whole joins to clean out ditches, repairs damaged surfaces, and the
like.
An impact analysis will be conducted to determine the quality of the infrastructure after several years
have elapsed, to what extent the subprojects are beneficial, and to what level they are maintained.
It will be attempted to compare the development of villages that received assistance with similar villages
that did not receive assistance with infrastructure, even though it will be difficult to isolate the effects of this one
project from all the other programs that have occurred over the intervening years.
Evaluation of the Performance of the Borrower
At the beginning of the project, many observers both within the government and outside of it doubted the
ability of the government to implement this kind of project, one that intentionally limits the government's role
and opportunities for intervention. There were also doubts about the ability of villagers to implement the project
and the ability of the government to recruit so many dedicated engineers from the private sector.
The cooperation among the central government agencies was outstanding, as they presented a unified and
consistent position that this project and its approach must be implemented and it must succeed. Temporarily the
agencies could put aside their sectoral egos for a common goal. The central government also approved a series of
simplifications to standard project rules that greatly assisted the VIP in working in the village, such as paying the
grants directly to the village, freeing the project from difficult procurement and contracting rules and local
regulations, freeing the project from tax considerations, and freeing the project from revenue stamps.
The central government and particularly the project secretariat were also very responsive in dealing with
problems that occurred and were brought to its attention. This can be noted by observing the differences between
implementation in the first year and the second year. Written project guidelines also changed a great deal.
The success at the local level was not uniform. While the majority of kabupaten offices gave their
support to the project and to its unusual mechanisms, there were a few other kabupatens that resisted the new
approach and attempted to intervene for other purposes. In these districts progress was slower and less in line
with VIP principles, although they too had to bend to the project regulations. Provincial offices varied as well,
although rarely by actively opposing the project principles - more by being somewhat unexcited and slow to
react when help was requested.



- 35 -                 Implementation Completion Report
Lessons Learned
While the Village Infrastructure Project was not a pilot project per se, it shared with pilot projects the
goal of trying innovative approaches that might be applicable to other projects. In this regard the project was
highly successful and taught many interesting and applicable lessons. Some of the most applicable are given
below:
1.     Villages and their organizations were capable of undertaking the construction of infrastructure in
their villages, managing the works and administration. Works were performed labor intensively
with equipment usage normally limited to compaction of the road surface by heavy roller. All
1230 villages completed their subprojects. Thousands of kilometers of roads, hundreds of
bridges, and thousands of small water supply and sanitation projects were constructed, at an
average cost much lower than if contracted in the usual way.
2.     Written guidelines were very important in ensuring the adherence to project procedures and
standards. Technical standards were very flexible, more for guidance than for standardizing.
3.     Technical assistance was necessary to balance the relationship between the village and the
project manager from the bureaucracy. It was possible to employ a large number of private sector
engineering consultants to support the VIP (163 field engineers), and their role was the most
important on the project. The field engineers worked hard in difficult conditions, sometimes
with less support than they would have liked, and the large majority exceeded all but the most
optimistic expectations. The transfer of technical and management skills to the village was very
important.
4.     Except in those few areas where water supply had been a perennial problem, villages responded
to the opportunity to build infrastructure of their choosing by choosing foremost to build roads
and bridges to improve access. Although the project used an open menu for economic
infrastructure, the majority of villages, officials, and consultants considered the menu limited to
roads, bridges, water supply, sanitation, and jetties.
5.     Transparency was the key to village implementation. Large information boards and community-
wide meetings were the main ways to promote it. Lack of transparency contributed to several
cases of malfeasance, top-down planning, difficulties in attracting labor, and asset acquisition
problems.
6.     More attention to the quality of works should have been made from the very beginning, since
long term benefits are absent if the infrastructure lasts only a year or two. The project developed
a thirteen point quality program after the first year and the quality level improved, but even then
quality of works was frequently an issue.
7.     The VIP with its innovative funding mechanism suffered very little leakage of funds, with most
of that leakage the product of village chief domination or unscrupulous local officials. Very few
consultant engineers were implicated in malfeasance cases, and these were dealt with quickly by
the Secretariat by enforcing a strict Code of Ethics.
8.     The use of a standard grant amount (Rpl20 million) was very helpful, particularly in the
beginning, as it promoted transparency and simplified administration, particularly funding flow
from the government to the village. While it was obvious that villages needs were not uniform
and that this amount could not solve most villages' needs for improved infrastructure, the grant
was sufficiently large to enable the construction of useful infrastructure within the given time
frame of one dry season.
9.     The project emphasized its ability to learn by doing, and to achieve this the engineers were given
considerable time to discuss problems and recommendations, including an orientation workshop



Village Infrastructure Project               - 36 -
and an evaluation workshop each year, as well as structured meetings once or twice a month.
These opportunities, plus the support given to communications in the budgets and the willingness
of the Secretariat to alter its procedures and guidelines, led to the feeling of joint ownership of
the project between the government and the private sector engineers. It also led to the continual
improvement in guidelines and instructions.
10.   Maintenance was a weak point of the project.  While training was given to villages in
maintaining their infrastructure, inertia and the lack of outside funding often led to inadequate
maintenance. Over half of the first year's roads exhibited maintenance deficiencies after one
year. Consultants were sent back to previous year's sites to promote better maintenance, but lack
of funding for materials and equipment took its toll.
11.   It proved difficult to get local government or consultant engineers to report on problems.
Government officials were reluctant to reflect badly on their districts, but the engineers reasons
were more complex. In part they felt that problems should be solvable without involving higher
levels, and local problems need not be reported. They, too, were reluctant to report problems that
might reflect badly on themselves or their company. But in many instances the problem was that
the engineer did not recognize the problem as a problem, necessitating frequent visits by more
senior engineers.
12.   The project engaged an NGO to conduct independent monitoring of the VIP during the two years
of implementation. Only one recommendation of the NGO was implemented, to have the
engineers monitor community participation more closely. All other recommendations and
conclusions were either obvious or inappropriate. The project could have benefited from outside
monitoring, but it did not.
13.   It has been concluded by some that the project methods are not sustainable because they required
intensive or even heroic support from the government, the donor, and the consultants. A
condemnation of others cannot be considered a weakness in the VIP.
Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank
The World Bank supplied consistent support for the project, urging the VIP Secretariat and consultants to
increase their efforts to ensure that the project was successful and innovative. The World Bank officials worked
closely with the members of the Secretariat and the consultants to improve project mechanisms. On many things
the World Bank task manager and the Secretariat were able to achieve results much more quickly than had been
the norm with other projects. The World Bank was also extraordinarily quick in issuing approvals required for
quick implementation.
Supervision missions, although sometimes painful, provided critical feedback. They were painful
because they pointed out where things were not going according to plan. One such piece of feedback was
directed at the quality of implementation. It resulted in a plan to improve subproject quality in the field, but it
was still painful to hear.
One area where there might be some improvement would be with the relationship to the Resident Staff in
Indonesia. As the task manager was based in Washington, the project on occasion had no permanent and well
informed senior local official involved.  Consequently there was some occasional confusion, wherein
contradictory statements would be made. It should be noted as well that more visits to the field were made by
senior Washington staff than by senior RSI staff on their own.
Comments on the World Bank Implementation Completion Report
The World Bank Implementation Completion Report is quite clear and contains nothing that is surprising
as these are issues that have been frequently discussed with the project secretariat. We would, however, make a
few clarifications, as follows:



- 37 -                Implementation Completion Report
1. [Paragraph 3] The mobilization of village contributions is something that was never emphasized in the project.
Asset acquisition on Java was rarely an issue, as the communities are familiar with community participation in
the form of labor or contributed land. It therefore was never stressed, although contributions occurred normally.
In the Second VIP it was attempted to quantify contributions to be able to answer criticisms that the communities
are getting something for nothing and therefore will not value it.
2. [Paragraph 6] We found most of the studies connected with the VIP to have little benefit to the project. The
study of conditions in Sumatra was of very limited usefulness; much more was learned by sending people
familiar with the VIP for just a few days to potential sites. The study of alternative approaches to building roads
did not yield a useful product. In part this was the fault of the Secretariat, which at that time could not afford to
give much direct assistance to the expert, but the final product was not as envisioned in the terms of reference.
3. [Paragraph 25] While maintenance is important, sustainability is not entirely reflected in maintenance. The
project has in its training sessions and orientations stressed that empowerment is the number one goal of the
project, which should be measured by how much improvement there was in village capabilities and in how they
approach future development activities.
4. [Paragraph 52] With the advantage of hindsight, the preparation study for Sumatra and VIP2 was inadequate.
5. [Paragraph 47] One major handicap about involving auditing agencies in the project was that the agencies
themselves were mostly not interested in changing their methods and not interested in learning about the VIP
approach. Some continued to be difficult even after an approach was made to explain the differences.
6. [Paragraphs 8 to 7] More should have been said about village selection, as this had such an influence on project
results. Because of the speed with which the project was started, the villages in the first year were selected very
much top-down. Dissatisfactions were aired, and in the second year the villages were selected in a more bottom
up fashion, utilizing consultants, but this too was considered unsatisfactory. No matter how the villages were
selected it would be easy to find some more appropriate villages that were not selected and more inappropriate
ones that were selected, and finding such sites led people to be suspicious of the process. Examples of poor
selection efficiency were probably nothing more than the inefficiency of any large complicated system. Any way
to select villages would be subject to similar claims of unfairness.



Village Infrastructure Project                - 38 -
SUMMARY OF OTHER TYPES OF BENEFITS CITED BY ENUMERATORS
Jumlah desa           % Desa                               Jenis Manfaat
No. of Villages      % Villages                             Type of Benefit
101                58.7           Peningkatan jumlah anak sekolah / Increase in number of school
children
72                41.9           Listrik masuk desa / Electricity entered the village
37                21.5           Peningkatan sanitasi melalui MCK / Improved sanitation
23                 13.4          Transpor lebih lancar / Improved transportation
16                 9.3           Sekolah dipermudah / Easier to go to school
10                 5.8           Bahan bangunan masuk / Building materials enter the village
10                 5.8           Peningkatan fasilitas kesehatan / Improved health facilities or
access to them
7                 4.1            Kesehatan meningkat karena sumber air / Improved health from
healthy water source
5                 2.9            Pengaspalan / Asphalting of road
5                 2.9            Perubahan dalam cara menjual hasil / Change in method of selling
products
3                  1.7           Pembukaan isolasi desa / End of village isolation
3                  1.7           Pemilikan motor meningkat / Increase in motorcycle ownership
2                  1.2           Konstruksi rumah baru / Construction of new houses
2                  1.2           Kesempatan kerja ojek I Job opportunities for motorcycle taxis
1                 0.6           Mobil tangki bisa masuk / Tanker trucks can enter the village
1                 0.6            Dana dapat dikumpulkan untuk PDAM / Funds collected for city
water
1                 0.6           Pengaruh negatif orang masuk / Negative effects of strangfers
1                 0.6            Warung tambah / Increase in shops
1                 0.6            Penyebrangan sungai berbahaya / Remove danger from river
crossing
1                 0.6            Pengajian lebih lancar / Ease of religious meetings
1                 0.6            Terdapat gangguan keamanan IDisturbances
Total sample
172 villages
Increase in Numbers of School Children:
Before                  3154
After                   6597
An increase of 109% in numbers of students cited (for particular schools or levels only)
66 of the 101 villages reported more than 100% increase.



- 39 -                  Implementation Completion Report
Summary of Reported Economic Benefits
Sample Size
1995/1996   1996/1997
West Java                  12           24         36
Central Java               26           61         87
Yogyakarta                  2            4          6
EastJava                    9           34         43
Total      49          123        172
Summary of Quantifiable Economic Benefits
Number of Villages
Amount of Reported Benefits        Increase  Economic   Combined
Activities  Savings     Benefits
I                None                      17         17           7
2               0   -   100.000             2          1           0
3        100.000   -   250.000              2          0            0
4        250.000   -   500.0005                        2            2
5        500.000   - 1.000.0009                        3            1
6       1.000.000   -   2.500.000          19         12            5
7       2.500.000   -   5.000.000          14         18           13
8       5.000.000   -   10.000.000         30         29           15
9      10.000.000   -   25.000.000         25         45           48
10     25.000.000   -   50.000.000          20         33          28
11     50.000.000   -   100.000.000         17         11          32
12    100.000.000   -   250.000.000         10         1            18
13    250.000.000   -   500.000.000         2          0            3
14    500.000.000   -   1.000.000.000       0          0            0
Reported Economic Benifits Summary
VIP 1995/1996 & 1996/1997
50
45
40
1;35-
0,
co 30-
2Economic Savings
Ei Increased Activities
20-
=
Z 15
10
5
0
1  2  3  456  78  910 1112 1314
Range of Benefits



IBRD 26797R
100      1Cr                                               U                                                114?                                                114?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0
Sum  era~~~~B.Sua
Lebak            0            urk,o0                                                        AW               .        GotO
00                                                           0  ra                                     Searnan.
-  Siimedong t,4oiolengko  '            Pemnolng 
S.k.b..---i                            i ,       S,eb.., Tegal  0:/ w,loa                                                     00    dsaloaal 
i                                                      Kun.~g00            0        Baaegr         0Srnrn             00Bingr                           0uoby
00  0    0  \~~~~~~~   0                  00nob    0                                                                     jA Skat
~~Y~~vgya~K SuialwProbJombggn
00, ~~~~~Pagmnyarngle                             filr MIng Lni
A>~ ~-0--~ 0 v-. 0
106'         100'~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dri0Pb
VILLAGIE IN FRASTUCTfUREPO'C OPEINRPR
JC)                                                                                                          N,u                                                         110~~~~~~~-  -
Flores Sa           14
c                      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 
Indi  on    a12o
~,oesTimr                         ei                           foosngar                                                     ntrnaioalBoudaie
NiJSA  TENGOAkA  TiMU~~~~~~~~~    /0 Thnor                       Poria               Mooro -~~~~~100
Sumbo                     l.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T~~~~~~p~~~~~s~~~~A   Sowohiomlo    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ARL 9



