Report No. PIC3187
Project Name       Macedonia-Power System Operation Improvement Project (@+)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Electric Power and Other Energy
Project ID                     MKPA42399
Borrower                       Elektrostopanstvo Na Makedonija (ESM)
Implementing Agency            Elektrostopanstvo na Makedonija (ESM)
Ul "Bote Bocevski" 9, 91000 Skopje
Mr. Pande Lazarov, General Manager
Tel. 389-91-211237
Fax. 389-91-228350
Date this PID Prepared         March 4, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       May 1997
Projected Board Date           September 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, FYR Macedonia, is a
landlocked country located in the Balkan Peninsula with an area of
nearly 26 thousand square kilometers and 2.1 million people. FYR
Macedonia inherited from the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (SFRY) an inefficient economy and an institutional and legal
framework inconsistent with a market economy. The economic situation in
the country was then further hurt by the break up of the CMEA trading
system, the civil war in Yugoslavia and the Greek embargo. As a result
of these various difficulties, economic performance in FYR Macedonia
declined continuously from inception through 1995 with real GDP falling
nearly 35%. However, the economy began to stabilize in 1996 with the
end of the embargo and Yugoslav civil war.
2.   Electricity plays a significant role in the country's energy mix.
Total electricity supply in 1995 was around 5,800 GWh (including import
of 385 GWh). The total installed capacity of the system is 1474 MW
(1045 MW thermal and 429 MW hydro plants). The Macedonian power
utility, Elektrostopanstvo na Makedonija (ESM), operates as an
integrated public utility in charge of generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity. The power system of Macedonia, as a part
of the power system of SFRY, used to be linked to the European 400 kV
transmission system (UCPTE).    Now the Macedonian power system operates
in isolation from UCPTE and with only limited interchanges with other
neighboring countries. The power system needs some rehabilitation and to
be adjusted to better operate as a stand-alone system.
Objectives
3.   The Macedonian power system has been separated from the former
integrated Yugoslav system and the main problems emerging in the sector
are those related to the independent operation of the system , lack of
peaking capacity, primary and secondary regulation, and the age of some
of its plants. The proposed project has the following objectives:



a)improve the power system operation; b) improve power system
efficiency; and c) make system ready for regional interconnection and
interconnection to UCPTE.
Description
4.   The proposed project is expected to include the following
components: a) rehabilitation of 6 major hydropower plants; b)
completion of the Energy Management System; and 3) beginning the
rehabilitation of the distribution system.
Financing
5.   The Swiss Government is supporting the hydroplant rehabilitation
component with US$4.5 million grant financing. The Bank's Loan is
currently expected to be about $ 35 million. ESM will finance about
$17-$20 million of local primarily local costs. Other cofinanciers would
be welcome.
Implementation
6.   The project will be implemented by ESM.
Sustainability
7.   The project will improve the system operation by providing more
reliable peaking capacity and reduce system costs by reducing
maintenance and expanding generation of hydropower. However, the
sustainability of the benefits will depend on: a) appropriate
electricity prices; b) adequate operational and maintenance practice;
and c) efficient overall company management.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.   The Bank already approved four loans to the FYRM, one of which is
fully disbursed. This project will be the first Bank financed energy
project in FYR Macedonia. However, under the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit, ESM has been selected to participate in a
Special Restructuring Program which involves completion of
implementation of an approved cost-cutting action plan.     International
consultants were mobilized with technical assistance funds to help each
enterprise identify cost-cutting measures, including labor staffing.
ESM and the Government are now implementing a cost cutting plan. ESM
was one of the beneficiaries of a Bank loan to the SFRY (Ln. 2338-YU)
which was never completed. The main result of this project was that the
dispatch center building has been constructed.     Lessons of more recent
experience in Eastern Europe point to the need for ensuring early
agreement on the broad objectives of Bank assistance, focusing on
institutional strengthening measures,ensuring that investment decisions
are governed by economic criteria and providing assistance to the
implementing agency until they become familiar with Bank procedures,
particularly on procurement.
Poverty Category
-2-



9.   Not applicable to this project
Environmental Aspects
10. The project has a tentative environmental rating of B. The project
has environmental benefits. As a result of improved system efficiency
and expanded generation of hydropower the carbon dioxide and sulphur
emissions by the lignite fired power plants may be reduced.
Program Objective Categories
11. Environmentally sustainable development. The project will improve
the system's operational efficiency with a positive environmental
impact.
Contact Point:      Mr. James Moose, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-3563
Fax No.: (202)477-1386
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 14, 1997
Environmental Annex
The project has significant environmental benefits. It will
improve the efficiency of the Macedonian Power System which should
result in less combustion of lignite (the main fuel) and therefore lower
carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide emissions. The latter emissions will
also be reduced by an anticipated increase in hydropower generation
which will replace generation from lignite.
A safety/environmental review of the 4 dams involved in the
project has been undertaken. It was found that the dams are in
generally good condition and the 'professional level and awareness of
dam safety aspects is surprisingly high'. The dams were analyzed to see
how they would perform with an earthquake with a peak ground
acceleration of 0.46g and they were all found to maintain their
integrity during such an earthquake. In addition, all dams have
survived actual major earthquakes since FYR Macedonia is a seismically
active area. A number of recommendations were made for minor
improvements. These mostly involve additional software, certain
instruments, trade publications and outside training for the dam safety
staff which was thought to be very competent but isolated.
- 3 -



