Page  1
CONFORMED COPY        
LOAN NUMBER 4284 MK
Guarantee Agreement
(Power System Improvement  Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (the Guarantor)
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
Dated May 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4284 MK
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1998,  between the Guarantor and the Bank.
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Electrostopanstvo na Makedonija (the Borrower), 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan equal to sixty-one 
million five hundred thousand Deutsche Marks (DEM 61,500,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor 
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan , 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views with regard to the Guarantor’s electricity 
tariff policies and its plans in respect of the overall development of the energy 
sector.
Section 3.02.  The Guarantor shall: 
(a)
within one year of the value date of the first disbursement from the Loan 
Account, establish an average level of electricity prices in accordance with a 
methodology to be adopted by the Government of the Guarantor pursuant to the 
provisions of the Energy Law, which shall, in any event be not less than the 
equivalent of 7.5 pfennigs per kilowatt hour; and 
(b)
thereafter, maintain electricity prices at a level which shall be not 
less than the higher of (i) 7.5 pfennigs per kilowatt hour; and (ii) the level 
required under Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, 
the Guarantor shall ensure that the average price level for electricity is set at all 
times at such level as to enable the Borrower to comply with the financial covenants 
set out in Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the Loan Agreement, each as calculated in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, by December 31, 1999, acting in conjunction 
with the Borrower, establish a new least-cost electricity supply plan acceptable to 
the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, by December 31, 1998, adopt regulations under 
the Energy Law, acceptable to the Bank, governing the operations of IPPs in the 
Page  3
territory of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Telex:
51119
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Skopje as of the day and year first above written.
THE GUARANTOR
By /s/ Taki Fiti
Authorized Representative
THE BANK
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
