Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4284 MK
Loan Agreement
(Power System Improvement  Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTROSTOPANSTVO NA MAKEDONIJA
Dated May 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4284 MK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the 
ELECTROSTOPANSTVO NA MAKEDONIJA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Guarantor and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even 
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has 
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of 
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in 
the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement dated July 25, 1995 (the Swiss Grant 
Agreement), the Government of the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) 
has agreed to make a grant to the Borrower in a principal amount 
equal to five million Swiss francs (CHF 5,000,000) to assist in 
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
Page  2
forth in the Swiss Grant Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated 
May 30, 1995, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect 
to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the 
Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor 
pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of 
the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall 
be canceled.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble 
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” mean the lawful currency of 
the Federal Republic of Germany, but if such currency shall be 
replaced with the Euro, then “Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” shall be 
replaced by “Euro” for purposes of the Loan, at the ratio in effect 
as of the date of such replacement;
Page  3
b)
“Energy Law” means the Law on Energy of the Guarantor 
published in the Official Gazette on September 19, 1997;
(c)
“IPP” means an independent power producer which is 
not owned or controlled by the Borrower;
(d)
“Kozjak Dam and Powerhouse” means the dam and 
powerhouse to be located at Kozjak on the Treska river;
(e)
“Mavrovo Dam” means the dam located at Mavrovo in the 
territory of the Guarantor;
(f)
“National Dispatch Center” means the national 
dispatch center of the Borrower;
(g)
“pfennig” means a sub-unit of a Deutsche Mark;
(h)
“Project Implementation Unit” and “PIU” mean the 
Project implementation unit established within the Borrower;
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Statutes” means the statutes of the Borrower, 
adopted by its Board of Directors on October 24, 1996; and 
(k)
“UCPTE” means the Union for the Coordination of 
Production and Transmission of Electricity established for the 
Western European electricity network.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement, an amount equal to sixty-one million five hundred 
thousand Deutsche Marks (DEM 61,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in Deutsche Marks a special deposit account in a 
bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure, and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall 
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a 
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn 
from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate 
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  4
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from 
and including the date 
of this Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from 
and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next 
following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date 
specified in Section 2.06 of 
this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest 
Period, the London interbank 
offered rate for 
six-month deposits in Deutsche Marks for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial 
Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or 
next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest 
Period: (A) one half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month deposits, in 
respect of 
the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or portions thereof 
made by it that include the 
Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower 
of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, 
promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice 
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to in 
this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest 
of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less 
than six (6) months’ notice to the Guarantor and the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of 
the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification 
shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount 
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Page  5
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and public 
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the 
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank and furnish to Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
commencing with its fiscal year 1998, have 
its balance sheet based on revalued fixed 
assets;
(ii)
have its records, accounts and financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements), 
the records and accounts for expenditures 
under the Project and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six (6) months 
after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) above for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall, for each of its fiscal years commencing with 
fiscal year 1998, generate funds from internal sources equivalent 
to not less than 30% of the annual average of the Borrower's annual 
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that 
year, and the next following fiscal year.
(b)
Before April 30 of each of its fiscal years, the 
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower 
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect 
of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish 
to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If the Borrower intends to undertake any capital 
expenditure for the construction of new hydro power projects prior 
to the commissioning of the Kozjak Dam and Powerhouse, the Borrower 
shall, before undertaking such expenditure, provide evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that it would continue to meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section after 
having undertaken such expenditure.
(d)
If any review specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of 
this Section shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal 
years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all 
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(e)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means 
the difference between:
(A)
the sum of (m) revenues from all 
sources related to operations, 
Page  7
non-refundable consumer deposits and 
consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, (n) net non-operating 
income and (o) any reduction in working 
capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to 
operations, including (x) 
administration, maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding 
provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges), (y) debt 
service requirements and (z) any cash 
dividends and other cash distributions 
of surplus, increase in working capital 
other than cash and other cash outflows 
other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the 
difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than 
those related to operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of such revenues.
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash” 
means the difference between (a) current 
assets excluding cash and (b) current 
liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” 
means all assets other than cash which could 
in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 12 months, 
including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next fiscal year.
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all 
liabilities which will become due and payable 
or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment within 12 months, 
including accounts payable, customer 
advances, debt service requirements, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means 
the aggregate amount of repayments (including 
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term “capital expenditures” means all 
expenditures incurred on account of fixed 
assets.
(viii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section and 
Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement it 
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the 
currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful 
rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, lawfully 
Page  8
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such 
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall, for each of its fiscal years commencing with 
fiscal year 1998, generate net revenues for each fiscal year 
equivalent to at least 1.5 times the debt service requirements of 
the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower, including 
this Loan.
(b)
Before April 30 of each of its fiscal years, the 
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower 
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section and furnish 
to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower will not 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the 
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means the aggregate (as of 
the date of calculation) of all obligations 
of the Borrower then outstanding (other than 
short-term indebtedness which matures by its 
terms one year or less after the date on 
which it was originally incurred) for the 
payment or repayment of money, including, 
without limitation:
(A)
any amount payable by the Borrower 
under leases or similar arrangements 
over their respective periods;
(B)
any credit to the Borrower from a 
supplier of goods or under any 
installment purchase or other similar 
arrangements; and
(C)
the aggregate amount then outstanding 
of liabilities and obligations of third 
parties to the extent that they are 
guaranteed by the Borrower.
(ii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources 
related to operations and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to 
operations including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iii)
The terms “net non-operating income” and 
“debt service requirements” shall have the 
meanings ascribed to them in Section 4.02 of 
Page  9
this Agreement.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree 
the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1998, achieve and thereafter 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not 
less than 1.2:1.
(b)
Before April 30 in each of its fiscal years, the 
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower 
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect 
of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish 
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the 
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to 
meet such require-ments.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “current assets” means cash, all 
assets which could in the ordinary course of 
business be converted into cash within 12 
months, including accounts receivable, 
marketable securities, inventories and 
pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to 
operating expenses within the next fiscal 
year.
(ii)
The terms “current liabilities” and “debt 
service requirements” shall have the meanings 
ascribed to them in Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement.
Section 4.05. (a)  The Borrower shall take all action 
required on its part to reduce its accounts receivable following a 
methodology acceptable to the Bank so as to ensure that, by 
December 31, 2002, its accounts receivable do not exceed 18 percent 
(18%) of its gross operating revenues. 
(b)  For the purposes of this Section, the term 
“gross operating revenues” means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall increase its prices to, 
and maintain them at the levels established by the Guarantor in 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
(b)  
The Borrower shall take all action required on its 
part to establish, prior to December 31, 1999, a new least cost 
electricity supply plan acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.07.  The Borrower shall not accept any payment for 
electricity supplied in the form of shares unless the aggregate of 
such payments in any fiscal year does not exceed five percent of 
the Borrower’s annual gross operating revenues (as such term is 
defined in Section 4.05 of this Agreement).
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
Page  10
accordance with sound administrative, financial, public utility, 
engineering and environmental practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers;
(b) at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial, environmental and dam 
safety practices; and
(c) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely 
affect the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement; and
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of  any grant made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; and
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely 
that: the event specified in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  11
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Electrostopanstvo na Makedonija
11 Oktomvri 9
91000 Skopje
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in Skopje, as of the day and year 
first above written.
ELECTROSTOPANSTVO NA MAKEDONIJA
By /s/ M. Trpkoski
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Deutsche Marks)
to be 
Page  12
Financed
(1)
Equipment under
  37,400,000
100% of 
foreign
supply and install
expenditures
contracts
(2)
Goods
  15,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures, 100%
of 
local expendi-
tures 
(ex-factory
cost) 
and 85% of
local 
expenditures
for 
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services
     600,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
   8,500,000
TOTAL
  61,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
DEM1,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after November 3, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
(i) goods and equipment under supply and install contracts, under 
contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent each; and (ii) services 
under contracts with consultant firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts with individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase the 
efficiency of hydro-power generation; (ii) expand the generating 
capacity of major hydro-power plants; (iii) increase system 
operating efficiency of the power generation and transmission 
facilities; (iv) reduce losses in the electricity distribution 
Page  13
system; (v) facilitate the development of an independent power 
plant industry; and (vi) facilitate the re-integration of the 
Borrower into UCPTE.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives;
Part A:
Hydro-power Plant Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of six major hydro-power plants of the 
Borrower, including any necessary strengthening of the Mavrovo Dam, 
through the provision of equipment and technical assistance and the 
carrying out of works.
Part B:
Energy Management System
Improvement of the Energy Management System of the Borrower 
through:
(i)
installation and implementation of new remote 
control and data acquisition units for the 
power system;
(ii)
provision of hardware and software to 
strengthen the supervisory control of the 
National Dispatch Center; and
(iii)
installation of communication links including 
the provision of primary and secondary network 
equipment.
Part C:
Electricity Distribution System
Rehabilitation of the electricity distribution system 
through the installation of power and distribution transformers.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 
2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
     Payment of 
Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in 
Deutsche Marks) 
The figures in this column represent the amounts in Deutsche Marks 
to be repaid except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
August 15, 2002
1,560,000
February 15, 2003
1,590,000
August 15, 2003
1,620,000
February 15, 2004
1,645,000
August 15, 2004
1,675,000
February 15, 2005
1,705,000
August 15, 2005
1,740,000
February 15, 2006
1,770,000
August 15, 2006
1,800,000
February 15, 2007
1,835,000
August 15, 2007
1,870,000
February 15, 2008
1,900,000
Page  14
August 15, 2008
1,935,000
February 15, 2009
1,970,000
August 15, 2009
2,005,000
February 15, 2010
2,045,000
August 15, 2010
2,080,000
February 15, 2011
2,120,000
August 15, 2011
2,155,000
February 15, 2012
2,195,000
August 15, 2012
2,235,000
February 15, 2013
2,275,000
August 15, 2013
2,320,000
February 15, 2014
2,360,000
August 15, 2014
2,405,000
February 15, 2015
2,445,000
August 15, 2015
2,490,000
February 15, 2016
2,535,000
August 15, 2016
2,580,000
February 15, 2017
2,640,000
TOTAL
             61,500,000
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods and equipment under supply and install contracts shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
goods and equipment under supply and install contracts shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and equipment 
under supply and install contracts to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and equipment 
under supply and install contracts shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines 
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods and equipment 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Page  15
Goods and equipment under supply and install contracts 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for 
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for 
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or equipment 
under supply and install contracts estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods or equipment 
under supply and install contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Parts C1 and C2 of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier prior to 
the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured 
under direct contracting or shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract;
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  16
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services under Part B of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection.
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants.
Services under Part A of the Project for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of 
Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms  estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms  estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Page  17
1.
The Borrower shall, throughout Project implementation, 
maintain the Project Implementation Unit with a Director and key 
staff, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall complete studies on the safety of 
the Mavrovo Dam being carried out by the University of Skopje and 
other national universities under studies funded by the Borrower, 
and shall undertake, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and complete not later than December 31, 1998, any 
rehabilitation works on the Mavrovo Dam agreed with the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory 
to the Bank, (i) maintain the Mavrovo Dam, the dams located at 
Tikves, Globocica, and Spilje, and related infrastructure works 
(the Dams); (ii) take all necessary action to ensure the safe 
condition of the Dams; and (iii) cause the Dams to be periodically 
inspected by experts with qualifications, experience, resources and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank in accordance with sound 
engineering practices acceptable to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
the indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about October 31, 2000, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank 
views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), 
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to DEM 4,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
Page  18
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to DEM 1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of DEM 6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to  the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, 
the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request,  the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan 
Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible 
Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits 
into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
Page  19
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to 
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
