P0OFL3 CE         O[~7 (The) Document of
Th WoRld Bank
IF    OI  ClCAL USE ONLY
q2" No, ~~~~~~~~P-1961-C
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL-BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE-OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
December 16, 1976
This cenemet km a rogcea1 (9Wdbml w   ia w y b4  bym3   X       17 ae pommee of
lthelir keI2ld O   les. Us co4amb in y ac £ lse z  z Ffefisdllw  w   Wou-X.3=2s nonzlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(at the time of appraisal and used in this report)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$ 1         =  US$0.033
Col$ 1,000     =  US$33.33
Col$ 1,000,000 = US$33,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BC           - Banco Cafetero                            Coffee Growers' Bank
BCH          - Banco Central Hipotecario                Central Mortgage Bank
BG           - Banco Ganadero                           Cattle Raisers' Bank
BOR          - Banco de la Republica                    Bank of the Republic
BP           - Banco Popular                            Popular Bank
CAJA AGRARIA - Caja de Credito Agrario,                 Agricultural, Industrial and
Industrial y Minero                      Mining Credit Bank
CFP          - Corporacion Financiera Popular            Popular Finance Corporation
COFIAGRO     - Corporacion Financiera de Fomento        Agricultural Development and
Agropecuario y Exportaciones             Exports Finance Corporation
FFAP         - Fondo Financiero Agropecuario            Agricultural Finance Fund (BOR)
FFI          - Fondo Financiero Industrial-              Industrial Finance Fund (BOR)
FIP          - Fondo para Inversiones Privadas          Private Investment Fund (BOR)
ICA          - Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario        Colombian Agricultural Institute
IDEMA        - Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario       Institute for Agricultural
Marketing
INCORA       - Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma       Colombian Agrarian Reform
Agraria                                   Institute
INDERENA     - Instituto de los Recursos Naturales       Institute for Renewable Natural
Renovables y del Medio Ambiente          Resources and the Environment
MB           - Junta Monetaria                           Monetary Board
PA           -                                           Participating Agency
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banco de la Republica (BOR) with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia for the equivalent of US$64 million, the proceeds of which would be
relent by BOR to public and private financial intermediaries for the financing
of medium- and long-term investments in commercial agriculture (including live-
stock) and in related agro-industries. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.7 percent per annum. The
proceeds would be relent on the terms summarized in Annex III.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1190-CO) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in August 1976. It was designed to assess current
developments and provide a medium-term prospective of the Colombian economy.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy and the country is now well advanced
in the transition from a predominantly rural, agricultural, and largely
self-contained economy to an urban industrial economy, more oriented toward
international trade. Broadening of the country's productive base has been
accompanied by rapid growth of nontraditional exports (those other than
coffee) and development of a modern sector which relies to a considerable
extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1975 GDP increased by an average 6.0%
per annum in real terms, well above the historical average of less than 5%
(1950-67), and real per capita income increased by an average annual 3.6%.
Two mutually dependent phenomena, increased investment and relaxation of the
foreign exchange constraint, have been major factors in bringing about this
acceleration. Merchandise exports have expanded more than three-fold since
1967 and, most significantly, nontraditional exports have become an increas-
ingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, growing from 27% of
merchandise exports to about 50% at present. Much of this increase was the
result of both product and market diversification, especially of manufactured
Thb document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
exports, as the share of total exports shipped to Latin American countries
more than doubled. Despite the rapid development which has taken place in
recent years, however, Colombia remains essentially an underdeveloped country
with a still limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional, and
poor base.
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974, the country
was faced with several adverse developments -- weakening balance of payments
situation, impending loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, infla-
tion, deterioration of public finances, and reduction in public investment --
which threatened to interrupt the high growth rate achieved by Colombia in
recent years. The new administration embarked upon an economic stabilization
program with the aim of restoring the basis for sustained economic growth.
In line with this, it implemented basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary
and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen public finances, the new Government implemented
a tax reform which covered almost every important component of the tax system
and represented a significant improvement in terms of the progressivity and
elasticity. The Government also made certain changes in the financial system
with the purpose of stimulating private savings and improving the allocational
efficiency of the financial system. The action included a restructuring of
interest rates, simplication of the complex reserve system, and elimination of
many of the more rigid and cumbersome controls.
6.        The Government also took steps to correct major distortions which
existed in the price system. Price controls on a number of important agricul-
tural products were removed. In mid-May of this year, the Government intro-
duced far-reaching modifications in its petroleum pricing policy which aim
at regaining self-sufficiency in production of crude petroleum by improving
incentives for exploration and exploitation. Under the new policy, foreign
oil companies will be paid the international price of crude CIF Cartagena
for new petroleum produced in association with the government petroleum cor-
poration. (Previously the foreign oil companies received less than US$7 per
barrel for new crude). The Government is also encouraging incremental produc-
tion from existing fields and, in this connection, eliminated the special
petroleum exchange rate, effectively increasing the price of crude oil
by about 20%. Furthermore, retail prices of gasoline have been raised in
successive steps from US$0.11/gallon in August 1975 to US$0.24/gallon in
August 1976, or by 118%. The Government proposes to continue this policy
until the prices of gasoline and other petroleum derivatives approach inter-
national prices.
7.        As expected, economic growth slowed in 1975 (from 6% in 1974 to
about 4%) and unemployment increased, reflecting both the impact of the
stabilization measures adopted at the end of 1974 and the effects of the
world recession. Towards the end of the year the economy began to recover,
stimulated by increased exports, larger agricultural output and heightened
industrial activity. Government revenues rose by an unprecedented 50% com-
pared to 1974; savings deposits and bonds outstanding, reflecting higher



- 3 -
interest rates, increased from 23% of GDP in 1974 to 25% in 1975. Further-
more, inflation was reduced from 27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975, i.e., below
the Government's target of 20%. Moreover, the balance of payments turned
favorable as a result of the sharp increase in world coffee prices, expansion
of non-coffee agricultural exports and reduced imports stemming from the
Government's stabilization effort. By the end of 1975 Colombia's official
foreign exchange reserves had recovered to about US$550 million, sufficient to
cover almost four months' imports. With increased export earnings the public
debt-service ratio declined from 16.7% in 1974 to 12.7% in 1975. Thus
Colombia, through a combination of fiscal, monetary and trade policies and
fortuitous external developments, was able to avoid any severe, prolonged
economic slowdown and to improve its external liquidity position in an envi-
ronment of worldwide recession.
Performance in 1976
8.        The economic forces have continued to be favorable during 1976.
Coffee prices are high and the balance of payments remains strong; foreign
exchange reserves reached nearly US$900 million at the end of the third quarter
of the year, the highest level in Colombia's history. The increased demand
generated by the higher incomes of the coffee producers has been a powerful
stimulus to the economy which is staging a sharp recovery. Real GDP growth
is projected at 6%, a growth rate approaching that achieved during the 1968-74
period (6.7% per annum). As a result, the urban unemployment has declined
to about 10% in mid-1976 compared to 13% a year earlier.
9.        The inflow of foreign exchange from coffee sales has, however, led
to a resurgence of inflation during the first half of 1976 and this has
prompted the Government to continue to give priority to short-term manage-
ment of demand. In this context, it has taken several measures. Legal
reserve requirements have been increased and limitations on private external
borrowing have been established. Import duties have been drastically reduced
to shift part of the inflationary pressures to the external sector. Fiscal
management is quite restrictive as the Treasury accounts have been kept in
balance in the first half of the year even after repayment of the Government's
short-term domestic debt. Almost two-thirds of coffee earnings are being kept
from increasing the monetary base by measures adopted recently. 1/ The Govern-
ment expects that a bumper harvest and the liberalized import policy will
(although with a lag) increase the supply of goods, thus dampening pressure on
domestic prices. Nevertheless, inflationary pressures are likely to persist,
since foreign exchange reserves are projected to continue increasing. This
1/   The measures are:   15% of payments to coffee producers to be made in
three-year compulsory savings certificates; an increase in the coffee
retention tax from 23% to 46%, and investment of a substantial portion of
this tax, including the four percentage points received by the Coffee
Federation, in Government bonds.



- 4 -
would, even after the sterilization measures taken, add to the monetary expan-
sion. Furthermore, current price and cost trends (the Government is attempting
to hold wage increases in the public sector to 10%, but private sector wages
will probably increase substantially more) as well as "corrective" adjustments
in public-service prices make deceleration of price increases unlikely during
the remainder of 1976. However, the Government remains strongly committed to
reducing inflation; the tightening of monetary and fiscal policies, accompanied
by the liberalization of imports and the stabilization of world coffee prices,
should enable the Government to control the rate of inflation.
Development Strategy and Prospects
10.       The Government's development strategy is embodied in the 1975-78
development plan. The plan aims at creating the conditions necessary for
substantially reducing unemployment through increased capital accumulation in
the private sector, improvement in the efficiency of the price system in order
to encourage more labor intensive production techniques and expansion of
public investment. The main focus of the public sector investment plan is on
Colombia's poorest regions -- Choco, Narino, Boyaca, and the North Coast --
and the rural and urban poor. Special priority has been assigned to agricul-
ture because it is in the rural areas where the greatest concentration of
poverty exists and in agricultural activities where the highest employment
impact can be achieved. Commercial agriculture is also to receive support due
to its strong contribution to export and employment growth. A substantial
portion of public expenditures is being reoriented toward nutrition and
primary education programs which affect the productivity of the poorest 50% of
the population. Policies for promoting decentralization of industry away
from the largest cities in the country have been adopted to accelerate inte-
gration of more backward areas into the modern sector of the economy.
11.       Colombia's strong balance of payments prospects for the immediate
future should make it possible in 1977 for the country to resume the high rate
of growth of GDP (6-7%) achieved in the early 1970s. Maintenance of 7% growth
in the late 1970s and beyond will require imports to increase at a rapid pace
(about 10% per annum in real terms). Export prospects for the next several
years, however, are excellent, as world coffee prices remain strong and
economic growth is resuming in the industrialized countries. With the contin-
uation of appropriate incentives, minor exports should grow very rapidly
once again. Manufactured exports -- textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals,
mechanical and electrical equipment, and paper products -- are over the
long-term expected to lead this recuperation, along with non-coffee agricul-
tural exports. Given the improved outlook for coffee, the deficit in the
resource balance is projected to remain low throughout the late 1970s.
Balance of payments prospects beyond 1980 will depend to a significant extent
on the results of petroleum exploration and on progress made in implementation
of several resource-based export projects currently under preparation.
12.       Colombia is expected to require gross capital inflows of US$2.8
billion during the five-year period 1976-80, of which almost US$600 million
will be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1975. To attain



- 5 -
this level, annual gross capital inflow will have to increase from US$435
million in 1976 to US$760 million in 1980. Direct foreign investment is
expected to provide only a small part (5%) of the required capital inflow,
with approximately 50% being provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources and the remainder by suppliers', financial and other private credits.
Local-cost financing by the Bank is considered justified by Colombia's pro-
gressive development policies and programs and domestic resource mobilization
efforts, in those cases where such financing is required to give the Bank a
meaningful role in high priority projects.
13.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$2.9 billion at the end of 1975, or US$2.3 billion excluding
undisbursed commitments. The Bank Group's share of this external debt (dis-
bursed only) as of the end of 1975 was about 28% and is expected to remain at
this level through 1980. Service on this debt was about 12.7% of exports
goods and non-factor services in 1975. Assuming recovery of minor exports
and the favorable outlook for coffee, the debt service ratio is projected
to decline to approximately 12% in 1980. The Bank's share of total debt
service is about 30% at present but is expected to decline to 20% by 1980.
With the maintenance of sound economic and financial policies, Colombia should
have no difficulty securing or servicing the amounts of external capital it
needs.
PART II:   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.       The proposed loan, the 65th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,362.2 million (net of cancella-
tions). 1/ Of the foregoing amount, US$945.9 million is now held by the Bank.
IDA has made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961.
15.       Disbursements have been completed on 39 loans and the one IDA credit.
IFC has made effective investments and underwriting commitments in 22 enter-
prises in Colombia, totalling about US$36.2 million of which IFC now holds
US$21.2 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the
IDA credit, and IFC investments as of June 30, 1976. The Annex also contains
notes on the execution of the 24 on-going projects.
16.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
than in earlier years. All three loans in the education sector have been
made since then, as were seven of the eleven agricultural loans and six of the
nine loans for industry. This compares with seven loans since FY68 in the
sectors where the Bank has been traditionally active, i.e., power and trans-
port. Bank efforts have been focused on production oriented activities
and activities which carry social as well as economic benefits.
1/   Including a loan of US$52 million for integrated rural development
scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors on December 23,
1976.



- 6 -
17.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY76 consisted of one loan for develop-
ment finance companies totalling US$80 million. The FY77 program includes
the proposed integrated rural development project, the proposed agricultural
credit project and a proposed road rehabilitation project. In addition, work
is under way on nutrition and health, small-scale industry, slum improvement,
power, telecommunications, water supply and sewerage, tourism, mining, and
cooperative development and agricultural marketing for possible consideration
by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
18.       In lending to Colombia, the Bank tries to assist the Government in
achieving four major objectives. These objectives are interdependent and
complementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attach directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second objective is to help Colombia expand output, including
exports, by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large con-
tributions to production and employment. A third objective is to support
programs that will bring about improvements in the management of the economy
and, particularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and
financial intermediaries. A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient
external resources to complement Colombia's domestic savings and provide the
necessary funds for maintaining an adequate level of economic and social
investments in a framework of sound domestic finances and a viable balance of
payments.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex 1.
While IBRD, IDB and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to approxi-
mately 40%. The IDB has assisted projects in low cost housing, university
education, agrarian reform, ports, electric power, water supply, transportation,
and industry. Between 1968 and 1972 AID shifted the emphasis of its lending
from program to sector loans, particularly for education, urban development and
agriculture. More recently, it has moved in the direction of small project
loans aimed chiefly at the improvement of income distribution. It is ex-
pected to phase out its aid program in Colombia over the next year.
PART III:   AGRICULTURE IN COLOMBIA
20.       An exceptional regional diversity in soils and climates enables
Colombia to produce a wide range of agricultural commodities for home con-
sumption and export. In recent years, Government policy has been successful
in encouraging the use of the country's potential to diversify agricultural
production and exports. This, combined with increasing exports of manufac-
tures, has brought about the decline of coffee from over two-thirds to about
half the value of total exports. The overall rate of growth of the agricul-
tural sector averaged 4.6% annually in real terms during 1965-73, as compared
with 2.7% during the first half of the 1960's.



- 7 -
21.       Despite the recent favorable growth performance, the sector is con-
fronted with serious structural problems. While agriculture contributes only
about 27% of GDP, it employs about 40% of the Colombian labor force. Average
per capita income in rural areas is only half the level of urban incomes, and
rural income distribution is very inequitable, with the poorest 40% of the
rural population receiving only 12% of total rural income.
Land Use and Distribution
22.       The Agustin Codazzi Geographic Institute and the Colombian Agrarian
Reform Institute (INCORA) have classified 69 million of Colombia's 114 million
hectares into eight major soil classes. (The remaining 45 million hectares of
national territory are located in the largely unpopulated regions of the
Orinoco plains and Amazonia). These studies show that there are more than 12
million hectares of land suitable for crops, two-thirds of which are situated
in the Andean and Caribbean regions. About 32 million hectares are believed
suitable for extensive livestock operations. Nevertheless in 1970 only 7.7
million hectares were put to permanent and seasonal crops and only 17.5 mil-
lion hectares were in use for livestock. It appears, moreover, that in the
heavily populated Caribbean and Andean regions more than half of the 8 mil-
lion hectares suitable for crops are used for livestock operations. These
figures point to a considerable under-utilization of available land resources.
23.       The size distribution of land among farms is highly skewed.     Accord-
ing to the 1960 agricultural census the largest 10% of farm units accounted
for 80% of farm land, while half of all units comprised less than 3% of farm
land. Despite the activities of INCORA during the last decade, the 1970
agricultural census shows that the size distribution of farms remained almost
the same as in 1960. It should be noted that the distribution of farms by
asset value is less skewed than the distribution of farms according to physical
size. Nevertheless, since many large holdings consist of unimproved natural
grassland and fallow land, it is necessary to improve the distribution of land
ownership if more efficient use of the land is to result.
Labor Force and Productivity
24.       There is large seasonal variation in agricultural employment which
generates seasonal labor movements from urban to rural areas, from one farm-
ing area to another, and from farm to farm. In view of these seasonal changes
in rural employment, it is difficult to draw conclusions from available
statistical data. A recent study of rural employment concluded that farm
families of the 1970 census could be classified according to principal source
of income as follows: about half were dependent on their family-size farms,
while one-quarter were dependent on wages from agricultural work. The remain-
ing were either operators of large farms or derived their income about equally
from family-size farms and agricultural wages.
25.       Continuing rapid migration from rural to urban areas has held the net
increase in the agricultural labor force to an estimated 1% annually in recent
years, notwithstanding high birth rates and population growth in the country



- 8 -
as a whole. 1/ In the highland areas, the agricultural labor force appears to
have decreased slightly, with most of the increase taking place in the lowlands
and eastern plains. Both areas have probably gains in productivity per worker,
in view of the relatively high agricultural growth rate since 1965.
26.       Most attempts to analyze the rural labor supply and demand situations
have shown considerable unemployment or underemployment. A recent study of the
1950-70 period concluded that average rural underemployment had fallen from 31%
in 1950 to 25% in 1970, but that in the season of peak labor needs, the gap
had narrowed from 20% in 1950 to 9% in 1970. Thus, the employment situation
seems to have been improving in recent years. However, there are indications
that as a result of the recession during 1974 and 1975 rural unemployment
increased.
Sources of Increased Production
27.       In 1974 growth of value added in Colombia's agricultural sector
reached the relatively high rate of 5%. The growth rate for crop agriculture
exceeded that for livestock, in contrast to the long-term trend since 1953.
Fishing, forestry, and miscellaneous components of agricultural output account
for less than a tenth of the total, but their combined growth has been faster
than that of the crop and livestock subsectors. Prospects now appear to be
good that Colombia's agriculture can maintain an overall rate of growth of 5
to 5.5% over the medium term.
28.       Exceptionally large crops of rice, cotton, and grain sorghum contri-
buted to the large increase of output in 1974. Production of these crops has
risen substantially since 1963, and there have also been substantial gains for
sugar, palm oil, and cassava. Gains in crop output have for the most part
been realized through expansion of planted acreage.    Only in the case of rice
has increased yield been a dominant factor and this is the result of replace-
ment of traditional cultivation of dry land rice by irrigated rice.    More
double-cropping has accompanied the expansion in plantings of irrigated rice
and cotton, with the result that the increase of nearly half a million hectares
in total plantings of major crops over the last decade has been realized with
only about half as large an increase in the area of cropland.
29.       Much of the additional crop output is being produced under a new
structuring of relationships between producers, land, and products. Irri-
gated rice, for example, is commonly being grown on different land and by
different producers than the rain-fed crop which it replaced. INCORA's
colonization activities have brought new entrepreneurs into agriculture,
and INCORA has also encouraged livestock producers in the Sinu Valley and
elsewhere to plant higher value cash crops such as corn on some of their
arable land. Available evidence indicates that small farms of the hillsides
1/   The Population Council has found recently that Colombia's birth rate
is declining. The birth rate is now estimated at 30-33 per thousand,
which would result in a natural population increase of 2.1%-2.4%.



- 9 -
and highlands have added less to crop output than have new producers, both
large and small, working with or without mechanization on the lowlands.
30.       Most of the expanded output of the livestock subsector has been
associated with the 3 - 4% annual expansion of the national cattle herd,
which in 1974 numbered an estimated 23.9 million head. Annual production of
cattle (the number of animals slaughtered, exported, and retained for inven-
tory expansion) has remained close to 16% of the national herd for a number of
years, while the commercial extraction rate (slaughter plus live exports) has
varied between 11 and 15% in a roughly cyclical pattern. Calving rates have
been estimated at about 55%, with mortality at about 4% of total inventory.
These performance rates reflect the relatively extensive type of livestock
management which predominates in Colombia. Animals of the dairy breeds and
others classified as milking stock account for only about a seventh of all
cattle. Much of the milk output comes from cows milked only once a day in
herds kept primarily for beef production.
31.       Only a small portion of present grassland is improved, so that
stocking rates average only about one head per hectare. Improvement of
technical performance rates will require substantial amounts of assistance
to small as well as large producers, since 20% of the cattle population
is in herds of fewer than 50 head and about 30% is in herds of 50 to 500
head. With expanded assistance, including investment credit, cattle produc-
tion could grow at 5% per year.
32.       Non-coffee agricultural exports amounted to about US$342 million
and accounted for about 24% of total merchandise exports at the end of 1975.
During the last five years they have been growing rapidly, at an annual rate
of about 45%. This expansion has been particularly important for cotton
(19% per annum), sugar (42% per annum), bananas (18% per annum), beef (28%
per annum), tobacco (19% per annum), as well as flowers and rice (each in
excess of 100% per annum). The Government proposes to continue policies which
have stressed maintenance of an appropriate exchange rate through the crowl-
ing peg mechanism and to complement this with the provision of sufficient
credit to agriculture, in order to increase non-coffee agricultural exports
further.
Agro-industries
33.       The facilities for processing and storage of crop and animal products
have not improved as fast as the expansion of production from the commercial
segment of the agricultural sector. Processing of agricultural products is
concentrated in sugar cane processing plants, cotton ginneries, rice and wheat
mills, oil extraction plants and milk, vegetable, and fruit processing plants.
Considerable additional investment is required to expand and modernize exist-
ing agro-industries. While the larger projects are able to rely on industrial
credit sources for their financing, there is also a need for additional small
processing facilities located close to the areas in which production is in-
creasing or is expected to increase. Financing for such small, decentralized
facilities is in general more difficult for entrepreneurs to obtain and
therefore would be assisted under the proposed project.



- 10 -
Institutional Support
34.       The Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) and the Institute for
Renewable Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA) are responsible
for research, quality control and technological development in the sector.
In addition, ICA trains extension agents and checks the quality of advice
provided by private consultants. ICA also has a special responsibility for
advisory services for farmers with less than 10 ha. The Institute for Agri-
cultural Marketing (IDEMA) is charged with stabilizing prices and ensuring
adequate supplies of agricultural products by storage and importation.
Each of the institutions has experienced serious financial and managerial
problems, but the difficulties have been recognized by the present Govern-
ment, which is committed to strengthening these key entities in the agri-
cultural sector. The financial condition of ICA has been improved by
instituting charges for many of its services while the activities of IDEMA
have been brought more closely into line with its financial capacity.
35.       Associations of producers are important institutions in Colombia and
have assumed many of the functions undertaken by public agencies elsewhere.
In addition, banks also have technical staff for credit evaluation and super-
vision and the provision of technical assistance. The private sector has
about 1,000 professionals and 700 assistants engaged in advisory work,
while the public sector has about 900 professionals and 1,500 assistants
concerned exclusively with technical assistance.
Agricultural Credit
36.       Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja Agraria) is the
principal agricultural credit bank in Colombia. It was initiated in 1931 as
a part of a state-owned bank. In 1971 it was transformed into a mixed enter-
prise although the Government still retains an 89% shareholding. Caja Agraria
has had considerable experience with lending to farmers and has participated
successfully in two previous projects partially financed by the Bank. It has
25 regional and 805 branch offices, many of which also have outlets for seeds,
fertilizers, and other farm requirements. Sales of farm inputs by Caja Agraria
currently account for about half of all national sales of these products. At
the end of 1974, loans to small-scale farmers accounted for about 60% of its
loan portfolio.
37.       At the end of 1975, the agricultural credit portfolio of the Colombian
banking system totalled about US$500 million equivalent, which corresponded to
about 25% of all outstanding loans, exclusive of those for housing, or an
allocation approximately equivalent to the contribution of the agricultural
sector to GDP. The increase in nominal Colombian pesos was about 17% in 1973,
17% in 1974, and 22% in 1975. Given the prevailing rates of inflation, in
real terms there were no increases in credit to agriculture during these three
years. More rapid expansion of agricultural credit, therefore, will be needed
if a 5% growth rate in agriculture is to be sustained over the long run. This,
in turn, might require increases in the interest rates and spreads permitted
under the central bank's agricultural rediscount system, if financial inter-
mediaries are to have sufficient incentive to bring about such expansion.



Government Policy
38.       The Colombian authorities have recognized that the problems of rural
poverty and unemployment cannot be solved without a change in the structure
of the agricultural sector through a production-oriented agrarian reform.
Government actions since the establishment of INCORA in 1961 have aimed at
lessening the concentration of land ownership and income through resettlement
on publicly owned lands and on private land which has been purchased by the
Government; by providing irrigation and drainage in areas inhabited chiefly by
small farmers; and by granting land titles to squatters and tenants. In its
irrigation and drainage districts INCORA has imposed legal ceilings on the
amount of land that may be retained by one owner once project works are
completed. Elsewhere there has been little outright redistribution of produc-
tive land, however. A new phase of land reform policies was initiated by the
agrarian reform act of 1973. This had two main purposes: first, to substan-
tially improve the compensation paid by INCORA for well-managed land and
thus dispel insecurity among land-owners able to embark upon farm investment
programs and, second, to make it easier for INCORA to acquire land from
private owners. In the implementation of these policies, however, the Govern-
ment proposes not to break up and redistribute large farms which are being
utilized effectively and are contributing to maintaining the growth rate.
The Government feels that a balance should be kept between economic growth
and greater participation by small farmers in the production process.
39.       The Government's objectives in the agricultural sector are to in-
crease total agricultural production as rapidly as possible, thereby making
available greater supplies of food and agricultural raw materials to help
raise the nutritional standards of its population, decrease imports, and in-
crease exports. To support these goals, the Government has adjusted the prices
of certain commodities upward to encourage their increased production. Although
food supplies have generally kept pace with population growth, the average diet
has improved little, if any, over a decade or more. Recognizing this problem,
the Government has focused special attention on improving the levels of human
nutrition, particularly of the poorest sector of the population, and to this
end has prepared a National Food and Nutrition Plan. The proposed project and
the proposed Integrated Rural Development Project--as well as a Nutrition and
Health Project which the Bank has under consideration--are considered by the
Government to be key elements in the carrying out of this Plan.
PART IV:   THE PROJECT
Background
40.       From FY66 to date the Bank has made eight loans to Colombia for
agricultural development, totalling US$114.6 million equivalent. 1/ Five of
1/   A ninth loan -- US$52 million equivalent for an Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Project -- is scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors
on December 23, 1976.



- 12 -
the Bank loans helped to finance land development or colonization projects of
INCORA, while the other three helped to finance credit programs for livestock
ranchers and crop farmers in specific. regions. Loans No. 448-CO of FY66 and
No. 651-CO of FY71 provided credit funds through the Caja Agraria for livestock
development, while Loan No. 624-CO of FY69 utilized INCORA as the intermediary
for a program of credit for crop farmers. A Project Performance Audit Report
on Loan No. 651-CO has been distributed to the Executive Directors and a similar
report on Loan No. 624-CO is under preparation. With the exception of the two
livestock loans, small and medium farmers have been the principal beneficiaries
of the Bank's agricultural loans to Colombia.
41.       With the approaching completion in 1975 of the commitment periods
for Loans No. 624-CO and No. 651-CO, the Bank began discussions with the
Colombian Government with a view toward the preparation of projects that would
permit continuation of the Bank's financial assistance to the two credit pro-
grams, one for crops and the other for livestock development. These discussions
ultimately led to the conception of the present project, which combines the two
programs into one.
42.       Preparation of the project was coordinated by BOR (CoLombia's central
bank), with assistance from the FAO-IBRD/CP and the Bank. The project was
appraised by a Bank mission in April/May 1975, and loan negotiations were
held in Bogota and Washington from February to December 1976 with a Colombian
delegation led by Dr. Rudolf Hommes, Director of Public Credit, Ministry of
Finance. A project appraisal report entitled "Colombia: Second Agricultural
Credit Project" (No. 1248-CO dated November 15, 1976) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
project are summarized in Annex III hereto.
Project Description
43.       The proposed loan would support a three-year lending program of BOR
to help finance on-farm investment (excluding coffee) and investment in agro-
industries through public and private financial intermediaries. The project
would be production-oriented and would be in line with the Government's
strategy to raise the output, productivity, and employment capacity of the
agricultural sector. The principal objectives of the project would be to:
(a)  expand food production to enable Colombia to continue meeting
nearly all its domestic food requirements from local resources,
and particularly, to increase the domestic supply of carbohy-
drate and protein foods in support of the Government's efforts
to improve dietary standards through the National Food and
Nutrition Plan;
(b)  increase the availability of inputs for industry from the agri-
cultural sector;
(c)  continue agriculture's substantial contribution to export
earnings; and



- 13 -
(d) increase employment opportunities, particularly in rural areas,
by creating jobs on farms and in agro-industries.
44.       The project would be administered by BOR.   Loan proceeds totaling
US$37 million, allocated for financing on-farm investment including the
purchase of equipment by farm machinery contractors, would be handled by BOR's
Agricultural Credit Department, while loan proceeds totaling US$19 million,
allocated for financing agro-industry investment, would be channeled through
BOR's Development Credit Department. The latter Department handles BOR's
industrial credit lines. Credit to sub-borrowers would be extended in the
form of rediscounts of sub-loans granted by any public or private financial
intermediary which fulfills prescribed conditions and is approved by BOR. An
US$8 million portion of the proposed loan would initially be unallocated as
between agricultural and agro-industry investment, with its ultimate alloca-
tion to be determined by actual experience under the project regarding the
effective demand for sub-loans. Of the US$37 million initially allocated for
on-farm investment, an amount of US$14 million would be reserved exclusively
for relending to small commercial farmers, defined as those who (i) have gross
assets, including land, not exceeding the equivalent of US$25,000, of which
not less than 75% is invested in farming activities, and (ii) derive at least
75% of their income from farming.
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The project would finance investments estimated to total approxi-
mately US$175 million, with commitments taking place over an estimated
three-year period and disbursement of the Bank loan over an estimated four-
year period. The proposed Bank loan of US$64 million would finance 37% of
the total estimated investment, which represents the estimated foreign ex-
change costs. The foreign-exchange risk on the Bank loan would be borne
by BOR.
46.       The remainder of the financing of the investment program would be
provided by (1) BOR and the participating financial intermediaries, which would
contribute US$73,8 million equivalent or 42% of total estimated investment;
and (2) sub-borrowers, who would be required to finance US$36.3 million
equivalent or 21%.
Projected Investments
47.       The project would be country-wide and would increase the availabi-
lity of medium- and long-term investment financing for the whole agricultural
sector with the exception of coffee. It is estimated that about 9,000 sub-
loans would be made to farmers, about 100 to machinery contractors, and 150 to
200 to agro-industries. Annual crops, the production of which would be most
likely to increase under the project, include rice, cotton, soybeans, and
vegetables. Production of potatoes, wheat, and barley on small farms in the



- 14 -
highlands would also be expected to increase. The perennial crops whose
production is most likely to be promoted are sugarcane for non-centrifuged
sugar (panela), cocoa, plantains, citrus, and perhaps bananas and oil palms.
48.       As to livestock development, the project would help to establish or
improve the productivity of dairy farms averaging about 60 hectares, located
mainly in the temperate and cool zones of the Andes. Investment would also
be stimulated in new or expanded beef breeding and/or fattening operations,
for the most part located in the plains of the Orinoco or in the Amazon basin
where ranching using extensive grazing techniques is practiced. Small-scale
livestock farmers--chiefly in the Caribbean coastal plains, upper and middle
Magdalena River valley, and the Andean foothills where about 70% of Colombia's
cattle population is grazed--would also be expected to seek financing as a
result of the project. Besides cattle, operations producing small animals
such as sheep, goats, pigs, poultry, and rabbits wold be eligible for financ-
ing, either independently or in association with cattle operation.
49.       The most likely agro-industry investments under the proposed project
would be in plants for processing staples (rice, sugar, poultry), associated
inputs (seeds, animal feed), service industries (grain storage, cold storage),
and export industries (flowers, fruits, and vegetables). It is hoped that
the agro-industry component in the proposed loan will facilitate the under-
taking of investments in small processing or storage facilities needed in
rural areas close to farms, the lack or insufficiency of which may constitute
a bottleneck to increased farm production. While industrial firms may be
eligible to receive financing from the private development finance companies
in Colombia which can draw on the Bank's DFC loans, the DFC's tend to deal
with relatively large-scale firms. The Bank has also made a Small-Scale
Industry Loan to Colombia through the Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP),
but like the clients of the DFC's the clients of CFP are generally located in
urban areas.
Institutional Arrangements
50.       BOR would administer the project through the office of the sub-
manager for credit, who supervises the two specialized departments that would
be involved--the Agricultural Credit Department and the Development Credit
Department. Lending for on-farm development and for machinery contractors
would be handled by the Agricultural Credit Department through its Agricultural
Finance Fund (FFAP). Lending for agro-industries would be handled by the
Development Credit Department and coordinated with that Department's Private
Investment Fund (FIP) and Industrial Finance Fund (FFI).
51.       The FFAP was created by Law 5 of 1973 to increase short-, medium-,
and long-term lending by the banking system to the agricultural sector. Under
this law, banks other than those specializing in agricultural lending are
required to invest a percentage (currently 17%) of their total loan placements
in 8% agricultural bonds issued by BOR. These funds are then used to finance
the FFAP, from which banks, including those exempt from compulsory bond
purchases, are permitted to rediscount loans made to the agricultural sector.



- 15 -
52.       The Agricultural Credit Department has been increasing its staff,
both numerically and in qualifications, to meet the increasing volume of work
of the FFAP, whose approved medium- and long-term credits increased from
Col$ 1.4 billion (US$46.7 million) during the first nine months of 1975 to
Col$ 2.2 billion (US$73.3 million) during the same period of 1976. The
Development Credit Department has been the channel for seven Bank loans wllic
have been made since 1964 to finance industrial development. It has been
hampered in the past by loss of staff to private industry but has recently
regained its strength. Moreover, under the Bank's Sixth DFC Loan signed on
Mlarch 31, 1976 BOR committed itself to maintaining a staff in the Development
Credit Department adequate in numbers and quality for carrying out Bank-
financed projects. A Bank-assisted training program for the Department's
staff, begun under the Fifth DFC project, is being continued under the Sixth
DFC project.
53.       Credit to sub-borrowers would be channeled through any financial
institution wishing to participate in the project that has signed a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with BOR. It is anticipated that
the principal participating institutions would be Caja Agraria, INCORA,
Banco Cafetero, Banco Ganadero, Corporacion Financiera de Fomento Agrope-
cuario y Exportaciones (COFIAGRO),and two commercial banks that have ex-
pressed interest in participating--Banco de Bogota and Banco de Colombia.
The DFC's and the Corporacion Financiera Popular might also participate. It
would be a condition of loan effectiveness that BOR had signed a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank with Caja Agraria. (Section 6.01 of
draft Loan Agreement.)
54.       It would be the responsibility of BOR to insure that investments
financed by subloans under the project are for the purposes authorized and
that they are technically, financially, and economically sound. During
negotiations, assurances to this effect were obtained. In order to dis-
charge this responsibility, BOR would require all participating institutions
to follow evaluation procedures for subloans satisfactory to it. (Section
3.01 and Schedule 5 of draft Loan Agreement.)
55.       All subloans would be based on detailed investment plans, which
would include cash flow projections and estimates of expected changes in key
production coefficients. Small farmers would be assisted by government
agencies and by the technical staff of the participating institutions in the
preparation of farm development plans, while applications for subloans from
larger farmers and for agro-industrial development would be supported by farm
plans or feasibility studies prepared by consultants at the sub-borrower's
cost. In all subloans, the development plan or feasibility study would form
part of the subloan application. It would be a condition of participation in
the project for each participating institution to have a technical staff that,
in the opinion of BOR, is of sufficient size and training to carry out their
assigned responsibilities to help prepare and evaluate investment plans.
(Schedule 5 of draft Loan Agreement.)



- 16 -
56.       In order to further help BOR discharge its responsibility for the
quality of project investments, BOR would establish within six months of
loan signing a monitoring system, satisfactory to the Bank, on at least
5% of sub-borrowers' investment plans. BOR would collect technical and
financial data on such sample investment plans in sufficient measure to
facilitate an evaluation of the overall success of the project in achieving
its objectives. (Section 3.03 of draft Loan Agreement.)
Relending Rates, Terms, and Rediscounting Procedures
57.       Participating institutions would make medium- and long-term subloans
for crop and livestock development and machinery contractors, and these would
be rediscounted by BOR in accordance with FFAP rates and rediscount margins
currently in force. Subloans for agro-industry investments would be redis-
counted by BOR in accordance with FFI and FIP rates and rediscount margins
currently in force. BOR would be permitted to vary the rediscount margins
between the percentages of the subloans to be financed by the Bank and 100%
in the light of Government policy and the demand for funds by the banking
system. The initial rates would be as follows:
Category of        Interest Rate   Percent of Subloan         Rediscount Rates to
Sub-borrower      to Sub-borrower     Rediscounted        Participating Agencies (%)
Minimum  Effective           Current       Current
%        %      Minimum    Range         Range         Maximum
Small commercial
farmers           15      17-18     39       65-85      12.25-13.00        13
Other farmers and
machinery
contractors       15      18-19     37       65-85      12.25-13.00        13
Agro-industries     18 /1             60       60-85      14.00-23.00        23
/1   As of November 30, 1976, FFI rates ranged between 22% and 24% per annum
in Bogota, Medellin and Cali and from 18% to 20% per annum elsewhere;
FIP rates ranged between 23.5% and 26% per annum in Bogota, Medellin and
Cali and from 20% to 23% per annum elsewhere. Within each locality for
FFT interest rates vary according to whether the assets of the borrowers
are greater or less than Col$ 5 million (US$167,000) and for FIP according
to the term of the loan.
58.       Effective interest rates on loans to farmers would be higher than the
basic rates shown in the above table, since borrowers would be required under
FFAP procedures to prepay interest and to pay a 1% fee for life insurance on



- 17 -
their loans. In addition, farmers with total assets over Col$500,000
(US$15,000) would be charged, under FFAP procedures, a 1% fee which is used by
the Government to finance the provision of technical assistance to farmers
with total assets under Col$500,000. The effective interest rates are cur-
rently 17%-18% for farmers with total assets under Col$500,000 and 18%-19%
for farmers with total assets over that level. In addition, farmers in the
smaller category would be eligible to receive financing for 85% of their
investment plans, compared to 75% for those in the larger category.
59.       It has been agreed that the Bank, the Government or BOR may request
a review of subloan interest rates and other lending and rediscount terms
whenever they believe changes in economic conditions make it advisable to
do so. If, witiLn 60 days of the initiation of the review, agreement could
not be reached between the Government, the Bank and BOR on any of the lending
or rediscount terms, BOR would cause participating institutions to suspend
commitment of subloans until agreement had been achieved. (Section 3.04 of
Loan Agreement.)
60.       Repayment terms for sub-loans would be flexible and would reflect
the forecast cash flows of the investments to be financed. Terms would range
from two to 15 years and would include grace periods of one to five years.
61.       It is estimated that during the 1977-79 commitment period of the
loan the average rate of inflation in Colombia will about equal the effective
interest rates now charged to farmers. However, given Colombia's record of
relative price stability (the rate of inflation averaged 8% per year from
1950 to 1972) and the aggressive stabilization measures which the Government
is implementing, it appears likely that over the longer term the rate of
inflation will be below the rate of interest on the sub-loans. We therefore
consider it likely that the effective interest rates during the next three
years will be about zero in real terms, and positive thereafter.
Disbursements
62.       The Bank will disburse against certificates of expenditure for 39%
of the amount of sub-loans to small commercial farmers, 37% of the amount of
sub-loans to larger commercial farmers, and 60% of the amount of sub-loans to
agro-industrial enterprises. The remainder of each sub-loan will be financed
by the resources of the financial intermediary and BOR, with the proportion
between the two sources depending upon BOR's prevailing rediscount policy for
the particular type of investment.
Procurement
63.       International competitive bidding is not contemplated in view of the
fact that procurement will be in small lots spread over a four-year investment
period. Land development would be undertaken on contract by small local con-
tractors or by the sub-borrowers themselves. Machinery, equipment, and other
goods required for development would be obtained through existing commercial



- 18 -
channels, which are satisfactory. Most foreign suppliers are well represented
in Colombia, competition is keen, and service facilities are widespread and
adequate. Whenever the cost of machinery and equipment in a single investment
exceeded US$150,000 BOR would ensure that at least three bids would be obtained
by sub-borrowers.
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The project is of high priority because it would reduce constraints
imposed on the Colombian agricultural sector by the lack of long term credit
for investments as well as lack of small farmers' savings. Removal of these
constraints should increase output, which would lead to higher exports, in-
creased employment, and improvement in the incomes of the poorer classes in
Colombia. The overall economic rate of return is estimated at approximately
28% (22% for livestock, 38% for crop farms and 25% for agro-industries). If a
shadow exchange rate 20% higher than the existing exchange rate is assumed--a
figure calculated from tariffs on imports and subsidies on exports--the econ-
omic rate of return is about 49%. The use of a shadow wage rate (0.7 times
the nominal wage for unskilled labor and 0.8 times the nominal wage for semi-
skilled labor) because of the unemployment in the rural sector raises the
economic rate of return to about 57%.
65.       The value of the estimated annual incremental output of rice, cocoa,
soybeans, sugarcane, cotton, fruits and vegetables, beef, and milk, would be
US$86 million when fully developed and valued at 1975 international prices.
Increased rice and beef production should lead to higher exports, as also
cotton, whether directly as cotton fiber or indirectly as cotton textiles.
This would help export diversification. Increased production of cocoa and
soybeans would save foreign exchange as these commodities are now imported.
The net foreign exchange savings of the project at full development would
be about US$50 million a year. The other products are mainly for domestic
consumption, though panela production would substitute for sugar which in
turn can be exported. The increase in production is necessary in order to
meet the increased demands forthcoming due to the expected rise in per capita
income. Furthermore, the expanded production of basic grains, fruits and
vegetables, and milk should help to relieve the protein and calorie shortages
of the deficient groups.
66.       The project would provide additional wage employment on farms and
in agro-industries for roughly 8,000 people. It would also increase the
amount of family labor used on about 5,000 small farms, thus lowering under-
employment. Furthermore, it would provide employment in industries supplying
goods to the farms and agro-industries.
67.       Execution of the project entails no special risks other than the
possibility that interest rates and rediscount margins might require adjust-
ments to insure that financial intermediaries have sufficient incentive to
expand agricultural credit in line with Government objectives.



- 19 -
PART V:   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Banco de la
Republica, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of the draft reso-
lution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for
loans for agricultural and industrial credit projects. Special conditions
of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex IV. It would be a special
condition of effectiveness that the Borrower would have signed a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank with the Caja Agraria.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI:   RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 16, 1976






ANNEXI
Page I of 4
COLCOSIA             - SOCIAL. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KR?)----------------
------------                                  COLONElA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19101
TOTAL      1138.9                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      227.8                       1960       1970    FSTIMATE          TORKEY          BRAZIL         MEXICO-
GNP PER CAPITA IUSSa                       210.0   '   340.0       554.0              1480.0       5140.0      780.0
POIPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)              15.4        20.6        2.3.8              35.7        92.8         50.14
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          114.0       18.0        21.0               146.0       11.0        26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND             .        92.0        99.0                67.0        66.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUISAND         146.1       14143       31.0                140.6       38.4        143.8
CRImE DEATH RATE PER THnUSAND           114.7       11.0         8.8               114.14       9.9         10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATF I/THOU)         I00.0 L      7O.OLB        .                14 5.0      1 10.0       6 8.5
LIFlE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YES I        514.7      58.5        60.9                514.1       59.7        61.0
GROSS RFPROOUCTION RATE                 3.2         3.2         3.1                2z.6 4.b-    2.6         3.1
POPULATTON GROWTH RATF (8)
TOTAL                                   2.9         2.9         2.6                 2.5         2.9         3.14
URBAN                                   6.0 /b       5.~        1 b 4.9             L..2        5.0         9. 5
URBAN POPU&ATION il OFE TOTAL)           53.0 L.     60.0        63.0                31.2        56.0        99.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         46.6        44.66       44.1                41.9        42.0        46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                         50.4         S    5.4   S2.7                53.9        55.0        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                        3.0         3.0         3.2                4.3         3.0         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       1.I 1.                   .                   .90810
ECOINOMIC DERENnENCY BRiTID3               1.:8 0j     1.60       o 1.69             lo:19~       1.5         2.0
EAMTLY PLANNING
ACCFPTORS (CUM4ULATIVE, THOU)           0.5       306.9        955.1                 .        250.0        5 5. 5
USERS (B OF MAPRIED WOMEN)                ..                   31.0                 a.2         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LA9RP FOPCE (THOliSANDI          51000       6200.0      6800.0             t4500.0/d   29600.0     t1000.0
LABRII FO,RCE IN AGRI(CULTURE (8)        47.0 j       39.0          ..67.0                       44.0         39.5
UNMPTDI nFE LABOR FORCE)             8.0         7.0        1.340.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OP PRIVATE INCOME PECDr RY-
HIGHEST  5SB OP HOUSEHOLDS             41.7 L4.f   31.9 ~         .32.8/f                      35.0/ps     37.8
HIGHEST 208 OF HOUSFHOLDS              a?.! 4      60.1 L         .60.                         62.0    ~   63.2
LOWEST   208 OP HOUJSEHOLDS              2.1 gL     3.5 ~         .2.9                          3 0 7i      4.2
LnWR      0   PHUEOD                    6.8 ZU      10.1 L        .9. 4 L                      1 0.0 1ra    3.:2
DISTRIBUiTION OF LANn OWNERSHIP
I DrWNEn BY TOP 108 OP OWNERS              s..                     o.0               53.0        45.0
8 OWFND RY SMALLEST IDE OWNERS.                          .        0.?12               0.9          1.5
HEALTH AND N1ITRI'ION
PUPULATION PFR PHYSICITAN P_           2400.0      2160.0       2180.0L            2220.0      1950.0      14430 
POPUILATION PER NRSI;NG P ~~5          3520. 0L         ..     1500.0/c            1890. 0 L   3 3300.0 1b ~1570.0
POPULATION PEE HOSPITAL oTn             580.0       450.0        50D.OZ7c           490.0       2 60. 0     930.0
PRP CAP ITA SUPPLy, OP -
CALOqRIs IX OF RIOUIRE'4ENTS1          94.0        97.0        95.01              110.0       109.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PIP DAY)                50.0         51.0       5 1.0 .             78.0        P-4.0       6S. 0
-OP WHIrH ANIMAL AND PtULSE          2R.0 ~h     2q. 0/a                         2 2. 0h     39.0        28 .0 /.
DEATH RATE 1/THOUj) AGeS 1-4              16. 3        8.4          .                 15. 0 ~.9. 8
EDUCATI ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT 9ATIn
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         T7.0/i     102.0        L 14.0/Re a        tI.0A        8T.0        106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       12.0        23.0 I      2 8.0 t__           28. 0       28.0 /      23.0
YEARS OP SCHOOLING PPOVIDEn
(FIRST AND SECOND) LEVEL I             1 1.0        11. 0       1 1. 0             11t.0       13.0        1 2.0
VOCATIO)NAL INROLLMENT
(8 OP SSEONI)ARY)                      31:0 j      20. 0_1A    19.0 1              14.0        17.0        24.0
AD LTLTERACY RATE (8)                    ..        73.0        74 0k               501..      6.0          7.
HOUSING
PERSONS P~ ROOM (AVERAGE)                   .            ..                            1. 9        1.0         2 .2
OCCUPIED IWELLINCS WITHOUT
PIP~n WATER I I)                       59.0o/Ok       ...64. 0                                 73.0D1!      61 .oA!
ACCESS Tnl ELECTRICITY
(T OP ALL DWELLINGSl                   47.01!         .           .                41.0        48.0         59.0
RURAL DWPLI INGS CONNECTED
TO FLECTPICITY (X)                      B.0L0                                      I .  8. 0     8.0        28.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           139.0       135.0       120.0                89.0        60.0       276.0
PASSENGFP CAPS (PER THOU PO)P)             7.01!      i1. 0       14.0                 4.0        2 5.0       2 5.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             21414.0     414.0      1499.0               24 7.0      491 .0      567.0
NEWSPRINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)                  2.14        2 .8        1.8                 0. 7        2. 7        3. 1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVRRSE



ANNEX i
Page 2 of 4
NOTrES
Unless otherwise noted, Asia for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee n 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Eationate betee
19 73 andI1975.
-*  Macten has been selected on an objective country bec..aus    Colombia is now is the stage of economic development that Menico was in ten years ago         Both
countries am   at a GDP growth rate of ahoot 7 peccant and at a substantial reduction of n-sployaeent.
COLOMBIA              1960    Ia  Registered only,    lb   1951-64,   Ic   1964,   Id  Bogota only;    Le   1963,   If  E-     fta.sclly active Population,  aj  1965,
lb  1961-63,    /L  7-11 yoara of age,     /Ia Total secondary includes teac.her training at the third level,     lb  Water piped
inside.
1970    la   Rate based on burial permits,     lb  1964-70;    it  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ove     to total labor force,
Id  tromomically active po,pulation,    /e   1964-6b,   If  6-10 and 11-lb years of age respectively,       a   Total secondary
includes teacher training at the third level.
MOST RECENT EBSThIATE      I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force,        lb  1971,   I    1972,   Id   1969-71
average, Ic 7-11 years of Age, If Total secondary inolsdeu teaTchr training at the third lcvl.
TURKEY               1970     Ia  Icludes 17 Eaastrn pevi-oca,       lb  1965-67,    Ic  Ratio of Population aeder 15 ond 65 and avr to labor forco ago 15
yearn and ner;     /d  15 years and over, encludee unmployad,       /e  Registered Only,     If  Dinpna.ble Inom,        g  In-
cludingasistant.nnraen and nidwiv-n,       1h  1964-66;    /i  7-11 yearn of age,    j,)  Porn ons sin year  old and Over who
teltecnus  aesthat they can read aedwie
BR.AZ IL             1970     Iat-nuically active population,         lb  Hospital personnel.     Ic  12-li yearn Of age,    Id   Is-dn only.
MEXICO                1970    t   1964-66,    lb  Innide only.
October 12. 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INICATORS
Lan.d urea Ithna kan2)                                                              Population per n-r-ng perso      - Population davided by number of practicing
Total -Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                     sale and fesale graduate   --reu, "trained' or "oerrifled" nuse, and
Aai.-Most recent estimate of agricultural area     sad temporarily or            auxiliary personnel with training at xnperuece.
Permanently for crrpn, pasture, earket 4 kitches gardens or tc lie                Panplattan par hoapital bed - Population divided by nunh- Of hospital beda
fallow.                                                                             available in public and p-utar    genra1 and specialieod hospital and
rehabilitrationnntr        ncxluden ns fostg hoeu and eatablishnenta for
GNP Par ..pit. (US$) -GNP per -apita cstmats at -ctr-t narknL pricey,                 cuatodial and preventive care
calculated by the ae     canvernion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75           Per capita supply of calorien (7. Of reguiremento) - Conputed fron energy
basis), 1960, 1970 sod 197 5data.                                                   eqsi-al-t of net food nupplies avilable Io country Per -aplr         per day.
availble npplin onupria  domscir u            ed pronedon,inprt .i.. anai-
PIolcinad vital atatincfto                                                            and oh angesin stack, nornpplr        nld      nmlfe.nos            un
Poo1Nlaion i(mid-yr. nillion) - An Of July first     ii not avalable,                 ties used is food pro....unig and lossen In distribution, reqoironents
averges of two end-your estimates, 1960, 1970 and 1975 data                         were estinated by FA0 honed on physIological nee ds for sorma     ac.tivity
and health consider-ng e-irosental tenperntare, body ceights, age and
Population density - per nsqare kon - Mud-yoa    population Per square kiln-          sen distributions of Population, and allowing 107. for waste at hous-
norer fOSS he_tre) Of tatal ar.a.                                                   bold leve.
1poolation deatyv- poT....are kos of anric. land - Computod as above for            Pee caPita supply of croreln foran      Por day) - PrOteic  -cntou  of per
agricultural land only                                                              raptia net supply of food Per day, net supply of food in def-nd a
above, reqorenenta far all --tnrr-es       stablinhed ky USIA E-oroce
Vital statistics                                                                      Research Servces apeoide for a miolsa        allownce of 60 gras of tntal
Crude birth rate per thousand - AnacaI live births per thousand of mid-               protein per day, and 25 grano of aia       and polae protein, of ahlch
yea   population; ton-your arithmetic avergas esdlig in 1960 and 1970.              15 gras   should be anisal protein, th.es   stondards are lowr than those
and fiv-year av-rgo ending is 1975 for most re...ot o-ti-ate.                       af 75 gram   of total prutoin and 23 nravs of animal protoci as an
Crude death rote per thousand - Asn...l deaths per thousand of nid-yea-               avrage for tho wand, proposed by FAO so the Third World '<-d 9S-rvy.
population, ten-year arith- ICt a-eragos ending it 1960 and 1970), and            Per capitaP prti      Hl 2  ra ansimaland. P"'un- Proei       copply of food
fiv--year aerage ending in 1975 for moatrecent estimate,                            derived frnaiasandPule            Is ernsper'day.
Infant esrtl    ry rar   (Ithos) - Ann_al deaths of -vince  -,der vn nea     of     p~,fta_Lhra_e  /frhol_ugos1-4 - Annual de-ths per ebhoa-d In ago crop
aeprthousand live births                                                        1-4 years. to; ,hld-c So Lhl    aca orocP, '<secured an an    -dicoLor 01
Life cpectancy at hirth (y-) - Average number of year       Of Ief remining           -a1notrition
at birth, usually fine-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
develping cannries.                                                               Edn..arion
Gross reproductio     rate -,Averge sober of live daughtes- aonwill                 Adjuated erolluent ratio - primary school - Enro1lnnet Of all ages as
hea ,in h., noma    reproduciv    Per iod if she enperienro     present age-        percentage of primacy school-age population, includes cbtldren aged
upcfcfertIlIty  totes, asAlly finn-ya     avrages ending in 1940,              6-11 years but adjuicd for different lengths of pricary ndo..ation,
1970 and 1975 far develoin~g coun triens.                                           far istrife    with universal dnuation, enrol1nent may xuoed 1007.
Pocul 0dm growth rote fE)- cto         -Cnpond annual growh -tacs Of aid-             since n-    pupils are below or abv     the effu-1o1 srbol age.
yerppltIon for 195i-60, 19601-70. and I970-75.                              Adjunted enrllment ratio-secondar, school - Conpotod as above,
.Peplaio..  -rowh rat   i) - ura        aptod lik     growth rate of toa               econdary edocatron reqairosat least.four years,of approne,dgPvua
pplto,different deiiin         Cf rba  oreas maY affect compara-              instruction, provide   general ,voctional or teacher criion
bili'tyiof dta   mn       ere.                                                      inst rutctins  o  pupIls of 12 to 17 year    of aie, correspondence
Urban pouaIon(        of total) - Ratio of urban to totaI pop.Iati;corses are generally eucluded
different definitions of urban areas cay affect comparability of dato             Years Of schoolingprovided (first and s..cand level) - Total years of
-   g   .. nt ties.                                          ch..l itg        .. .,~~~~~atnacnday  vo, cational Instruction may he par-
Aestucur       (Percent) - Children (0-14 y--r) ,. wokhig-oge (15-bA years).          tiolly or cospleteIy eucluded.
and retired (65 years an d avr) as percentagen Of mid-yoar popolati-n.            Vocational enrollment fT of seco,ndary) - VocatIional   -ntirutions
Alle dooosdemcy ratio - Ratio of pepulatien under 15 and 65 and over to                include technical, industrial or other programs which operate
those of ages 1) throu.gh 64.                                                       independently ar as departne-ts of secondary institutions.
E_omic dependency rotio      - Ratia of population under 15 and 65 and ovr          Adult literany rate (%) - Literate adults (ablo to read and write) as
to the labo   frea in age group of 15-64 year.                                      percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
Pamily planning-acoptora foamulati-e. thou)    C-.Cuultive nmbor af
acceptors of birth-control device      unduer auspices of national family         Bosm
Planning program  nice Ince.ption.Pesn                                                    per roan fuvrsgee    - Averago number of persons per roan in
famil elanina- usrs f7. of marriedcan      -' Prcoutages of married              occPied convntional dwellings in urban ara,dwellings onelade
women of child-bearing age (15-44 yearn) who cue birth-conrol1 dentuen              oon-perma..ent structures and smOccuplod paris.
to all married wume   In san   age grosp.                                         Occupied dwellsg  wihotpiped water fT)-         cespied c-ncetional
dweligs in urbanand rural areas without inside or outside piped
Epanloynent                                                                           wae     aIlties an percentage nf all occu.pied dwellings..
Total labor force (thousand) - Econmically active persona, in-lnding                Accs to.    ectricity f% Cialdelns              Cnentional dwellings
armd forces and unemployed but ...oluding hoswvs           tudents,  tcr ,ith ole-tricity in lInIng quarters As percent of total dwelliogs In
deinition    in various countries are not comparable,                               urbnad rura      areas."
Labar freIn agriculture T)-Agricoltural labor force fin farming,                    Rural dwlings connected is el1curioity Cl)        -Coputed as above fur
frsr,hunting and fishing) as percentag     of -tot alibor force,               rural dwellings only.
tneplye(7 of labor force) -Unmlydaeuulydfinda                       esn
who are able and willing to cake a Job, out of a Jab on a give        day,        Consutmoro
remained our ef a Job, and seeking winch far a specified minimum Period           Radia receivers (per thou papl - All tYPos of receivers far radio broad-
not ascending one wee; may mat be comparable between countries due to               cos ts to general public per thousnand of Population, eacludes
differentd dfinit'ions of unemployed and nourc e of data, e.g., employ-             unlicensed retainrer   in countries add in yearn ah.n registration of
near office ntraisninctn  aupla     ven    -oplar     ueployment insurace,          radio ..L. wan in effec, data for recent years nay not b.e cmparable
sine mot countries abolished licensing.
Incom    distribution  - Percentage of private income (both in cas h and bind)      Psasenger cara (per thou pop) -Passenger car      comprise motor cars
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, Poorest 20%, -ed Poorest 40% of                sea ting lea. than eight Persons, esciodes ambulances, hearana and
houaehnlds.                                                                         milItary vehicles.
Electricity (khblyr per cap) - Annual conuaption of industrial, cn--
Ditrcibution of land ownrship - Percentagen of land owed by wealIthiest               mercia1, public and private el.ctricIty is kilowatt hours per capita,
107% and Poorest 10% of land ownrs,                                                 generally b.asd on Production data, wIthout allowance for loss.es in
grids hue allowing for imports and exp.r ts of electric ity.
Neolth and Nstrition                                                                News.prnt (halve per cap) - Per caPita annual -onoption in kilograms
Population Per physician - Population divded by number of practicing                  estimated from dometic nenductio I    lu   nor immre    ntFsn.__,s_



ANInI I
Page 3 of 4
(In MLIlions of US 0011cr.)
Ac cul                  Prs~~~~~~~~~~~~eatd    1967-69-    1974-      1977-
197   A 17         194        17        F97           1960        17       1977       1980       1974        1977        1980
Average
1974 b6..ae cad            WOO                      Avermse Amomal rrowth ERate             As Percent of GDP
National Accounts
Cress ~aetc Prod~cc                  8526       11938      12540       13012       14621       17904.      6.6        5.2        7.0       100.0        99.3      100.7
Goina frm Terma:f Trade 7+ ~                    -                          ~        .j         *.W..                                                      0.7     -   0.7
Gross Domestic Inco                       111116     116 flI     -12340      A!!        I71 Ya      17774        7.4        5.5       6.9       1O00.0      TO-,7      1T55
Ilport (mdkc. RFS)                         1311       1637        1919        1782        2133       2912        5.6        5.4        9.6       14.5        14.5        15.8
Emort.         (Import Canscitv)           1247       1799        1896        1772        2391       2802        7.2                   5.4       15.1        16.         15.9
Resource Gap                                 6.4    -   162     -   77          10     -   258         10         -          -          -         0.6      -  1.8          -
Comsauptimn Expendit.res                   6498        9555       9349        9917       11224      13646        6.3        6.3        6.7        74.6       76. 2       76.8
Investisent    1   (Incl. Stocks)          17 2       2048        3114        2808        3244       4138       10.2        1.4        8.5       24.8        22.0        23.2
Domstic Savings                            1678       2210        3190        2796        3502       4128       11.3        3.2        5.6       25.4        23.8        23.2
National Savings                           1594       1999        5022        2658        3349       3940       11.2        3.5        5.6       24.1        22.7        22.2
Nwehan"oo Trade  ~     ~          ~         Annaa Dteat Cerumi Price.                                                                 A. Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                             290        373         525         488         780       1207       10.4       14.1      15.7        34.8        37.4        34.0
Intermdiate Gdood   (8-d. Fuels)          25.4       453         811         793         992       1685       21.3        6.9       19.3       53.7        47.5        47.4
Fuels and Related Mmterials                 3           3          6          31         11a        373       12.2         -       46.7         0.4         5.6        10.5
of which,   Petroleum,                (-)        C-)        (-)         (   31)    (118)       (373)          -          -      (46.7)         -       (5.6)       (10.5)
Conuanion Goods~~                          61        153         167         149         I"~f       289       18.3        5.6       13.4       li.t         9.5         8.1
Total March. Imports (CIF)                608        982        1509        1461        2088       3554       16.4       11.4       19.4      100.0       100 0       100.0
Exorts
Primary Product. (Excl. Poels)           418         949        1001        1099        1868       2354       15.7       23.1        8.0       67.0        72.9        63.1
Fuels and Related Materials                71         54          95          87         102        167        5.0        2.4      17.9         6.4         4.0         4.5
of Whicb,   Petroleum                 (   6)    (   27)     (    4)        -           -          -           -          -          -      (0.3)           - 
Manufactured Goods                        117        260         398         372         593       1206       22.7       14.2       26.7       26.6        23.1        32.4
Total March. Export. (FOB3)              6=         1263        1494         558      -2763       _32_        16.2       19.7       13.3      100.0      _100.0      -i
Tourtsm and Border Trade                   -         -           --                      -          -           -          ----
Merchandise Trade Indices
Export Price lod"n                       29.3       86.1       100.0        96.2       137.2      156.0
Imtport Price Index.                     37.8       86.5       100.0       112.8       131.2      163.3
Term. of Trade lode.                     77.5       99.5       100.0        85.3       104.6       95.6
Exports Volume, Index                   84.7        98.7       100.0       109.6       120.6      154.7
Valos Added by Sector                             Annual Data at 1974 -Pric.s end Exchange Rates               Average Annual Groth Rates            As Percen  of Total
Agriculture                              2589       3168        3320        3460        3833       4501        4.2        4.9        5.5        28.3       28.2        27.0
Industry end Mining                      1656       2467        2600        2678       2993        3864        7.8        4.8       8.9        22.2        22.4        23.2
Services                                 3694       5391        5803        5975       6775        8290        7.8        5.3        7.0       49.5        49.8        49.8
Total                                    7939      11026       11723       12113       1 601      16655        6.7        5.1        7.0      100.5       100.0       100.0
Public Finance
(Gentral Govo-mst)
Current Ro...ipto                       744       1174        1186        1460       1652        2041        8.1       11.7        7.3        9.5        11.3        11.4
Gurrent Expenditures                    471        669         632         709         819        949        5.0        9.0        5.0         5.0        5.6         5.3
Budgetary Services                      273        505         554         751         833       1092       12.5      14.6         W-.~     --4. Z- .!7 !             T
Other Public Sector Savings             782         13         120         110         117        215      -28.5      - 0.9       22.3         1.0        0.8         1.2
Public Sector Investment              1101         933        1030         948        1389       2023      - 1.2       10.5       13.3        8.2         9.5        11.3
1965-       1970-       1973-      1975-                                                 At end 19   P and ER-US$ Million
Selected Indicators                                  1970        1973        1975        1980                   Detail on public Sector        First Pla.   7. of Total
Investment Progtram             (1968/72   -1973/75
Calculated from 3-year averaged data)
Average I00R                                      3.17        3.11        4.28        3.32                  Social Sectors                    26.2       37.7
Import Elasticity                                 1.16        0.19        0.88        1.45                  Agricult.re                      23.8        11.3
Marginal Domestic Savings Rats                     -           -           -           -                    Industry and Mining              12.4         7.6
Margimal National Savings Rate                    0.14        0.12        0.24       0.26                   Power                                         8.6
__________________________________________________________________________________rTransport    nandoCoununications   331.6       221.
Other                              6.0       12.9
Labor Force and Outot Per Worker                             Total Labor Force                                  Total Expenditures               100.0      100. --
In Millionsa          7~ of Total          1964-73
12§        1973        1964       1973     Growth Rate
Financinat
Agriculture                           2.427      2.057        47.3        30.2     -   1.9
Industry                              0.958      1.212        18.7        17.8         2.7                  Public Sector Savings            69.4        70.7
Service                               1.749      3.542        34.0       5.iL        8.2...                 Program Aid Counterpart           0.8         1.1
Total                                 5.134      6.812       100.0       100.0        3.2                   Foreign Project Aid              29.8        28.2
100.0       100.0
Value Added per Worker (1974 Prices and Rachanne Rate")                ____________________________
In US Dollars         % of Avercee          1964-73
l64        I=          1964       1973     Growth Rate
Agriculture                              791      1329        66.4        88.4         5.9
Industry                                1610      2236       135.2       148.7         3.7
Service                                -1516      1355       127.3        901      -1.2
Total                                  1191       1504       100.0       100.0         2.6



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 4
BALANICE OF PAYMENTS. EXTENAL ASSISTANCE AND DOBT
(Aounts i1, Million    of US Dollars at Curren-t Nric.).
Avg Annual 
Actual                                Estimated                              Projected                            Gro.eth kin
1970   -     1911         1q72         1973         1974-         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980     1976-1980
Su-r     Science of Payments
Exporto (Intl. NFl)                 1000          974         1207         1548         1858         1999         2661         3136         3413         3939         4 577         14. 5
-Impots. (Intl. Nfl)                 1149         1285         1236         1424         2043         2010         2317         2798         3417         3933         4592          18 6
Resourre Bal.nCe (S-M)             -  6         - 311        -29            124        -185         -11            3            338        -   4             6        -- 15           -
Interestt(Net)                     -64          -56          -63          -85          -82          -102         -117         -116         - 112        -134         -158            798
Direct I-netnent Incm              -68          -70          -73          -74          -60          -72          -83          -95            110        -128          -148          15 6
Other PFccor Service In-m
(Net)                           -48          -55              61       -56           -55             61        -71          -85          -99          -1153          129         16 1
Current Trren..frs (Not)              27           34           35           35           15           75           84           94          105           116          127         10 9
Science on Curret Accunt.          -3_02        -_453       1-191         -_ 56        -_322        -1L71          157          16         -Z230        -_253         -_323-
Privote Direct Investment             39           40           17           23           36           15           20           25           30            35           45         22 5
Public MSLT Loans
DIshboreeents                      235          222          351          414          364          365          414          372          528           582          714         14 6
-Renasyoet.                          75        -__92        -9           -__132       -206         -139         -162         -164         -234         - 278           326         23 0
No t Disburameenc                    160          130          255          282          138          226          772          188           294          304          388          9 3
Disbnrsnts                         128          145          139           60           55           93           -            -            -             -            --
-RePaymets                        -67         -79           -84          -58          -58             83------
Nnt Diebursent.                       61           66           55            2        -               15 0 
Cupit.1 Trennac.rio..nscel.           36          135           38        -38          -253            85------
Change in Nec R..e-ve                  6           82        -164         -213           389        -165------
(-Increase)
Grat and Loa    C.aitmete                                                                                                                              Actual                      intimated
Official Geanco and                                                                                                                1970      1971     1972      1973      1974      1975
Grn--like
Debt end Debt
Public MSLT Loe..eric
IBRD                               109          153           74          162            5           88     Public Debt
IDA-                                      -            -            -             -                  -        Ott. & Dm6b       1249 9    1385.6   1647.8    1936 0    2101 1    23144
Other                               -            -            -            -            --
COthe ,sqaltlnrl-                                42           41           29            64           -       Int. on Pub
Goncrumeuts               ~~~~~123     110          114           49            52           63         Debt             43 6      48 8      57 9      70 4     103 2     114 6
Supplie.n                          117           35           32           2 8          46           73       Repayments on
Fi--cie1 Icutitutiono               19           38           91          190           53          143         Pub. Debt         75.0      92 0      95 9    131. 5    206 2     138 1
Sondo                               -           -             -            45           -            -        Tutel Pun.
Public Loans n.e.i.-                             -- -                                    8-                     Debt Sort        118.6     140.8     153 8    209 9     309 4     213 1
Tuto1 Public 1&LT L-av               350          378          357          503          232           367      Other Debt
Ierv   (Net)     112 3    133 1     155 1     126 6     1186      1102
Total Debt
Actual Debt Outstading ou lDtnb-r 31. 1975 1/Sert                             (Net)     230.9     273 9     308.9    336 5     4280      3 63 3
Dinbur-d Oc1y                                                B-cet  ude  oc Emputt
External Debt                                                                                                   PubODbt Se-           11 9      14 5      12 7      136       16 7      127
World Bank                                              633 4                     27.4                        Total Debt S-rv       23.0      28 1      25 6      21.7      23 0      18 2
IDA                                                     22.6                       1.0                        TMD54irsc
Oth-r Iltil.teral                                      135.1                       5.8                          Invet. Inc.         29.9      35 3      31 6      26 5      26.3      21 8
G.v    -at.                                            911.9                      39.4
SuPpplIers                                             169.3                       7.3                        Average Term    of
risnecial Icetitution.                                 369.9                      16.0                          Public Debt
3ood.                                                    50.9                      2.2
Publici Debts.   .i                                     21.3                       0.9                          tnt. en .  Prfior
Tota1lPblitPM6LT Dbt                                  2314.4                     100.0                          YeaDOOMD             4.1       3 9       4 2       4 8       553       5 5
D04D               6 9       7 4      659       8 0      10 7       6 6
IBRD Debt Out cud
Disbur-d           354 1     390.8    453 4     504 5     561 7     633 4
IBRD0 as % Public
Deb,t OhD           283       28 2      275      26 1      267       27 4
IBIDa . .  Public
Debt Service        30 9      29.5      30 9     29.0      24 0      30 2
IDA Debt Out. &
Dinbursd            19.5      19 4      20 9      23 0     22 8      22 6
IDA as . %Public
Debt O61             1 6       1 4       13        1.2      1.1       1.0
IDA as. %PublIc
Debt Service         0.1       0.1       0.1      0 1       0 0       5 0
eNt applicable                                                                             Staff estimete
Ntaalbl                                                                           -Nil orW.gligible
Ne avial     separtely but iucluded in, total-                                          L"e   than belt the smaIsI.    unit sh-.
1/Provisionl



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of October 31, 1976)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year   Borrower                        Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                              607.0     19.5     --
502     1967   Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation         9.0             .3 /1
536     1968   Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply      14.0              .0
575     1968   Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power            18.0              .6
680     1970   Colombia                        Roads            32.0             4.1
681     1970   Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power            52.3              .6
682     1970   Empresas Municipales de Cali    Water Supply     18.5              .8
738     1971   Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply       2:0             .4
739     1971  Colombia                        Agriculture        8.1              .0 /2
740     1971  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    15.0              .5
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply      88.0           38.8
842      1972  Colombia                        Industry         30.0              .5 /1
849     1972   Instituto Colombiane de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation         5.0            4.6
860     1972   Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       9.1            5.1
874     1973   Empresas Publicas de Medellin   Power            56.0            29.7
903     1973   Banco de la Republica           Industry         60.0            13.2
920     1973  Colombia                         Education        21.2            13.8
926     1973   Ferrocarriles Nacionales        Railways         25.0             6.9
971     1974   Colombia                        Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0            6.7
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica            Industry          5.5             2.8
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply      27.0           25.8
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communictions     15.0           10.5
1118    1975  Colombia                         Rural Settlement 19.5            17.6
1163    1975  Colombia                        Agriculture       21.0            20.9
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica            DFC              80.0            80.0
Total                                           1246.2    19.5  284.0
Of which has been repaid                         295.4     1.1
Total now outstanding                            950.8    18.4  284.0
Amount sold                     23.1
Of which has been repaid        18.2               4.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   945.9    18.4
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                               284.0
/1   Undisbursed balance cancelled November 1976.
/2   Fully disbursed November 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1976)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                   Business        Loan    Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board     0.50       -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products    1.98   0.08      2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.        Metal cans       0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture   0.08   0.09      0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment      0.50      -      0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera           Development
Colombiana                       financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera           Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                         financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de           Textiles         1.86   0.27       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Caldas                           financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging      -    1.27      1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de           Warehousing      1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera               Livestock        1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles         5.00    2.60      7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism            -    0.01      0.01
Hotels y Turismo, Ltda.
HOTURISMO
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del       Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                            financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development        -    0.43      0.43
Valle                            financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism         0.23    0.11      0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1976  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism         0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing            -    0.45      0.45
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement          1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement          3.60       _      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                       Mining           6.0       -       6.0
Total Gross Commitments                          24.75  11.43      36.23
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            9.83   5.17     15.00
Total commitments now held by IFC                14.92   6.31      21.23
Total undisbursed                                 6.00   0.03       6.03



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Summarized below is the current status of all loans signed but not
disbursed fully:
1.   Ln No. 502 Irrigation (Atlantico I); US$9 million, June 1967.
Effective date:   November 2, 1967
Closing Date:     original - December 31, 1972
current - December 31, 1975
Physical works have been completed. Delays in project execution
were occasioned by poor selection of areas suitable for irrigation, technical
problems in the construction of irrigation and drainage works, and non-
compliance by contractor with established schedules. Agricultural develop-
ment has also been slow, due to poor project management and lack of adequate
supporting services to the farmer. However, the present INCORA agricultural
team has the potential to develop the project satisfactorily under its less
than ideal circumstances. Agricultural development and reclamation of saline
areas will require two to three years. Disbursement of Loan 502-CO has been
completed.
2.   Ln No. 536 Water Supply (Bogota I); US$14 million, June 1968.
Effective date: August 7, 1968
Closing Date:     original - June 30, 1972
current - December 31, 1975
This loan is almost fully disbursed.
3.   Ln No. 575 Electric Power (Interconnection); US$18 million, December 1968.
Effective date: February 25, 1969
Closing Date:     original - February 29, 1972
current - December 31, 1976
The original project was completed and commercially operational
in 1971. The Bank agreed that an undisbursed balance could be used to finance
a 220 kv transmission line, Guatape - Barrancabermeja. The cost of the line
is estimated at US$7.2 million of which about US$4.1 million represents the
foreign component. Work is substantially completed on the second line.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
4.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:     original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1976
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has experi-
enced considerable cost increases and is still experiencing delays. The
status of the other components of the project is more satisfactory. The
Ministry of Public Works has taken many steps (supported by the Bank) which
have reduced, although not avoided, delays and contractor bankruptcies under
the paving program.
5.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:     June 30, 1977
The project has experienced considerable delay and project costs
are expected to be 35% higher than originally estimated. Work is proceeding
and the first generating units are expected to be put into service in early
1977.
6.   Ln No. 682 Cali Water Supply and Sewerage; US$18.5 million, June 1970.
Effective date:   September 2, 1970
Closing date:     original - June 30, 1974
current - June 30, 1977
As of October 31, 1976, about 95% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to a late project start, but the entire project
is now under execution, and it is expected that construction activities will
be finished by mid-1977.
7.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:     original - March 1, 1975
current - March 1, 1977
As of October 31, 1976, about 80% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to initial management and fiscal problems. A
financial crisis in early 1973 was resolved through higher tariffs and tight
budget control.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
8.   Ln No. 739 Land Settlement Caqueta I; US$8.1 million, May 1971.
Effective date: October 19, 1971
Closing Date:     original - December 31, 1975
current - June 30, 1976
Because of considerable price increases and unexpectedly difficult
physical problems, project objectives were reduced to about 70% of appraisal
targets in August 1973 halfway through the project period. Since then, the
livestock credit program has picked up speed so that the revised goal for this
component should be achieved ahead of time. On the other hand, the road
construction program has fallen far behind schedule although it is now proceed-
ing at an accelerated pace. Despite these problems, the project is making a
substantial contribution to the successful colonization of the Caqueta area.
Project works are completed and loan proceeds are fully disbursed. A second
loan for the project (No. 1118-CO) was signed in June 1975.
9.   Ln No. 740 Telecommunictions II; US$15 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:     December 31, 1976
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been signed and technical
and financial consultants have been retained. Due to initial delays in the
procurement of project equipment, a slippage of up to 18 months in the comple-
tion date of some of the works in the project is now anticipated.
10. Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:     June 30, 1978
Disbursements up to October 31, 1976 amounted to 56% of this loan.
Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel is
the main reason for the project's delay; the previous foreign contractor has
been replaced by another firm which has already made an impressive start. The
progress of the project, however, is endangered by serious financial problems
which are currently the subject of consultations with the Government and the
Borrower concerning necessary corrective measures, including further tariff
increases.
11. Ln No. 842 Development Program and Export Expansion Project; US$60 million,
June 1972.
Effective date: August 24, 1972
Closing Date:     original - December 31, 1974
current - June 30, 1976
The second tranche of US$30 million was canceled. Of the first
tranche, the US$20 million program component was promptly disbursed; the
US$10 million DFC component has now been fully disbursed except for a small
balance which has been canceled.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
12. Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
Construction of drainage facilities and hence disbursements are
lagging far behind schedule primarily due to the poor performance of the
contractor having the major responsibility for the drain construction financed
under this loan. Steps are being taken to replace the contractor with another.
INCORA had been delaying initiation of the agricultural development phase of
the project, which includes land clearing, leveling, and initial preparation,
until the physical works were completed. However, INCORA has now agreed to
expedite this part of the project. Meanwhile, the principal use has been for
livestock. Originally conceived for dry-farming of crops and dairy farming,
INCORA now believes the soils in the area are better than originally classi-
fied and suitable for irrigation in the future.
13. Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:     original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of October 31, 1976, about 55% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to initial serious management problems, but
progress of works has since accelerated.
14. Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:     December 31, 1978
The progress of the work is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages, which means
that filling the Santa Rita reservoir cannot be started before mid-1977,
two years behind schedule. This would be likely to lead to an energy deficit
in the interconnected system of at least 10% from 1978 to 1981.    The revised
project cost estimate is substantially above appraisal estimates, mainly due
to higher costs of the works at El Penol and Guatape.    The Borrower experienced
serious financial problems but as a result of a series of tariff increases, the
company is projected to achieve the covenanted rate of return in 1977.     Finan-
cial gaps, however, remain to be met if the investment program is to be com-
pleted on schedule.
15.  Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:     June 30, 1977
Commitments have proceeded well, and the loan is expected to be
fully committed soon. Disbursements are still behind schedule, but in view
of the present repaid rate of commitment, they should be completed by the
Closing Date.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
16. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:     June 30, 1977
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
and all work has now been suspended pending completion of discussion concern-
ing restructuring the project.
17. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:     original - June 30, 1976
current - December 31, 1977
The Railways received from the Government Col$87.5 million to meet
the operating deficit for 1975. The financial condition of the Railways, how-
ever, continued to deteriorate in the first seven months of 1976, due primarily
to increases in staff costs accompanied by a drop in traffic. The working and
operating ratios deteriorated to 130.9 and 139.1 for the first seven months of
1976, but are expected to improve to 114.4 and 122.0 if the increase in traf-
fic in the months of June and July 1976 continues for the rest of the year.
The track rehabilitation work has progressed, as has procurement, but the
position in regard to derailments and availability of locomotives and rolling
stock continues to be poor.
18. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:     December 31, 1978
The Bank has approved 15 sub-projects. The Bank loan is expected
to be fully committed by early 1977.
19. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:     December 31, 1977
After a slow start due to a change of management in Corporacion
Financiera Popular, the beneficiary institution, commitments moved well and
are now on schedule. The second tranche was released by the Bank in view of
the satisfactory performance of CFP.
20. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:     June 30, 1980
This loan became effective on April 14, 1975 but there have been
substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective. The last subloan
(Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
21. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:     December 31, 1978
This loan became effective on April 14, 1975 and US$4.5 million has
been disbursed. Bid awards for all Bank-financed goods have been approved by
the Bank.
22. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date:   April 1, 1976
Closing Date:     October 31, 1979
This loan became effective on April 1, 1976 after a six-month delay.
Since then, implementation has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time
regained.   Road and bridge construction is underway (85 km have been completed)
and bidding documents for school construction have been prepared.
23. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:     December 31, 1980
This loan became effective on March 30, 1976. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
24. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:     June 30, 1980
This loan was signed on March 31, 1976, and has only recently become
effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
COLOMBIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Banco de la Republica (BOR)
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Beneficiaries:      Public and private financial institutions (FIs) providing
medium- and long-term credit to agriculture and agro-
industries.
Amount:             US$64 million
Terms:               15 years, including 3-1/2 years' grace, at 8.7% interest.
Relending
Terms:
Interest Rates
Rediscount Rates      FIs to
BOR to FIs       Recipients        Maximum Term
Small farmers                   12.25-13%          15% /a         15 years including
5 years' grace
Other farmers and
machinery contractors         12.25-13%          15% /b         15 years including
5 years' grace
Agro-industries                 14.00-23%       18-26% /c         15 years including
5 years' grace
/a   Effective rate of approximately 17-18%.
/b   Effective rate of approximately 18-19%.
/c   Depending on location and size of firm.
Project
Description:      The project would support a three-year lending program
of BOR to assist in the financing of on-farm investments
by commercial farmers and investments in agro-industries.
A US$14 million portion of the loan would be reserved
exclusively for re-lending to small commercial farmers.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Estimated
Disbursements:            FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80       FY81
---- US$ Million -------------
Incremental             3.0      14.5      21.5      14.0       11.0
Cumulative              3.0      17.5      39.0      53.0       64.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      International competitive bidding is not contemplated in
view of the fact that procurement will be in small lots
spread over a four-year investment period. Land develop-
ment would be undertaken on contract by small local con-
tractors or by the sub-borrowers themselves. Machinery,
equipment, and other goods required for development would
be obtained through existing commercial channels, which
are satisfactory. Most foreign suppliers are well repre-
sented in Colombia, competition is keen, and service
facilities are widespread and adequate. Whenever the cost of
machinery and equipment in a single investment exceeded
US$150,000 BOR would ensure that at least three bids would
be obtained by sub-borrowers.
Rate of Return:      28%
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1248-CO dated November 15, 1976.



ANNEX IV
COLOMBIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation: Initiated in March 1974 by agricultural
lending agencies in Colombia--guidelines supplied by Bank during
two project preparation missions--preparation assisted by FAO/CP
mission in November 1974--preparation completed in April 1975 by
Government under supervision of proposed Borrower, Banco de la
Republica (central bank).
(b) Appraisal Mission: Departed April 1975.
(c) Negotiations: Completed December 1976.
(d) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Allocation for Small Commercial Farmers: US$14 million of proposed
loan allocated for relending to small commercial farmers (para. 44).
(b) Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Condition of Effectiveness): To be
signed between the Borrower and Caja Agraria (para. 53).
(c) Monitoring System: Borrower to establish monitoring system satis-
factory to Bank to review and evaluate 5% of sub-borrowers' invest-
ment plans (para. 58).
(d) Review of Lending Terms and Conditions: Bank to initiate with
Government and Borrower a review of sub-loan interest rates and
other relending terms and conditions whenever called for by changed
economic conditions in Colombia (para. 61).






IBRD-3638RI
78-           76             74-           72             70                OCTOBER 1976
A  r Z A N T I                 c E A N
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+                   s,        S0OUTH AMERICAt
S0h. MO                                 *    9 A2
A;Te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h boo4* oApo oopAl ;vo dg 'ot
fl tGDALENA                                      S
df . AR  ' , V do .o W   1 
%^ 81/ _< ~~~~~0OMOnrH.  S UCRE , \
1                I   0XS  / CORDOCA t   ?\J  . * { J4VORTE a   vV E N E Z U E L 'A
/  CORDOBA  it-,
rIOQV A  /^;)T  L I M A  NDER                                  S..
_   ,fol gCollj)/S  f!;jv             I          m_       S    *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt Crrn
IALA
4.t~ {      >o           rencic ~ 1 <& 'p-  C   H'  4C
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       C q   H >   A   D A
Coil ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~vl-c . .4
V~ ~ A, L  T  LIM
O      e O ~~~~~E                 >      /+ M  T 
Is.    CO    O   BA/s/                                                     r     
_ De~po ,                    Inlendencio a boundoH5 pUEIRL
c   c                                                 I
_.   Inenbnl8udnsr; 
* ~ ~ 0   SO0100 5                                           t                       4
-.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
00~~~~~
J,~~~~~~~~a
0-                                      r~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~ 4pO                 O.-
CoIQwOI,onol OMBIA RS
7Eleoron  7ao   1400                                     710m63-



