CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1357-CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 4, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco de la Replblica (hereinafter called the Borrower)
the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various cur-
rencies equivalent to sixty-four million dollars ($64,ooo,ooo), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guar-
antee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 197, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
Section 11.03. Action on Behalf of the Borrower or
Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement,
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor, may be taken
or executed by the representative of the Borrower or the
Guarantor designated in the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee
Agreement for the purposes of this Section or any person
thereunto authorized in writing by him. Any modification
or amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement
or the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of
the Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument executed
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor by the represen-
tative so designated or any person thereunto authorized
in writing by him; provided that such modification or


﻿-3-
amplification is reasonable in the circumstances and will
not substantially increase the obligations of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement or of the Guarantor under the
Guarantee Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Bor-
rower will be inadequate for the fulfillment of its obligations
under Section 3.01 (c) (i) of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantor
undertakes to make or cause to be made arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, to enable the Borrower promptly to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such obligations.


﻿0 -
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, special security from the member concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guar-
antor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equiv-
alent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-6-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under the
laws of the Guarantor, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all action required
on its part in accordance with Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pfiblico of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y
Credito Pfblico
Palacio de Los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustfn
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Alfonso Davila Ortiz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Suitbertus van der Meer
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


