GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Congo,
Congo Wildlands Protection
Project Document
March 1993
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global ernvironment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity. and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
arid the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environmiient
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington. DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 270 (October 1992)a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAR           -      Central African Republic
GEF           -      Global Environment Facility
GET           -      Global Environment Trust Fund
GOC           -      Government of Congo
HPLF          -      Howletts/Port Lympne Foundation
MAB           -      Man and Biosphere
NEAP          -      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO           -      Non-Governmental Organization
PMU           -      Project Management Unit
TSC           -      Technical Steering Committee
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO        -      United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID         -      U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/     The CFA franc is tied to the French franc (FF 1.00 = CFAF 50) which is subject to
a floating exchange rate.






REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Recipient:          The Government of Congo
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, Ministry in charge of
Protected Areas, and Ministry in charge of Science and Technology
Amount:             6.9 million SDR (SUS 10 million)
Terms:              Grant
Financing           GEF           US$ 10.1 million Z/
Plan:               USAID         US$ 2.2 million
Peace Corps  USS 0.4 million
HPLF         US$ 0.2 million
GOC          US$ 1.0 million
Total US$ 13.9 million
Economic Rate
of Return:          not applicable
Maps:               IBRD No. 23525 and 23526
a/    of which a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) of USS 100,000 from the GEF, and a GET
grant of USS 10 million.






CONGO
CONGO WILDLANDS PROTECTION
1.           Background. Congo is a country with great ecological wealth. There are still many
virtually untouched areas with considerable biological diversity and densities of rare wildlife. The
forest covers 65 % of the national territory (342,000 kTn2) and is subdivided into three main areas (the
Congo Basin, the Niari, and the Mayombe-Kouilou). 20% of this forest has standing water during
most of the year (North-East region). The remaining 35 % of the territory is savannah. Congo's
population is approximately 2.6 million, of which 60% is urbanized, which means that rural densities
are generally extremely low.
2.           The Government's environmental strategy has two main orientations: (a) ensure the
rational and sustainable use of the country's productive resources, through the development and
implementation of a nationwide natural resource management plan; and (b) preserve the country's
biodiversity, through the establishment of a network of protected areas. The proposed project will be
the main vehicle for biodiversity conservation, an objective over which national and global interests
converge. The Government is further developing its strategy through two main planlning exercises:
(a) the Tropical Forest Action Plan (TFAP) which began in June 1990 and should be completed by
beginning of 1993; it is being managed by the French Cooperation under FAO's oversight; and (b)
the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) whose preparation began in September 1991 and
which should be completed by mid-1993. The NEAP addresses the country's overall environmental
problems and will incorporate the TFAP's conclusions into its action plan. One of the primary goals
of the NEAP which concerns this project, is to reconmmend the appropriate institutional arrangements
for a permanent structure in charge of national conservation activities.
3.           Although there are I llegally gazetted areas earmarked for conservation, thus far,
conservation initiatives have been limited. The legal statutes of the gazetted areas differ, and none of
them, except for Odzala National Park and Dimonika-MAB reserve, has benefitted from a rational
conservation program or management plan. These 11 reserves cover roughly 1.5 million ha, or 4.4%
of the national territory. In addition, the Nouabale-Ndoki and the Lake Tele-Likoula-aux-Herbes
sites, in the north of the country, have been identified as particularly important zones to conserve
since they still contain primary closed forests and inundated forests with considerable numbers of
large mammals. The addition of these two sites will bring the total amount of protected land to 3.5
million ha (just over 10% of the national territory). The Nouabale-Ndoki site could become part of a
larger conservation area which will be contiguous with the Dzanga-Sangha reserve in the Central
African Republic (CAR) and the Lake Lob6k6 region in Cameroon, thus forming one of the largest
closed forest systems in Africa.
4.           Project Objectives and Strategy. The project's overall objective is to protect a
significant amount of the Congo's biological diversity through: (a) continued monitoring of key
biodiversity indicators, and systematic planning and coordination of conservation activities, at the
national level; and (b) careful management of selected reserves, at the local level. This will ensure
that the country's ecosystems, important in global terms, will be conserved. The project will be the
first in a series on interventions for biodiversity conservation at the national and sub-regional level.
The project, as such, is modest and to some extent experimental. The project will pursue a long-term
strategy designed to build the necessary framework for effective biodiversity conservation in the
Congo and will act as a catalyst for complementary biodiversity protection projects. The main thrust



of the strategy will be to establish a coherent system of reserve management through the development
of: (a) appropriate institutions for all conservation activities, including a Trust Fund to contribute to
the project financial sustainability; (b) rational management plans for reserves where plans are non-
existent or inadequate; and (c) alternative activities for local popul3tions to ensure the long-tern
protection of the reserves.
5.            Project Description. At the national level, the project will lay the groundwork for a
permanent structure in charge of all conservation activities by creating a Project Management Unit
(PMU) and a Technical Steering Committee (TSC) to manage and monitor the project in the interim.
The project will also support the capacity-building of the Direction in charge of protected areas, the
National Herbarium, the National Geographic and Cartographic Center, and national NGOs. At the
local level, the project will focus on five sites representative of the country's biodiversity: Nouabale-
Ndoki, primary closed forest; Conkouati, mixed gallery forest, savannah and mangrove swamp;
Dimonika, mixed closed forest; Lefini, savannah and gallery forest; and Lake T61e-Likouala,
inundated forest. Additional inventory and survey work will be carried out in Mt. Fouari, Mt.
Nabemba-Garibenzam and other sites for possible inclusion at a later stage. In the five priority
reserves, the project will support the development and execution of rational management plans,
including alternative activities for local populations. The experience gained in these reserves will
form the basis for developing management systems to be replicated over time in all other reserves.
6.            Proiect ImDlementation. Responsibility for project implementation will be vested with
the Project Management Unit which will report to the Ministry of Economy, Finanace and Planning.
Technical steering will be entrusted to the Technical Steering Committee, chaired by the Ministry in
charge of protected areas and comprising all parties (including NGOs) involved in conservation
activities. The PMU will oversee the execution of all project components, and, in support of these
supervisory activities, will be directly responsible for all central tasks relating to: (a) planning and
monitoring of conservation activities; and (b) development of the regulatory and inmetitutional
framework for these activities. In addition, it will execute the following components: (a) studies
concerning the local populations, to be undertaken in close liaison with the individual reserve
authorities; (b) training of high-level personnel; (c) information and sensitization campaigns; and (d)
establishment of the Trust Fund. Two other executing agencies at the central level will be: (a) the
National Herbarium for all floristic inventories and studies; and (b) the National Geographic and
Cartographic Center for the treatment of maps. At the local level, daily management of project
activities will be the responsibility of the individual reserves authorities, except for the field activities
of the two centrally-managed components. In one area (Nouabal6-Ndoki), local project activities will
be undertaken as part of a broader program coordinated by Wildlife Conservation International (an
American NGO), and comprising other components financed by USAID under parallel arrangements.
The above set up will ensure: (a) operational autonomy in daily project implementation, both at the
nationa! and local level; (b) adequate dialogue/interface with technical and policy-making bodies; and
(c) sustainability of project actions.
7.            Project Sustainability. The following features are specifically built into the project
design to ensure institutional sustainability: (a) the central functions of the Project Management Unit,
following the Mid-Term Review (PY3), will be transferred to the pernanent structure in charge of
conservation activities to be created based on the recomunendations of the National Environmnental
Action Plan and on the experience gained during the first phase of project implementation; this
structure will have national oversight of conservation activities, and will be administratively and
financially autonomous; (b) within the national system, the local reserves authorities will be given
autonomous statutes, with in particular legal possibility to embark on revenue generating activities and
secure external funding; this will ensure that part of the resources generated locally will be used



3
locally both to contribute to recurrent expenditures and develop programs of alternative activities for
the local populations; (c) the creation of the Trust Fund will enable external funds to be mobilized in
the form of endowments; the latter will generate revenues to help cover part of future recurrent costs;
and (d) executive staff, research specialists, reserve managers, guards and other support staff will
undergo formal training in addition to the on-the-job coaching provided by technical assistance; the
latter's responsibilities will be gradually phased out and transferred to the national staff; training and
transfer of responsibilities, to be reflected in the terms of reference of the technical assistance, will
ensure the capacity building required for national institutions and reserves management.
8.            Lessons of Previous Bank/UN Involvement. To date, the only systematic
conservation efforts undertaken in the Congo have been initiated within the framework of the Man
and the Biosphere program in the area of Dimonika with UNDP/UNESCO sponsorship. The
program started at the beginning of the 80s and led to the successful development of a local reserve
system and important research findings. At present, however, this system is proving difficult to
sustain, mainly because of encroachment by the local population and lack of resources to cover
recurrent costs. This shortcoming is due mostly to the lack of alternative activities for the local
population and the absence of self-generated revenues in the reserve. The best example of the Bank's
involvement in conservation relevant to the Congo circumstances is in the CAR Dzanga-Sangha
National Park which borders the proposed Nouabal6-Ndoki reserve. This on-going project is proving
successful in restoring and protecting large populations of mammals as well as generating local funds
through safari hunting and tourism, by developing appropriate institutions and involving local
populations.
9.            Rationale for GEF involvement. Given Congo's anticipated economic problems in the
short-to-medium term, it is very unlikely that the Government will allocate adequate funds for the
conservation of ecosystems that are of vital importance from a global viewpoint. The availability of
grant funds will reinforce the Government's commitment to protect biodiversity, and will be a strong
incentive to the Government to pursue conservation and related support actions. GEF financing will
be limited to areas whose conservation has global significance and which receive no or insufficient
extemal assistance.
10.           Agreed Actions. Assurances obtained at negotiations are that the Governent will:
(a) organize a Mid-Term Review no later than June 30, 1995; and (b) no later than six months
following the Mid-Term Review (i) enact the new legislation conceming protected areas, (ii) adopt the
permanent structure to take charge of all conservation activities nationally, (iii) give appropriate legal
statutes to all five priority project sites, (iv) complete deployment of the required government staff in
these sites, and (v) establish the Trust Fund, all preceding measures under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and following adequate public consultations. As preliminary steps to the
above, the Governnent will have, by June 30, 1994: (a) submitted a plan to review the legislation
conceming protected areas, (b) taken the preliminary steps to gazette the priority project sites; and (c)
started deployment of government staff in these sites along the agreed individual schedules. As
conditions of Grant effectiveness, the Government will: (a) stop the issuance of new logging
concessions in the project priority sites; (b) establish a Project Management Unit, as interim
management structure for the project, under the tutelage of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Planning; the Unit will cease to exist no later than six months after the Mid-Term Review, at which
date the permanent structure is scheduled to take over; (c) select a Project Coordinator and two high
level staff for the Project Management Unit, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank, through competitive selection advertized in the local media; (d) establish a Technical Steering



4
Committee with a mandate and membership acceptable to the Bank to be chaired by the Minister in
charge of protected areas, and a Peer Review Committee, consisting of three international experts
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; (e) issue an appropriate legal instrument to
grant full tax exemption to all project related activities, subject to existing national laws and
regulations; and (f) deposit the amount of CFAF 5 million on the project account.
11.           Environmental Impact. The project will greatly enhance the conservation of the
country's biodiversity, thus having an overall positive environmental impact. The project will also
enhance the training and education of Congolese in matters concerning the environment, thereby
increasing the Government's awareness of environmental problems and capacity to manage the
country's natural resources. The strengthening of government institutions associated with
conservation matters will also generate a positive environmental impact. The environmental analysis
undertaken as part of project preparation stated that the project will have an overall positive impact on
the conservation of Congo's biodiversity. The analysis pointed out that, in the absence of the project,
the biodiversity of the Congo will continue to deteriorate. The main issues raised in the
environmental analysis concern the sustainability of the project actions following ternnination of
project funding, the inclusion of other areas outside the GEF sites, and the allowance for subsistence
hunting and alternative activities for local populations. The issue of sustainability is addressed in the
project mainly by the creation of the Trust Fund. In addition, the creation of alternative economic
activities for local populations and the involvement of international NGOs with a long-term interest in
the area should aid the sustainability of the project. Additional sites for possible inclusion at a later
date will be identified by the PMU, and inventories and surveys will be conducted. Management
plans will only be developed in these areas after the permanent reserve management capacity is able
to successfully manage the existing areas. To ensure environmental soundness in all project activities,
all management plans and project activities will be subjected to an independent environmental
assessment when necessary. The TSC will review all project activities and will decide on the
necessary environmental assessments.
12.           Benefits and risks. The main benefits to be derived from the project will be the
conservation of unique ecosystems, with attendant preservation of biodiversity of global value. The
project will give the Government the scientific and management cognizance to undertake further
conservation actions. It will also help develop an appropriate regulatory and institutional framework,
and establish a national system of reserves. This will furnish to the Government the capacity and
tools to design and implement a coherent conservation policy.
13.           The main risks associated with project implementation are largely outside project
control They concern: (a) the relative political instability of the country which is presently
undergoing a movement towards democracy; and (b) the potential conflict with other activities, such
as infrastructure building, logging, oil exploitation and agricultural development in the reserve areas,
that will aim at short term economic development. Concerning the political risk, despite the volatility
of the present political situation, the Government has continuously expressed commitment for
conservation-oriented activities. The decision to adopt a comprehensive Law of the Environment in
April 1991, and very recently to create a new ministry in charge of the environment, tourism and
leisure with responsibility over protected areas, are testimony of the Government's commnitment to
preserving biodiversity and augu.s well for the final institutional arrangements to be made in the area
of conservation of natural resources. The issue of potential conflict for land use has already been
partially addressed by the Governnent by agreeing to rapidly gazette the Nouabale-Ndoki area, and



5
therefore prohibit logging in this area which is one of the last unassigned forestry concession. This
represents a sign that the Government will accept the additional gazetting that may be required.
14.            Other implementation risks concern: (a) the lack of coordination of field activities,
which may lead to a number of isolated projects with their own rationale, rather than a coherent set of
actions consistent with the national strategy; (b) the lack of participation by local populations in
management and anti-poaching efforts in the reserves, preempting long-term sustainability; and (c) the
weak financial situation of the Government to mobilize funds for long-term conservation of protected
areas. These risks will be addressed under the project by: (a) developing the regulatory and
institutional framework at central level; assistance for institution-building (in particular in the field of
monitoring and supervision) will perrnit to effectively apply regulations and render the national
institutions operational; this will ensure proper coordination of field activities; (b) local participation
will be key to maintaining any long-term management system; thus support will go to establishing
proper dialogue with local people and helping fund pilot projects which will offset the pressure in the
reserves; and (c) the resources generated locally by the reserves and the establishment of the Trust
Fund should contribute substantially to cover recurrent costs both in the reserves and at the central
level. The Trust Fund will hope to attract other donor financing outside of the GEF.
Attachmnents



6
Schedule A
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
A. Estimated Project Costs
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    Foreign   Base Costs
Exchange
----CFAF Million -           --USS Thousand----    ----------X---------
National Level Components
1. Project Management                  105      171      276       390      635    1,025         62           8
2. Consultancfes and Studies           121      189      310       449      700    1,149         61           10
3. Trust Fund                           32       49       81       117      183      300         61            2
4. Training (mgmt. unit)               125      159      284       464      590   1,054          56            9
5. CERVE (herbarium)                    36       88      124       133      327      460         71            4
6. CERGEC (cartography)                 10       82       92        37      303      340         89            3
7. Project Preparatory Advance           7       20       27        25       75      100         75            1
Subtotal                            436     758    1,194    1,615   2,813   4,428             63          37
Local Level ComPOnents
1. Nouabal6 - Ndoki                    396     476       872    1,467   1,765   3,232            55          27
2. Conkouati                           227      299      526       840   1,107   1,947           57           16
3. Dimonika                            112      129      240       416      476      892         53            7
4. Lefini                               95      162      257       352      599      951         63            8
5. Lake Te6l   Likouala                 42       75      117       156      276      432         64            4
6. Others                               31       50       81       114      186      300         62            2
Subtotal                            903   1,191    2,094    3,345   4,409   7,754             57          64
Total Baseline Costs                 1,339   1,949   3,288    4,960   7,222  12,182              59          100
1. Physical Contingencies              131      196      327       484      726   1,210          50           10
2. Price Contingencies                  57       81      138       209      301      510         59            4
Total Prolect Costs                  1                 36 ,53                                    59          114
B. Financing Plan                     GEF                   USS10,100,000 !/
USAID                 USS 2,190,000
US Peace Corps        USS   410,000
HPLF                  USS   220,000
Goverrment            USS    98.000
Total                 USS13,900,000
a/ of which a USS 100,000 GEF Project Preparatory Advance and a USS 10 million GET grant.



7
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements 1/
Paral lel
Item                ICe           LCB       Other       Financing y                Total
--------------------- USS Thousand ---------------------
1.  Civil Works                    -            480         780                  -              1,260
-          (330)       (720)                 *              (1,050)
2.  Vehicles                      400            -          140                  -                 540
(400)           -        (140)                 -                (540)
3.  Goods and Equioment           400           270         400                 100             1,170
(400)         (270)      (400)                 -              (1,070)
4. TechnicaL Assistance
a. Short-Term                 -              -       2,860                  -              2,860
-             -      (2,B60)                                (2,860)
b. Resident                   -              -       1,360                 960             2,320
-            -       (1.360)                 -              (1.360)
Subtotal             -             -       4,220                 960              5,180
-             -      (4,220)                 -              (4,220)
5.  Training                       -                        430              1,010              1,440
-       -       ~~~~(430)              -                (430)
6. Incremental Operating Costs
a. Supplies and               -             -        2,276                  -              2,276
salaries 3/                -             -      (1,648)                  -             (1,648)
b. Others                     -              -       1,936                  -               1,936
-             -      (1.040)                 -             (1.040)
Subtotalt                                  4,212                                  4,212
(2,688)                               (2,688)
7. Project Preparatory             -                        100                  -                 100
Advance (PPA)                   -             -        (100)                 -                (100)
Total                        800           750      10,282              2,070             13,902
(800)         (600)    (8,698)                 -            (10,098)
1/ Amounts in parentheses lndicate GEF financing
2/ ParalLel financing by other donors will be under their own procedures
3/ SaLaries of incremental contractual and/or private personnel.



8
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Disbursement og GET Grant
US$ '000          % of Expendit.
Cateeorv                               Equivalent       To be Financed
1. Civil Works                           960             100%
2. Vehicles, Goods and Equipment        1,550            100%
3. Technical Assist. and Training      3,770             100%
4. Training 1/                           430             100%
5. Incremental Operating Costs
(a) Fuel and Lubricants           360             60% up to Dec. 32, 1995
30% thereafter
(b) Other                       2,060            100% up to December 1995
50% thereafter
6. Unallocated                           870
Total 2/                        10,000
_l As part of activities both of the PMU and other executing agencies.
a/ Total amount of GET Grant, excluding the US$100,000 GEF Project Preparation Advance (PPA).
B. Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year
1993      1994   1995   1996   1997           1998
------------------------------US$ million---------------------
Annual               0.6        1.6   2.8    2.4    2.0              0.6
Cummulative          0.6        2.2    5.0    7.4    9.4            10.0



9
ScheduleC
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                    1.5 year
(b)    Prepared by:                              Government and IBRD
(c)    First IBRD mission:                       February 1991
(d)    Appraisal mission departure:i             March 16, 1992
(e)    Negotiations:                             October 26-30, 1992
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:            March 31, 1993
(g)    Relevant PCRs and PPARs:                  None
1/ Key staff for project preparation and appraisl were: Messrs./Mmes Jean-Claude Balcet (Senior Agricultural
Economist/Task Manager), Karen Rihardson (Ecologist), Amy Vedder (WCI). Serge van Outryve (AGRER) and Charles
Di_nnge (IUCN).



10
Annex I
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Prolect Management Unit
I.     Personnel
The Project Management Unit (PMU) would oversee all project-related activities and would coordinate and
manage project-related activities at the national level. The PMU would be composed of:
(a)    a national coordinator, to be selected through competitive selection process advertized in
the local media;
(b)    a national expert in charge of the monitoring and evaluation component and the central-
level studies;
(c)    a national expert in charge of the technical follow-up of reserve-level activities; and
(d)    an internationally-recruited expert advisor to the national coordinator. The advisor to the
national coordinator would: (a) assist in the supervision and coordination of project
activities; (b) help prepare contracts and conventions; (c) assist in the Monitoring and
Evaluation of the project; and (d) liaise with the research community. If the expert were
Congolese, he/she would have to come from outside the mninistries implicated in the
project. The qualifications required would be minimum of ten years of field experience
in Africa in general project planning and management, with qualifications in enviroinmental
management and socio-economic development. The advisor would also need a good
command of computers and complete fluency in French.
H.     Studies and Consultancies
The Project Management Unit would provide specialized consultancies and studies with the help of national
and intemational experts, for the following purposes:
(a)    financial and accounting management of project activities;
(b)    development of a coherent regulatory and institutional framework for all conservation
activities, which would form the basis of a permanent structure;
(c)    study  of  the  bushmeat  problem   at  the  central  level  (i.e.  urban
consumption of bushmeat and urban markets for bushmeat);
(d)    development of a protocol for surveys of local populations and supervision of the
execution of the surveys at the reserve level; and
(e)    development of a central level strategy for anti-poaching to be implementod at the reserve
level.
In addition to the above studies/consultancies, the Project Management Unit would:
(a)    conduct the project Monitoring and Evaluation activities;
(b)    oversee the legal and technical engineering of the trust fund (see Annex 4);
(c)    help national NGOs capacity-build; and
(d)    promote sub-regional cooperation in the field of conservation.



11
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Project Management Unit (Ct'd)
m.    Capacitv-building of national Non-Government Organizations
The project would provide support to national NGOs in the field of conservation to help build their capacity
to implement conservation-related activities. This would be done through direct on-the-job training with the
international NGOs associated with the project and through support from the Project Management Unit. This
support would be used for:
(a)    developing the capacity of national NGOs to execute conservation-related activities
including twinning local NGOs with intemational NGOs for the implementation of project
activities at the reserve level;
(b)    providing conservation-oriented national NGOs access through the PMU to some of the
necessary facilities and equipment to develop conservation programs; and
(c)    promoting national NGOs through seminars, workshops, conferences and short-term
training.



Annex 2
Page I of 11
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
CONGO WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Mionitorini and Evaluation (M&E) Program
1.     General Considerations
A.    Goals and Scope of M&E Activities
In view of the central project goal to document knowledge and experience gained in project
implementation under the 'rolling design' strategy adopted, M&E activities would be an integral part of the project
implementation process. The pilot nature of some project components (including biological monitoring) will also
require effective M&E capability to assure reliable measurement of project impact and results. Beyond this
immediate objective, the project will aim more broadly at testing M&E procedures suitable for biodiversity
conservation projects.
M&E activities will focus on three aspects of project implementation:
-      institutional development, as the project represents a major vehicle to build coherent national
capacity to manage conservation activities;
-      biological composition, ecological conditions and status of key biological elements, as tracking
these parameters can contribute to the fundamental knowledge base of tropical conservation
practice; and
-      socio-economic conditions and community participation issues, as these concern the prospects for
local sustainability of conservation initiatives.
Within each subject area the M&E program will deffne indicators to be monitored, integrate
existing infornation and define new data gathering requirements to measure relevant baseline parameters. Where
appropriate, activities will identify control interventions and design appropriate sampling schemes, identify and
analyze trends, and recommend management actions.
B.     Role of Central vs. Local Structures
M&E activities will be executed within each reserve by the local management team with technical
support, periodic review and coordination functions supplied at the central level by the PMU in collaboration with
the National Herbarium (CERVE), the Geographic and Cartographic Center (CERGEC), utilizing specialized short-
term technical consultations as needed.
(a)    Project Management Unit
The PMU will assist local site authorities to define requirements for baseline studies, identify key
"indicators" to be monitored and develop an appropriate schedule and format for reporting of M&E results. The
PMU will commission special studies (e.g. of bushmeat marketing) as necessary and facilitate technical assistance
for the design and application of monitoring and evaluation activities by domestic and international collaborating



13
Annex 2
Page 2 of 11
agencies or institutions. Some critical elements of the PMU work program during PYI are given below in section
111.
The PMU will develop appropriate terms of reference for the Technical Steering Committee and
ensure that this entity has an appropriate role in the definition and review of M&E programs and reports.
The project management staff at the PMU will identify key activities that should receive detailed
attention from the Peer Review Committee during a given review cycle or mission so that cumulative knowledge
and documentation of project methods and achievements can be achieved in addition to information on overall
performance.
(b)    Peer Review Committee
The purpose of the external Peer Review Commnittee to be established under the project is to
provide periodic feedback to the PMU, the Government and the Bank on overall performance and progress toward
achieving project objectives. The committee will use the data produced under the M&E program and report findings
on an annual basis in a concise format addressing:
-      current status with regard to proposed project objectives and activities;
-      problems and delays in implementation and their proximate/ultimate causes;
-      recommendations for mid-course alterations;
-      analysis of implications of delays or proposed changes in specific activities with regard to overall
project implementation schedules and performance; and
-      issues and actions that require attention by Bank, Government or other program management staff
to improve project performance.
(c)    Technical Steering Committee
The Technical Steering Committee (TSC) represents the principal public forum for periodic review
and evaluation of project performance. Comprised of memmbership from the DFF, the collaborating agencies, other
relevant ministries, participating NGOs and the local site implementing units, the TSC will participate in the M&E
process through regular (at least serni-annual) review of performance reports prepared by the PMU and special
studies commissioned under the project. Prior to the project mid-term review, the TSC will review project
performance against established goals for each of the site components. The TSC will review annual reports of the
Peer Review Conmmittee and address needs for mid course changes recommended by the Peer Reviewers or the
PMU. The TSC in its role as an advisory body to the PMU and the site management authorities can recommend
specific issues to be addressed by the M&E unit within PMU and its collaborating agencies and review results of
special studies commissioned by the PMU to address such issues.
(d)    Local level units
The local site authorities are the principal agents responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
biological and ecological parameters relevant to project execution. They are also the units primarily responsible
for basic data collection and documentation of on the ground project performance in the areas of: physical
establishment of the protected areas, enforcement activities, community participation issues, and project related
development enterprises. With participation of the PMU and review by the TSC, the local units will define the
indicators to be monitored during project execution and agree on a reporting schedule and format acceptable to the



14
Annex 2
Page 3 of 11
PMU. As required, the local site authorities will cooperate with the Peer Review Committee and the PMU in
providing information on basic M&E activities undertaken at each of the project sites. Guidelines for relevant
general issues to track in site level project execution are given below in section 11. Some critical site-specific issues
to be addressed by the local site monitoring program during the period preceding the project mid-term review are
given in section IV.
11.     CateYories of M&E Activities
Tracking project performance requires a clear definition of meaningful and measurable criteria
against which progress toward achievement of general objectives can be assessed. Below are listed various
categories of activities that pertain to conservation program design, establishment and management and some
suggested 'milestones" by which progress can be assessed.
A.      Leeal/nstitutlonal Framework and Cavacitv Buildine
(a)     Legal and Institutional Framework
The legal and institutional framework will be critical to the development of a permanent structure
in charge of all conservation activities. During the initial phases of the project the following indicators will be used
to track project performnance in the following areas:
-       progress toward establishing the appropriate legal framework for creation and management of
protected areas, regulation of hunting or game harvesting, and appropriate enabling legislation to
create the institutional structures needed for long term effective management;
-       participation in appropriate international conventions (e.g. becoming a party to the 'Ramsar"
Convention conceming maintenance and wise use of wetland resources);
-       progress in drafting and enacting appropriate legal instruments (laws, decrees, declarations,
bylaws) to gazette the principal project sites;
-       collection of adequate information (legal and technical) to prepare the necessary legal instruments
(e.g. formal boundary descriptions, land tenure assessments);
-       establishment of review and advisory boards;
-      preparation and approval of management plans;
-       appointment and arrival in post of the key personnel (e.g. Project Coordinator); and
-      preparation and approval of annual workplans, and fulfillment of reporting requirements.
(b)     Capacity Buildinz
Monitoring project performance with respect to meeting capacity building goals, will require
tracking progress in three general areas: formal or professional education; informnal and local level training; and
public awareness programs.



15
Annex 2
Page 4 of 11
Indicators for PY1 will include tracking milestones of progress such as:
identification of formal and informal training needs;
development of training program and schedule;
selection of candidates;
identification of counterpart staff or constituents;
measure of impact of on-going and new educational activities on attitudes and perceptions of target
constituents; and
public participation in awareness programs and the effect on media coverage of conservation
related enterprises.
B.      Biolozical Monitorin2 and Protected Area Mana2ement
(a)     General Biological Features
The overriding question to be answered is if the project activities promote improved conservation
of biological diversity on the national scale and at the project sites. One of the principal objectives of baseline
studies is to define and delineate boundaries of core zones, buffer zones and other land management units within
and adjacent to the project sites that will be effective for long term management and conservation of biological
diversity.
Key activities to be addressed and monitored to track progress toward this goal include:
-       the assessment of status and distribution of target fauna and flora;
-       identification of fragile ecosystems and special features;
-       mapping of land cover and habitat distribution (Beta diversity);
-       execution of faunal and floral inventories (Alpha diversity); and
-       measurement of hydrological cycles and climatic parameters as these relate to ecological stability
of the sites.
(b)     Protected Area Management
(i)     Core conservation areas
Achievements concerning management of these areas during the initial project phase will be
monitored by evaluating progress toward:
-       definition and delineation of core areas or wildlife sanctuaries and buffer zones and other 'special
use' zones are identified and approved;
-       the development and execution of appropriate management plans;



16
Annex2
Page 5 of 11
control of illegal hunting, as measured by the number of snares set, capture rate, or other signs
of poaching or illegal activities;
the frequency and effectiveness of patrolling (i.e. have sufficient staff been recruited and
trained to protect core areas); and
bringing forested tracts adjacent to core areas under appropriate management to allow for habitat
continuity and to serve as dispersal sinks for wildlife populations resident in the core areas.
(ii)    multiRle-use areas
For the management of these areas during the initial phase, the following will be monitored by
tracking whether:
-       external boundary descriptions are prepared and approved and any proposed adjustments to
existing boundaries have been identified and approved;
-       subsistence hunting is being carefully regulated and poaching controlled;
-       patrolling by locals recruited by the project has increased protection of wildland resources of
buffer areas;
-       collection of firewood has remained at sustainable levels in buffer areas; and
-       the pace at which the regeneration of primary forest tree species occurred in logged areas in or
adjacent to protected areas is adequate or not.
C.      Socio-economic Conditions and Community Particinatlon
(a)    Socio-economic Conditions
(i)     Huntine and Economic Owportunitv
Hunting remains the preeminent male activity in the rural areas of Congo. The activity is basic
to local subsistence and cash income. The reserve areas, if divided into "core" and "buffer' areas, with
some hunting allowed for local populations in the latter, will have to find reasonable alternatives for men
offering comparable revenues and community incentives.
Monitoring activities should include:
following the level of bushmeat production by species and quantity for a small, representative
sample in some communities in or around the reserves. Site staff will handle data collection and
at least some preliminary analysis;
tracking changes in consumption patterns of bushmeat in the urban centers, especially the
viability of any proposed substitutes; and
evaluating the success of management and protection measures through examples of infractions,
fines, seizures and oLher evidence (such as traps and snares discovered).



17
Annex 2
Page 6 of 11
(ii)    Gender differences in economic activitv
Rural activities are organized according to a sexual -- and in some cases a generational -- division
of labor. Women produce the staple crops, such as manioc, taro and maize. They also bring in regular
cash revenues for the household through sale of products such as processed manioc, raphia palm wine,
palm kernels and small game snared in garden traps. Preliminary studies and subsequent monitoring will
have to establish the potential significance of local perceptions of nature and implications of gender
differences for the actual adoption of "new activities". Women are typically responsible for the regular,
intensive labor in some forms of agriculture and animal husbandry, as well as in food processing; men
specialize in activities including hunting, fishing, heavy periodic labor (like forest clearing), managing trees
for cash cropping, and generating revenues from outside labor opportunities.
Monitoring activities should include:
-       resource generating activities specifically tailored to women, such as improved conditions for
production, processing and marketing staple crops for the household and market; and
-       resource generating activities specifically tailored to men, such as "new" cash crops and
sustainable forms of hunting.
N.B.:  If appropriate, some attention could be given to generational differences in activities. For
instance, younger men may be turning to indiscriminate poaching for bushmeat merchants as an alternative
to currently unavailable, periodic wage labor.
(iii)    Perspectives for "alternative economic activities"
In general, rural productive activities in the proposed sites remain extensive, based on mixes of
shifting agriculture, animal husbandry, hunting and gathering. The success of the range of "alternative
activities" sponsored by the project will depend on means of breaking contemporary production constraints.
Promoting "new" cash crops will depend on current markets, handling and transport capacities. The cluster
of issues relating to transport problems appear crucial to prospects for future economic alternatives in the
project sites. Infrastructure is poor, and not managed to encourage overland transport by road. Men,
therefore, "rationally" focus on high value for low weight/bulk production of goods such as gold,
bushmeat, fish and live animals. Otherwise they move themselves opportunistically as (seasonal) labor to
urban marketplaces and to rural worksites (such as lumber concessions and construction sites). Women
engage in localized food production and transformation, and small-scale commnercialization of goods such
as poultry, processed cassava and palm-wine.
Points that should be monitored for alternative activities include:
local changes in the techniques, varieties and/or quantities produced in relation to new
(and old) activities; and
applications of applied research to local conditions and dissemination of technology for
activities including sustainable management of capture fisheries, small livestock rearing,
innovative forms of tropical animal husbandry, game ranching and aquaculture.



18
Annex 2
Page 7 of 11
(b)    Commnunity ParticiDation
(i)    'Traditional" community land tenure and use rights
Given official government "suppression" of communal land law, the project will have to effectively
reformalize and reinsta.e the power of local tenure and usufruct rights as an integral part of the
management program. The project should monitor the following:
-      the recognition of local systems of regulation by the government and management authorities,
including land use (for agriculture, etc.), arboriculture, hunting, fishing and gathering;
-      statutes, reserve regulations and minutes of committee or local meetings will serve as
written evidence of the "relegitimization" of commnunity powers;
-      the content of local regulations, covering hunting, fishing and gathering, including the exclusion
or limitation of locations, periodicity, species, techniques, time of day (diurnal or nocturnal),
immature or pregnant animals, certain plants or plant parts, etc.; and
-      disputes or local litigation indicating the level of respect and enforcement of regulations by the
communities.
(ii)    Stimulating and sustaining community suvDort and Darticipation in wildlands manasement
Given the significant contemporary and potential future impact of the local communities on the
sites, their role in management planning and implementation will be absolutely critical. For instance,
ineffective incorporation of the communities in and around the Dimonika Reserve has already resulted in
considerable local animosity without changing the heavy pressures on the resource. The community
members will need to play roles on group and individualized bases in the regulation, surveillance and
enforcement of sustainable resource use.
The program should monitor the following areas pertinent to community support and participation:
-      evidence of community roles in enforcement of protection measures, such as banning certain
methods of hunting; and
-      periodic canvassing of community members to determine the level of satisfaction with the
combination of management and local development efforts.
(iii)   Information, education. negotiation and exchanze of ideas
Indigenous knowledge and beliefs about natural resources are valuable for conceiving of and
justifying measures. For instance, hunters have notions about the impact of hunting immature, female and
pregnant animals on productivity. The following areas should be monitored:
-      reserve reports regarding the design and operation of the dialogue with the local community
members, including message content, community feedback, methodologies and periodicity;
-      meeting minutes and changes in management based on negotiated revisions of program short-term
or intermediate objectives; and
-      periodic field verification of the information flows within the communities.



19
Annex 2
Page 8 of 11
III.    Work Program at Central Level
A.     PMU Work Proeram
Below is a partial list of key activities which need to be carried out under the responsibiltity of
the PME during the first year (PYl) of project implementation to get the major components operational:
-      creation of the administrative structure of the PMU and the project site authorities;
-      establishment of the Technical Steering Committee with appropriate terms of reference and
membership representing national and site specific implementing institutions;
-      establishment of the Peer Review Committee with appropriate terms of reference and membership
acceptable to the World Bank;
-      development of a framework and tentative timetable for undertaking necessary legislative review
toward gazettement or revision of legislation concerning gazettement of project sites;
-      definition of training and institutional development goals and schedules, including needs for
workshops, technical and advanced training and on-the-job coaching from the expatriate technical
assistance;
-       formulation of a strategy for promoting public awareness of conservation issues which takes
advantage of special and unique features of the individual site programs;
-      formulation of a plan for integration of the projects conservation goals into the framework of the
National Environmental Action Plan currently being prepared; and
-      definition of guidelines for community participation in site management and for development of
program to promote alternative economic activities in local communities within and adjacent to
project sites.
B.      Proiect Launch Workshoo
Once the project management staff are in post and work plans have been drafted, a Proiect Launch
Workshop will be organized to bring together staff from the PMU, collaborating agencies such as the National
Geographic and Cartographic Center (CERGEC), Mutuelles Congolaises d'Epargne et de Credit (MUCODEC), the
National Herbarium (CERVE), and the site specific management units, to discuss the detailed work program for
PYI. The M&E program will figure as a major items on the workshop agenda. The timing for such a workshop
will depend on tho schedule of recruitment and deployment of key personnel, and progress in preparation of
workplans with clearly defined me-surable goals and objectives. An appropriate target date for the workshop will
be May 1993.
Output of the workshop will include:
-      definition of baseline studies and indicators for measuring project achievements with regard to
biodiversity related research, protected areas design and establishment, legal and institutional
issues and comnmunitv involvement;



20
Annex 2
Page 9 of 11
definition and adoption of a M&E schedule for the period preceding the mid-term project review;
articulation of monitoring and evaluation activities and responsibilities between the national and
individual site component levels;
agreement on reporting formats and mechanisms among the representatives of the PMU, the
collaborating agencies, and the site-specific project implementation units; and
delineation of the role and responsibilities of the Technical Comminttee and the Peer Review
Committee with regard to M&E activities.
IV.    Orientations for Work Program at Reserve Level
Within most protected areas, few data exist for many of the variables which could be used as
indicators of successful conservation action. During PY1, major emphasis will have to be placed on data collection
in order to assess the effectiveness of the project activities in years to come. Detailed goals and indicators will be
defined based on a dialogue between the local site management authorities, the PMU and the national institutes
during the Project Launch Workshop scheduled within the first six months of project implementation.
Some preliminary aspects of project performance which have been identified for monitoring
progress at each of the project sites during the period preceding the Mid-Term Review are given below.
A.      Nouabale-Ndoki
-       status of poaching, particularly along international borders;
-       track record of counterpart training;
-       demographics and movement-migration patterns of primates;
-       attitudes of local peoples toward the reserve;
-       legal boundary description, demarcation and gazetting of the reserve including buffer zones or
multiple-use areas; and
-       progress on baseline botanical surveys and faunal elements in addition to large mammals.
B.      Conkouati
-       legal status of reserve and any necessary changes (intemal zoning);
-       EA's for any expansion of forestry or oil production activities;
-       control of poaching and progress on buffer zone development of fuelwood production;
-       monitor threats to aquatic ecosystems; and
-       interactions with resident fishing communities and progress in involving local communities in
project design and development.



21
Annex 2
Page 10 of 11
C.      Dimonika
readjustment of internal zoning to reflect realistic ability to manage wildlife populations;
progress in identifying buffer zone development alternatives;
involvement of local people in reserve management decisions and their application; and
success in transfer of administrative responsibility from UNDP/UNESCO to DFF.
D.      Lirini
possible reclassification of Lake Blue and Mbouambe areas to upgrade status for wildlife
management;
success in controlling grazing pressure on fragile upland savannahs and control of bushfires along
gallery forest margins;
realistic plans for ecotourism development with maximum financial returns to local resident
cormmunities; and
rmonitor local attitudes toward the reserve (particularly the gorilla reintroduction program) and
local participation in all aspects of reserve development.
E.      Lac TeIle-Likouala
Congo to become a party to the "Ramsar" Convention before it can register the site;
Ramsar registration of the site and appropriate national legal designation to precede major
investment;
delineation and legal description of boundaries including internal zonation to delineate "core
zones" critical for seasonal (at least) protection of target species such as migratory waterfowl;
progress on necessary research to accomplish the above;
analysis of external threats to the wetland (if any) from potential disruption of the hydrological
regime by upstream activities;
initiating of studies on the current status and production potential (under a sound management
regime) and prospects for enhancement of native fisheries before going into aquaculture
alternatives (which have frequently been costly and economically nonviable elsewhere); and
contacts with organizations such as Royal Society for Protection of Birds (RSPB) and International
Commission for Bird Protection (ICBP) which have considerable African experience in wetland
research and assisting development of locally managed wetland conservation programs to
participate in data gathering and program planning for establishing this wetland conservation area.



22                                   Annex 2
Page 11 of I1
V.     Concludin! Remarks
Further design and elaboration of monitoring and evaluation procedures should result from a
participatory process involving PMU staff, representatives of collaborating agencies (e.g. CERVE, CERGEC), key
personnel of collaborating institutions (e.g. WCI, IUCN, Howletts and Port Lympne Foundation, HELP). The
composition of the Technical Steering Committtee needs to be defined and the terms of reference for its operation
developed and approved. Reporting formats and key indicators for performance tracking need to be identified,
defined and agreed to by the participants and executing agencies.
The M&E program needs to be further refined as an integral component of the project in such a
way that efforts expended in that realm contribute directly to enhanced project performance rather than detracting
from the limited time that key project staff have to devote to accomplishing the major project objectives. To this
end, the M&E process must be (and be perceived to be) an integral component of project execution. To this effect,
the process must provide valuable feedback to project managers in helping them design their future workplans and
program agendas. The process must also provide outputs which are a credible reflection of meaningful project
achievements and help to identify future needs for project actions and investments beyond the four year period of
GEF financing.
The recommendations in this annex should be taken as general guidelines for project management
and implementing personnel in designing an appropriate M&E regime which satisfies their own needs for
information to be used in project planning and execution. Results of the M&E process comprise a powerful and
effective management tool for the implementing agencies in both assessing and communicating project successes.
Reporting requirements for donors must be met in a way that both accurately reflects meaningful indicators of
project performance and does not detract from efforts to meet core project goals and objectives. An efficient and
effective M&E process is necessary to meet that goal.



23
Annex 3
page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMIENT PROJECT
Trust Fund
I.     Overview
The level of project funding would only be sufficient to cover the initial activities at the central and reserve
level. It is therefore crucial that the project leverage funds from other sources to cover long-term recurrent costs.
The project would do this by creating a trust fund to provide a long-term, perhaps indefinite, future income stream.
This would not only improve program stability by facilitating long-range planning, training and recruitment, but would
also serve to build up absorptive capacity by spreading large grants over a longer period of time), small grants
capacity (by 'retailing' large grants to a range of snaller projects) and would institutionalize cooperation between
the government sector, local communities and NGO's. The project would support the legal and technical engineering
and associated publicity needed to establish the Trust Fund, but would not contribute to its financial endowment. The
idea would be to attract outside donors to put money into the Trust Fund to cover part of the recurrent costs for
conservation-related activities in Congo. The engineering of this fund would be done by World Wildlife Fund - US
which has extensive experience in developing trust fund for conservation-related projects. The model for the trust
fund would be developed based on consultations with the Government, NGOs and the GEF. The Trust Fund would
be established by the Mid-Term Review of the project (PY3).
UI.    Models and Related Issues
A. Other GEF Trust Fund Models
Trust funds now being developed with assistance from the GEF in Bhutan, Papua New Guinea, Peru and
Poland can provide models for various elements of the trust fund that would be created for Congo. These models
share the following common features:
(a)    Trust funds are set up to finance agreed upon types of projects and activities;
(b)    funds are put into an endowment maintained by either
(i)    recipient country central bank or treasury or
(ii)    offshore fund managers, who will in either case
have administrative and investment responsibility;
(c)    Board of trustees to include government, NGOs, scientific community and GEF
representatives. Fiduciary and operational responsibility to lie with these trustees, who
would approve project plans/recurrent costs and financial statements, and authorize
disbursements for forthcoming periods (perhaps 12 months) ; and



24
Annex 3
page 2 of 2
(d)     Responsibilities of the World Bank would include: (i) assisting the planning and
appraisal of initial project/costs to be financed by the trust; (ii) approving trust
agreements and arrangements for security of fund, investment policies, accounting
requirements, disbursement procedures, and arrangements for independent auditing; and
(iii) periodic    evaluation of the extent to which the trust is achieving its initial
objectives, or possibly whether those objectives should be modified given changing
circumstances or project achievements.
B. Issues
Issues that have needed to be worked out in the case of other GEF assisted trust funds, and whose
solutions may have to be tailored to meet country- specific needs and conditions, include the following:
(a)     The precise composition of the trust fund board -specifically which government
ministries and agencies are to be represented, how many seats or votes they are to
receive, which NGO's, local community representatives and scientific experts are to be
represented and how they are to be chosen;
(b)     Whether or not to have separate sub-account or mnini-trust funds dedicated for
different purposes, or for different geographical areas;
(c)     Whether (and in what way) to associate the trust fund with an existing government
agency (or agencies), or whether to make it totally independent;
(d)     Whether the trust should have only a minimal administrative staff or whether it
should have a variety of full-time positions for technical experts and administrators; and
(e)     What should be the criteria for project activities and other assistance that the trust fund
will   provide in the future, after funding of the initial project stages is completed.
Other issues that have arisen in the case of other GEF assisted trust funds and may also need to be dealt
with here include:
(a)     A trustee generally cannot delegate fiduciary responsibility without permission from the
original grantor; the World Bank might therefore require specific authorization from the
GEF donors to establish such trust funds;
(b)     Establishing separate trust funds would represents a significant delegation of authority by
the World Bank; it would be essential to determine whether operational safeguards, could
be established to minimize the risks related to this delegation;
(c)     The extent to which project management and supervision could be delegated to the trustees,
or retained by the World Bank, would require clarification; and
(d)     Acceptability to donors and recipients.



25
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Training and Public Awareness
I.     Overview
1.     In order to effectively conserve a system of protected areas in the Congo, and to ensure long-term support
for rnanagement of conservation efforst, there is a great need to further develop in-country professional and public
capacity to recognize the importance of biological conservation and to undertake activities necessary for its
implementation. Specific human resource constraints include the following:
(a)    an inadequate number of qualified and motivated professionals available to ensure conservation
of protected areas:
(i)    at the national level: lack of administrative and scientific experts with the means and
experience to identify effective policies and strategies, and to enact long-term planning;
and
(ii)    at the level of protected areas: lack of conservators (6 currently empolyed nation-wide),
guards (16 total), guides (none), and outreach personnel responsible for liaison with
neighboring populations (none);
(b)    a lack of scholastic programs concerning environmental and conservation issues, at all levels
(primary school, secondary school, and university/technical school); and
(c)    little sensitivity within the Congolese populace on the importance and relevance of biologocal
conservation to their individual and collective (national) welfare.
H.     Existing Programs
2.     Many of the needs cited above are somewhat suprising given the strong emphasis placed on education and
training in the Congo. Constraints exist because current professional training is largely restricted to theory, with
no significant practical of field experience provided. At the same time, little or no conservation-related information
is discussed with school or public audiences. However, the existing institutional capacity to educate both
professionals and the general populace is great. A review of the training needs and the institutional capacity to
undertake training and public awareness is being performed under the Protected Areas Conservation Strategy
(PARCS) program executed by WCI, W-WVF, and AWF (African Wildlife Foundation). Existing institutions and
their relevant progranms include:
A.     Professional TrAinine
(a)    the Wildlife school at Garoua (Cameroon), where 24 Congolese have trained over the past 22
years to become technical experts, conservators and head guards--but training rarely includes field
experience in forests or in Congo;
(b)    the Rural Development Institute (IDR) (Brazzaville), which offers three and six year programs in
Forestry (including 2 relevant branches of Anirnal Biology and Plant Biology) and Agriculrural
Sciences--field work is required, though few real opportunities exist.



26
Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
(c)    the University of Marien Ngouabi (Brazzaville), which offers three and four year degrees in
Animal Biology, Plant Biology, and Environmental Law -- fieldwork consists of one week's visit
in either program;
(d)    the National Forestry School (ENEF), at which forest technicians receive training in syviculture
and forest exploitation; and
(e)    a post-graduate training program in natural resource management (ATLAS), and in particular
conservation, is planned to begin in late 1992 with USAID financing, offering Master's and
Doctoral training in the United States; other bilateral assistance is irregularly available for
conservation-related post-graduate education.
B.     Scholastic Trainin2
(a)    secondary schools, which have courses in biology and ecology; and
(b)    primary schools -- nothing is currently taught regarding biology or environment.
C.     Public Awareness/Extension/Outreach
(a)    national-level media:  television, radio, newspapers, films -- currently cover very little on
environment or conservation;
(b)    Directorate on Environmental Law and Education -- is now testing a set of teaching modules on
conservation for the region surrounding the Dimonika-MAB reserve under financing from the
Mayombe Project;
(c)    rural extension programs:  Literacy Centers (approx. 300), "Rural Progress" Centers, rural
associations/groups, women's groups, the National Agricultural Extension Project (World Bank),
other specific rural development projects -- little/no discussion of biological conservation or non-
project natural resource management currently takes place;
(d)    particular conservation projects: Mayombe Project (UNESCO/UNDP), Odzala National Park
(EDF), and Congo Forest Conservation Project (USAID/WCI at Nouabale-Ndoki) -- each plans
a public awareness component of project; and
(e)    national NGOs: 2-3 conservation NGOs are presently being formed, one existing NGO focusses
on women and natural resources -- all plan emphasis on public awareness.
3.      In sum, able institutions and public awareness mechanisms exist, yet do not function effectively in
conservation education and training chiefly due to: (a) a lack of information readily available to them
concerning biological conservation and protected areas; (b) inadequate means to give trainees field
experience; and (c) little means for maintaining professional motivation once employed.



27
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
m.               Project StrategY
4.      The project would adopt a strategy of:
(a)     link-ing existing professional training programs with protected area conservation activities and
personnel, providing practical experience and frequently integrating biological, social and
economic concerns in training;
(b)     establishing regular in-service workshops for protected area personnel, allowing for professional
exchanges and discussion;
(c)     providing protected area inforrnation to public awareness programs, national and local; and
(d)     fostering dialogue with populations neighboring protected areas, integrating discussion of
biological conservation and protected area management with alternative economic activities.
IV.              Proiect Training and Public Awareness Activities
5.      The above strategy would be implemented by the following principal activities of the project:
A.      Training of Conservation Professionals
(a)     guards, guides:  (i)periodic training workshop for all new personnel; (ii) on-site training via
apprenticeship %.th project; and (iii) in-service workshop each year, in a protected area;
,b)     outreach specialists: (i) 2 training workshops at onset of project (initial orientation, followed by
2 months of field reconnaissance, consolidated with 2nd workshop); and (ii) in-service workshop
each year, in a protected area;
(c)     protected area managers: (i) fieldwork training/research in protected areas to be associated with
existing programs at Garoua, IDR, the university, and ENEF; (ii) regular lectures given by field
personnel at the above in-country institutional training programs and (iii) in-service workshops
each year, in a protected area; and
(d)     de-ision-makers: (i) see above for basic formal trairing, and complementary bilateral financed
pc.bt-graduate education (ATLAS); (ii) national level seminar each two years, possibly in
conjunction with other environmental programs; and iii) occasional short-courses or conference
attendance overseas;
B.      Public AwarenevS.iOntreach
(a)     national: (i) supply information and materials t, mvdia: television, radio, newspapers, films;
facilitate their collection of information on proitcted areas and conservation; and (ii) support
informational activities of NGOs, via selected small grants program; and
(b)     ru:al, in areas surrounding protected ar:as: (i) develop outreach program for each focal protected
area, details of which will be developed in init al two workshops; may include outreach via
network of village "ar,imateuis", local associations/groups, existing extensionlliteracy programs
o- projects, and/or w dh locai scliools; and (ii) integrate outreach program with facilitation of
a eernati:e ecoromic sctivities, making clear the necessary linkages.



28
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
V.    Training Schedule - Project Year 1
Project Year            Month          Activity
PY1                   2           Meeting of all implementing agencies to evaluate
training needs
3          Training workshop for all new personnel;
4          Training workshop for all new guards
6          Training workshop for outreach specialists-initial
orientation followed by 2 months of fiel_ reconnaissance
6          Meeting of decision makers to determine candidates for
ATLAS program and training needs for decision makers
10         Workshop for reserve guards and outreach offices in
Nouabale-Ndoki and Conkouati
12         National level seminar for decision makers in
conjunction with the National Environmental Action
Plan



29
Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Service Contracts
I.             Overview of Resident Technical Assistance
The GEF project would finance 272 person-months of resident technical assistance over the 4-year
duration of project execution, including 128 person-months under GEF financing, 96 person-months under USAID
fmnancing, and 48 person-months under the financing of the University of Kyoto. The distribution would be as
follows:
Component             Position                                person-       Period
months
Project           -  Advisor to the National Coordinator         36         yr. 1-3
Management
Unit
Herbarium         -  Botanist-ecologist                         12           yr. I
Map               -  Cartographer/GIS expert                     6           yr. 1
database/GIS
Nouabale-Ndoki    -  Project Director (USAID/WCI)                48         yr. 1-4
-  Project Manager (USAID/WCI)                48         yr. 1-4
-  Primatologist (Kyoto University)           24         yr. 1-2
-  Sociologist (Kyoto University)             24         yr. 1-2
-  Total Nouabale-Ndoki                      144
Conkouati         -  Advisor to the Reserve Director            36          yr. 1-3
Dimonika          -  Advisor to the Reserve Director            24          yr. 1-2
Lefini            -  Periodic consultations      -
Lake Tele         -  Advisor to the Program Director            14          yr. 1-2
I.             Terns of Reference for Resident Technical Assistance financed under the GEF Frant
All resident technical assistants, in addition to their specific tasks presented below, will have to
provide on-the-iob training and coaching to the national counterpart staff, so that the latter can take over when the
technical assistants leave at the end of their expatriate assignrnent.



30
Annex S
Page 2 of 6
A.      Advisor to the National Coordinator
Resvonsibilities:
(a)     assist in supervision and coordination of project activities;
(b)     help prepare contracts and conventions;
(c)     assist in the Monitoring and Evaluation of the project; and
(d)     liaise with research community.
Duration of appointment: Three years
Oualifications:  Field experience (minimum  of ten years) in Africa in general project planning and
appraisal/management, with strong qualifications in environmental management and experience in socio-economic
development. Good command of computers and fluent in French.
Procurement method: Short-list competitive bidding amongst qualified firm/NGOs (PMU contract).
B.      Technical Assistant at the Herbarium (CERVE)
Responsibilities:
(a)     assist in developing a scientific protocol for botanical inventorics;
(b)     develop staff capacity to carry-out botanical inventories in the project sites;
(c)     assist in developing vegetation maps; and
(d)     train the national director and assistant in the identification of plant species and ecosystems.
Duration of appointment: One year
Oualifications:  Expert botanist-ecologistassociated with an internationally-recognizedherbarium which would
provide long-term technical support to the herbarium with at least 5 years of experience in Africa. Fluent in French
and English.
Procurement method: Short-list competitive biding amongst internationally recognized herbariums (CERVE
contract).
C.      Technical Assistant to the Geozraphic Research  and Cartographic  Production  Center
(CERGEC)
Responsibilities:
(a)     help strengthen existing map database and vegetation maps, and
(b)     provide training in GIS and satellite image analysis;



31
Annex 5
Pagc 3 of 6
Duration of apnointment: Six months
Oualifications: Cartographer with extensive experience in GIS and satellite image analysis, associated with
an internationally-recognized institute which would provide long-term technical support to CERGEC. Fluent in French.
Procurement method: Short-list competitive biding amongst specialized internationally recognized institute
(CERGEC contract).
D.      Advisor to Reserve Director - Conkouati
Responsibilities:
(a)     General management support/advice to Reserve Director;
(b)     supervision of studies and monitoring of local population;
(c)     supervision of the program to reintroduce chimpanzees; and
(d)     formulation of procedures and methods for the protection of the reserve.
Duration of appointment: Three years.
Oualifications: Minimum of five years experience managing national park/reserve/biological conservation
projects in Africa. Sensitive to issues concerning local populations. Fluent in French.
Procurement method: Sole source procurement with the World Conservation Union (IUCN contract).
E.      Advisor to Reserve Director - Dimonika
Responsibilities:
(a)     General management support/advice to Reserve Director;
(b)     supervision of studies and monitoring of local population;
(c)     development and supervision of alternative economic activities for local populations; and
(d)     formulation of procedures and methods for the protection of the reserve.
Duration of appointment: Two years.
Oualifications: Minimum of five years experience managing a national park/reserve/biological conservation
project in Africa. Background in sociology/rural development. Sensitive to issues concerning local populations. Fluent
in French.
Procurement method: Short-list competitive bidding amongst qualified firms/NGOs.



32
Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
F.     Advisor to Pro2ram Director - Lake Tele
Responsibilities:
(a)    General support/advice to Program Director;
(b)    assist in delineation of the limits of the site for gazetting;
(c)    development and supervision of alternative economic activities for local populations; and
(d)    formulation of procedures and methods for the protection of the reserve.
Duration of appointment: Fourteen months.
Oualifications: Minimum of five years experience managing a national park/reserve in Africa. Background
in wetland ecology, with knowledge of rural development. Sensitive to issues concerning local populations. Fluent
in French.
Procurement method: Sole source procurement with the World Conservation Union (IUCN contract).
III.    Main Technical Assistance and Services Contracts
A.     Proiect Management Unit (PMU)
Description    - 3 person-years of resident T.A.     $       570,000
- National personnel                  $       180,000
- Short-term consultancies            $      670,000
- Technical Steering Committee        S       80,000
- National NGOs                       $       90,000
- Operating expenditures              $      225000
Total                                 $     1,815,000
Procurement method: Short-list international competitive bidding
B.     National Herbarium (CERVE)
Description    - I person-year of resident T.A.      $       120,000
- National personnel                  $       50,000
- Short-term consultancies            $       35,000
- Equipment and Goods                 $       60,000
- Training                            $       35,000
- Operating expenditures              $       15 000
Total                                 $      315,000
Procurement method: Short-list international competitive bidding



33
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
C.     National Geographic and Cartographic Research Center (CERGEC)
Description    - 8 person-months of resident T.A.   $       80,000
- National Personnel                 $       35,000
- Training                           $       40,000
- Goods and Services                 $       80,000
- Operating Expenditures             $       l 5 000
Total                                $      250,000
Procurement method: Short-list international competitive bidding
D.     Nouabale-Ndoki
Description:    - National personnel                $       65,000
- Equipment and goods                $       55,000
- Reserve management                 $      580,000
- Short-term consultancies           $      240,000
- Laboratory analysis                $       90,000
- Alternative activities             $       150,000
- Operating expenditures             $      220 000
Total                                $    1,400,000
Procurement method: Sole-source procurement with Wildlife Conservation International ($1,240,000) and the University
of Kyoto ($160,000)
E.     Conkouati
Description:    - 6 person-years of resident T.A.   $      530,000
- National personnel                 S      430,000
- Reserve management                 $      160,000
- Equipment and goods                $      220,000
- Short-term consultancies           $      210,000
- Alternative activities             $       110,000
- Operating expenditures             $      130 000
Total                                $     1,790,000
Procurement method: Sole-source procurement with the World Conservation Union (IUCN)
F.     Dirnonika
Description:    - 2 person-years of resident T.A.   $      200,000
- National personnel                 $      125,000
- Equipment and goods                $       60,000
- Reserve management                 $      110,000
- Alternative activities             $       65,000
- Operating expenditures             $      100.000
Total                                       660,000
Procurement method: Short-list international competitive bidding



34
Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
G.    Lake Tele
Description:    - 14 months resident T.A.           $      175,000
- National personnel                 $       130,000
- Equipment and goods                $       85,000
- Reserve management                 $       40,000
- Short-term consultancies           $       30,000
- Alternative activities             $       50,000
- Operating expenditures             $       500
Total                                $      560,000
Procurement method: Sole-source procurernent wiEh the World Conservation Union (IUCN)
IV.    Short-term Technical Assistance and Training Contracts
A.     Financial Audits                             $      135,000
Procurement method: Short-list local competitive bidding
B.     Peer Review Committee                        $      340,000
Procurement method: Short-list of international experts
C.     Procedure manuals                            $       45,000
Procurement method: Short-list local competitive bidding
D.     Short-term consultancies                     $      250,000
Procurement method: Short-list of national and international experts
E.     Trust Fund                                   $      340,000
Procurement method: Sole-source procurement with World Wildlife Fund
F.     Training                                     $      430,000
Procurement method: Short-list of national and international experts



35
Annex 6
Page I of 3
REPUIBLIC OF CONGO
WVILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MIANAGENIENT PROJECT
Nouabal&Ndoki Site
1.              Background
I.     The Nouabale-Ndoki site, extending over some 450,000 ha, is located in the north of the country on the
border with the Central African Republic and Cameroon. It is adjacent to the Dzanga-Sangha reserve in the CAR.
The site covers the "forest management unit" (UFA) of Nouabale, although it also extends into the UFA of Kabo,
Mokabi and Loundougou, thus incorporating the entire upper portion of the watersheds of the Nouabale and Ndoki
Rivers. The climate is equatorial, with annual precipitation of approximately 1 ,600 mm and an average temperature
throughout the year of close to 25C. Soils are sandy-textured hydromorphic laterite oxysols for ihe most part.
2.      Gazetting the site as a reserve would endow the Congo with a reserve represeniative of primary closed
forest, which is amongst the least known and studied in Central Africa. The area could also become part of a three-
nation system reserves with CAR (the adjacent Dzanga-Sangha reserve, created in 1987) and Cameroon (the region
northeast of Moloundou, around Lac Lobeke, now being discussed as a possible reserve).
II.             Fauna
3.              Nouabale-Ndoki is one of the rare Central African forest areai whose fauna remains virtually
intact. Population density of each species present is high relative to densities founc in other smilar forests. Several
species of large manimals are found in abundance:
(a)   Ele2hants: The database built up from several studies carried out in the region indicate that the
upper segment of the Ndoki basin shows a very high-density elephant population compared to
other parts of Africa. Elephants are hunted in the area for th2ir ivory, which is evacuated to
Congolese cities via the rivers and to CAR over land.
(b)   Gorillas: Gorilla density recorded in the region is quite high, trarticularly in areas of abundant
terrestrial herbaceous vegetation.
(c)   Chimpanzees: Observation has shown the population density of these animals to be extremely
high east of the Ndoki River, much more so than in other parts of the northern Congo.
(d)    Diurnal primates:  Ten species vf diurnal primates have been observed in the site.  Most
commonly found are Cercopithecus nicrihanis and Cerocebus albigena.
(e)   Other large mammals: The population of large inarnmals east of the Ndoki River is very dense.
Numerous duikers are found, particularly Cephalophus sylviculror. The bongo (a large forest
antelope) is rare throughout most of the area.
111.            Flora
4.               Forest cover consists principally of semi-deciduous Srerculiaceae-Ulmaceae, with large areas of
malapa forest. River floodplains consist mostly of moist forests of raphia palm. Overall, the forest is mature,
except for the relatively small area west of the Djeke River, whei e logging operations have taken place during. the
last 10 years.



36
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
IV.             Human Population
5.              At the present time, there are no permanent human settlements known in the area proposed for
designation as the Nouabale-Ndoki reserve. Logging operations have not taken place in the zone north of the Djeke
River and east of the Ndoki. The region is accessible from several main points: Bomassa, Bon Coin. Makao.
Bayanga, Balambok-Manasau and Lindjombo, the last three being located in the CAR. Average human population
density in the entire zone, at less than I inhabitant/kmr, is low.
6.              Local populations around the proposed reserve (in particular in Bomassa, Bon Coin and Makao) have
been involved in planning the reserve since its inception. The University of Kyoto research team has been working
with the local populations since 1987. Several public consultations were held bctween the Government of Congo, the
staff of the Congo Forest Conversation (CFC), the preparation team for this project and the local populations (pygmy
and bantu). The outcome of these meetings showed a strong desire on the part of the local populations to create a
reserve on the condition that they were invited to participate in defining the limits for the core and buffer zones of
the reserve and in determining the wages for local employment. The local populations welcomed the CFC project
and welcomed their participation in the management plan for the site.
V.              Existing Actions
7.              Nouabale-Ndoki has recently become a focus of conservation efforts via the Congo Forest
Conservation (CFC) project, jointly financed by USAID, Wildlife Conservation International (WCI), and the
Governrment of Congo. This project, now being implemented by the Director of Fauna and Flora Conservation
(DFFC) and WCI, is designed to plan, establish and manage a new nature reserve, following the intention declared
by the Congolese government in 1991. This reserve is to be gazetted no later than Decemeber 31. 1993. The CFC
project is also intended to organize an applied research program and station for the reserve, train Congolese
conservationists (both scientific and managerial), and involve local populations in management of the reserve and
associated natural resources. The initial 5-year phase began mid-1991, with significant but incomplete funding from
the above sources. Previously confirmed funding will cover costs of most project personnel, partial logistical support,
and some training and research costs. Since 1987 the site has also been the object of biological and anthropological
research, undertaken by a team from the University of Kyoto and the General Direction of Scientific and Technical
Research (DGRST). Research has focussed on the ecology and behavior of forest primates, and the Aka and B'aaka
pygmies.
VI.             Project Interventions
8.              The project activities planned for Nouabale-Ndoki would be complementary to those in progress via
the above projects and would be executed by CFC in liaison with the University of Kyoto for certain aspects of
research. They would consist of:
(a)     the establishment of an effective system of reserve protection (boundary marking; administrative.
guard and guide training) -- CFC;
(b)     assessment of large mammal hunting (harvest rates. renewal rates, impacts, economic importance.
guidelines for sustainable use) -- CFC and University of Kyoto.
(c)     studies of vegetational dynamics, with focus on regeneration in natural and logged forest patches
to assess damage from harvest regimes -- CFC;
(d)     inventory and monitoring of selected flora and fauna -- CFC. University of Kyoto, and National
Herbarium;
(e)     anthropological studies to assess needs and desires of local human populations, and thereby guide
project activities -- University of Kyoto;



37
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
(f)     creation of basic infrastructure to allow establishment of a scientific research center -- CFC and
University of Kyoto;
(g)     training (direct, via apprenticeship and guided research) in the activities cited above -- CFC and
University of Kyoto.
VII.             Field Resources
9.      The following field resources would need to be provided to expand activities already initiated as part of the
projects underway:
(a)     Infrastructure: Two basic but durable research stations will be constructed: one near the Ndoki
(camp site of the Kyoto University researchers) and another near the Mbeli clearing
(CFC);
(b)     Permanent staff: Expatriate personnel will be provided by existing projects for a period of at least
5 years (end of first year of CFC operations will coincide with the onset of the GEF
project); Senior CFC Congolese staff will be salaried by the Government of Congo, with
logistical and operational support provided by the project. Additional full-time staff would
be salaried by existing projects, with the following complement to be covered by
project funds:
(i)     four Congolese scientists associated with the Japanese team (sociology of
human settlements and primatology); and
(ii)    support staff: one clerk/bookkeeper; one secretary; two boatmen;gamewardens/guides; and
five caretakers/laborers; and
(c)     Temporary staff:Project funding would be applied as follows:
(i)     temporary laborers would be recruited to build basic project infrastructure and work as
porters/guides (for a total of 60 man-years);
(ii)    funds will be made available at field level to finance periods of residence by national
students interested in doing their final university assignments in subjects that would
improve existing knowledge of the zone and promte its conservation; and
(iii)    local residents will be recruited as porters/guides to accompany the various working tours
that will take place in the reserve.
Vill.            Financing
10.             The project would benefit from the above-described joint USAID/WCI financing, support from the
University of Kyoto, and provision of U.S. Peace Corps personnel.  Discussions continue concerning possible
additional financing by German bilateral assistance (GTZ). This financing would go toward an assessment and
outreach program in Ouesso and other surrounding communities.
11.             Infrastructure, resources and operating funds will be shared by the CFC and University of Kyoto
teams and admninistered as an integral part of the CFC project under the supervision of the project direction acting for
and on account of the Government.



38
Annex 7
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Conkouati Reserve
I.             Backeround
1.             The Conkouati fauna reserve, created in 1980 and modified in 1989, has a surface area of
approximately 300,000 ha. The region comprising and surrounding the reserve is divided into concessions leased
out to forestry companies (for exploitation) and oil companies (for exploration). This has meant that a "total and
absolute protection of the wildlife", as described in the reserve's legal statute, has been difficult.
2.             The reserve includes a vast diversity of ecosystems: from marine and coastal zones to the
Mayombe mountains, and from savannahs areas to wetlands and dense forests. Marine, brackish and fresh water
ecosystems are well represented in the reserve by the ocean, lagoons, rivers and lakes. Although the wildlife is
under extreme pressure due to the proximity to Pointe Noire, the abundance of wildlife remains the highest in the
south of Congo.
II.            Fauna
3.             Preliminary studies on the fauna of the reserve were conducted by the World Conservation Union
(IUCN) in collaboration with the Direction of Flora and Fauna Conservation (DFFC) in the south-east and south-
west parts of the reserve; only the northern part of the reserve is poorly studied. Several other inventories, in
particular on elephants have been conducted by Wildlife Conservation Intemational (WCI). The results of these
studies show the wildlife typical of the Congolese savannah and forest: buffalo, waterbuck, duiker, red forest hog,
Atherus africanus, gorillas, chimpanzees, mandrills, panthers, elephants, etc. The diversity of habitats in the reserve
also supports a diverse bird life. The beaches of the reserve are the nesting grounds for a variety of sea turtles and
the Conkouati lagoon and Noumbi river still contain populations of manatees.
III.           Flora
4.             The vegetation in the reserve parallels the Atlantic coast. From the coast to the Mayombe the
vegetation moves from a coastal vegetation to a mosaic of gallery forests and savannahs to the rich, dense lower
montane forests of the Mayombe. Interspersed in this mosaic are swamps and flooded forests.
5.             The flooded forests and swamps are almost the last remaining examples of untouched forests in
the south of Congo, in particular in the Kouilou region. Some of the non-inundated forests are still fully intact,
however, most of the forests have undergone at least one stage of logging.
6.             The preliminary inventories (ORSTOM, CERVE, IUCN) have demonstrated the floristique
richness and presence of endemic species form the region west of the Mayombe. Two species of coffee unknown
elsewhere have been found near the village of Ngongo.
IV.            Human Population
7.             The population of the district of Madingo-Kayes is approximately 7,500 inhabitants for 6,260 km,
or 1.2 inhabitants/km2. The 5,000 inhabitants who live in reserve are spread throughout the 34 villages. The closest
city is Pointe-Noire, situated at approximately 90 km from Tchizalamou, the entrance to the reserve. The direct



39
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
impact of the populations living in and around the reserve has been the subject of several recent studies by IUCN,
but the influence of Pointe-Noire (600,000 inhabitants) on Conkouati and the impact of the populations on the
resources of the reserve remains a priority to study.
8.              The recent authorization of forest exploitation and oil exploration has created a series of roads in
the reserve which have increased the accessibility to the intcrior of the reserve for hunting. Hunting and fishing
remain the principle occupations of men, whereas traditional agriculture is the main occupation of women. Amongst
the industrial activities in the region, uncontrolled forest exploitation is thc most threatening. In addition to this.
brush fires and poaching threaten the reserve.
V.              Existing Actions
9.              The Conkouati reserve is actually under the responsibility of the Direction of Flora and Fauna
Conservation (DFFC). Presently one conservator and several guards, based in Madingo-Kayes, are in charge of the
management of the reserve. The present management is restricted to road checks outside of the reserve, as they have
no vehicles or equipment at their disposal and little financial support. Infrequent visits are made to the reserve when
officials from Brazzaville visit.
VI.             Proiect Interventions
10.             The long term  objective of the interventions in Conkouati are to address the needs of the
populations living around the reserve, and protect a significant amount of biodiversity while considering the
industrial demands on the region (forest exploitation and oil exploration ).
11.             The activities proposed by the GEF project in Conkouati are in line with those already initiated
by IUCN and a national NGO with support from BP and Chevron International Limited.
12.             The systematic application of a rational protection strategy for the Conkouati reserve is difficult
due in part to the to the diversity of ecosystems, human pressures, potential for tourism, the need for self-sufficient
villages and the industrial pressures (wood, minerals and oil). Thus, an effective protection policy would have to
be developed in collaboration with local communities and the industries in the area so that it encompasses not only
protection, but rational harvesting and management of natural resources.
13.             The interventions in Conkouati would be executed by the World Conservation Union (IUCN),
with the assistance of a national NGO and the DFFC. The planned interventions would be as follows:
(a)     the reinforcement of the DFFC's capacity to manage the reserve (surveillance, protection,
management, monitoring and evaluation, and involvement of local populations);
(b)     delineate the limits of the reserve to include marine and coastal areas, forest and savannah areas
and core and multiple use areas, with the possibility of a transborder area with Gabon;
(c)     prepare a detailed, yet flexible management plan for the reserve, intergrating the needs of the local
communities with sustainable management of natural resources;
(d)     complete biological inventories and studies on the physical characteristics of the reserve and the
flora and fauna started by IUCN;
(e)     study the human impact and the socio-economic dynamics of populations living within and around



40
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
the reserve, including the influence of the city of Pointe Noire. In particular, the problems
associated with the forest exploitation industry, and the better management of natural resources.
Other studies would include the demand for bushmeat, poaching, oil exploration and mining;
(f)     identify and develop alternative economic activities (this would be done directly by the project,
or in liaison with other locally established projects and MUCODEC);
(g)     help DFFC reintroduce confiscated chimpanzees to the reserve, which would serve as a catalyst
to develop tourism from Pointe Noire;
(h)     progressively develop small-scale tourist activities near and in the reserve to attract tourists from
Pointe Noire;
(i)     study the modes of hunting around the reserve with the goal of developing a subsistence and
rational hunting policy for the area;
(j)     develop an awareness program for the local populations of conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources.
(k)     help supervise environmental impact studies done by forestry and oil exploration companies;
(1)     research financial support for activities which would continue after the project and for which
other sources of funds (Trust Fund) would not be sufficient.



41
Annex 8
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Dimonika-Man and BiosDhere Reserve
1.             Backaround
1.             Dimonika-Man and Biosphere (MAB) reserve, located north of National Highway I near Mvouti,
roughly 185 km northeast of Pointe-Noire and 400 km west of Brazzaville, was created in 1988 as part of the
UNESCO Man and Biosphere (MAB) program. Consisting of some 136,000 ha, or close to one-third of the
Mayombe forest, the reserve is subdivided as follows:
(a)     a central zone bordered on the north by the Loubomo River, on the west by longitude 1212'
East, on the east by longitude 1232'30" East, and on the south by latitude 4016' South and the
zone of influence running alongside National Highway l;
(b)     an initial buffer zone 4 km in width extending on either side of the Mpounga-Makaba road leading
toward the center of the reserve;
(c)     a second buffer zone between latitude 4016' South and the northern boundary of the zone of
influence; and
(d)     a zone of influence consisting of a strip 6 km in width to the north of National Highway 1.
I.             Fauna
2.             The wildlife of the Mayombe is an important source of protein for its inhabitants. The rivers hold
a great diversity of fish species, and land animals include large mammals (elephants, gorillas, chimpanzees,
leopards, buffalos, monkeys, etc.) and reptiles (crocodiles, monitor lizards, and snakes). Knowledge of wildlife
dist.ibution, abundance and dynamics in the Mayombe is still limited. It is nevertheless known that a significant
decline in the populations of large mammals has taken place due to village-based hunting in the region.
III.           Flora
3.             The Mayombe consists largely of dense closed forest. Large, often deciduous trees tower above
a tall, evergreen subforest. Given the extreme humidity, epiphytes are rare. The moist valleys and riparian forests
are particularly rich in Symphonia globulifera and Julbernardia brieyi.
IV.            Human Population
4.             The Mayombe forest harbors a human population of approx. 27,000 inhabitants, living in two
prefectures. Average population density is 4.6 inhabitants/km2. From the 1930s through the late 1980s, inhabitants
have participated in a cash economy, based first on employment for railroad construction, then mining, and later
forestry exploitation. Presently, hunting and cultivation of food c,ops are the main economic activities. Given a
lack of reliable transport for agricultural products, villagers have found little alternative to hunting gamemeat, which
is now officially prohibited in the Dimonika reserve.



42
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
5.              The Dimonika reserve has benefitted from five years of UNDP/UNESCO, but little has been done
to create alternative activities for the local populations in and around the reserve. These populations have been
prohibited from hunting. The existing reserve management has spent several years conducting surveys on the
attitudes of the local people towards the reserve and on actions the local populations would like to see as a result
of the reserve, but little has been carried out. During the project preparation, the Bank team visited the reserve and
discussed some of the main problems with the local manager of the reserve and members of the local communities.
The local populations want protection measures to parallel the development of alternative activities, such as
aquaculture and the harvesting of non-timber forest products.
V.              Conservation Activities
6.              The Dimonika-MAB project in the Mayombe has to date benefitted from UNDP and UNESCO
funding, and a collaboration with ORSTROM, utilized mainly in gaining greater scientific knowledge of the
ecosystems characteristic of the zone and economic activities, with some development of basic infrastructure.
Studies carried have revealed a high degree of biological diversity, protection of which is justified within the priority
objectives of the GEF.
7.              The MAB project was designed chiefly to create a fully functional MAB-Dimonika reserve, so that
the resident biodiversity could be protected at the same time as development in neighboring communities was
assured. Despite judicious zoning of the reserve, the resources mobilized to those ends have been inadequate, with
the result that the traditional modes of harvesting wildlife in the region have remained unchanged, while there is
growing hostility on the part of the population to the introduction of protection measures. This is mainly a
consequence of: (a) the inadequate nature of the resources devoted so far to creating basic infrastructure and to day-
to-day management; (b) uncertainty as to the status of buffer zones and the zone of influence, and the extent of
restrictions on the taking of game in them; (c) the heavy impact of human activities on the natural environment --
a result of the presence of itinerant gold prospectors and of a number of villages located in the middle of the reserve
(buffer zone 1), the presence of large communities south of the zone of influence, and the proximity of the railway;
and (d) the gradual winding down of logging operations, involving a corresponding degree of deterioration of forest
access roads and a significant decrease in the sources of revenue available to forest inhabitants.
8.              GEF activities will focus chiefly on:
(a)     the establishment of an effective system of protection for the reserve; and
(b)     the involvement of local population groups more closely in the new policy of natural
resource management to be introduced -- a policy that must necessarily go hand in hand
with a substitution for forest resources withheld and/or the development of alternative
sources of income.
9.              Given that the current situation is complicated by the fact that the local population sees itself in
conflict with reserve protection and that a protection team will be constituted for the first time, the GEF project will
finance: (1) a technical assistant for ihe first two years of the project, and (2) support for transportation and guard
equipment in order to establish an effective management system under the DFFC.
10.            An outreach officer would coordinate interactions between the reserve and local populations. This
officer will establish a dialogue with surrounding villages concerning natural resource use, conservation and
management. He/she will help local people identify economic activities providing alternatives to over-exploitation,
and will facilitate development of promising suggestions as well as protection of the reserve. Similar to the cases
of Conkouati and Lefini, the officer will be the project liaison with the MUCODEC investment program, which will
be established in the area to provide the financ.al means to implement selected alternatives.



43
Annex 9
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND NIANAGEMENT PROJECT
l,efini Reserve
I.              Back2round
1.              Located north of Brazzaville on the, Lefini reserve is a vast zone (630,000 ha) of savannah and
gallery forest stretching 210 km from north to south, its southem limit lying some 90 km north of Brazzaville. It
was designated as a reserve in 1951 (Decrees 3671 and 7262 in 1984). In 1963, the fauna in the area was declared
to be fully protected. At the present time, the zone itself is only partially protected.
2.              Lefini is situated at an altitude of approximately 650-700 m on the limestone Bateke plateau,
traversed by deep (c. 310-380 m) river valleys. The Lefini River, running from west to east, has several small
tributaries, chiefly the Louna, Loubilika, Djouele and Nambuli. The river valleys range from those that are deeply
set, with little or no floodplain, to those that are broad and edged by forest, marsh and savannah. The vegetation
of the Bateke plateau is mainly tall-grass savannah with scattered shrubs and patches of forest; its slopes, which
grade rather abruptly down to the rivers, consist of a mosaic of short-grass savannah and patches of forest that
extend out from the river beds.
II.             Fauna
3.              Various studies on the zone and discussions with inhabitants of local villages have confirmed the
presence of various animal speciLs in the reserve, including elephant, hippopotamus, buffalo, sitatunga, duiker
(grey, blue), bushbuck, red forest hog, aardvark, jackal, lion and two monkey species, Cercopithecus neglectus and
Cercopithecus cephus.
4.              Animal population density, however, is low. This is undoubtedly due to a combination of two
factors: (a) the soils found in the reserve are of such low fertility that their associated large mammal carrying
capacity is correspondingly low; and (b) heavy hunting pressure has reJuced some populations to extremely small
numbers.
III.            Flora
5.              The Lefini reservc houses different types of vegetation cover in a mosaic of forest and savannah.
The plateau area (approximately 650-700 m in altitude) consists mainly of high-grass savannah studded with shrubs.
6.              Although there are different kinds of vegetatio. (savannah, forest and swamp), these habitats
contain relatively few species. Similarly tae ecotones separating different types of vegetation cover are not very
rich in species, although they can be peculiar. Savannah in other parts of Africa is much richer in species, which
may indicate that the Congolese savarnah is of cornparatively recent origin. The forest richest in species is found
on the plateau, but even this is relatively poor compared to forests in the north of the country and in the Mayombe.
IV.             Human Impact
7.              Only sparsely populawd, the reserve contains a small number of villages, mainly on the ring road
north of the Lefini river and west of the Nonhern Road. There is also a major village at Mbouambe, at the point



44
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
where the Northern Road and the Lefini intersect. On the plateau, cassava and groundnuts are grown between long
fallow periods. The same two crops are also grown in the vicinity of roads (leading to the east and north of the
reserve) and villages (where different species of trees, but particularly mango and oil palm, are also cultivated for
harvest).
8.              Pressure from hunting is heavy along the Lefini and Nambouli rivers, which are deep enough to
allow navigation in dug-out canoes with outboard motors. Mbouambe appears to be a center for trading in meat,
whether intended for local consumption or other destinations. The present condition of the road does not allow
access to Mbouambe, but once the current repair program is completed and traffic increases, the zone would
probably be subject to still greater pressure from human activities. Most hunting takes place by day with guns, or
by night with spotlights to flush the animals out of their hiding places.
9.              During project preparation, populations living along the highway and next to the reserve were
consulted. There was a consensus amongst the populations that the wildlife was decreasing dramatically and needed
to be protected. Most of the illegal hunting was for commercial purposes. It was determined that the areas outside
the fully protected core areas would still permit the little subsistence hunting required to support the populations.
V.              Actions Complementary to Prolect
10.             The southern border of the Lefini Reserve has been identified as a likely site for introduction of
gorillas by the Gorilla Protection Project, a program financed by the Howletts and Port Lymphe Foundation and
coordinated by the DFFC. This project has been established to accept gorillas confiscated from sellers or owners
by governmental authorities, bring them back to health, and eventually reintroduce them to a wild habitat. At
present, confiscations and healthcare are well under way, and personnel are now designing a second phase project
to implement reintroduction. Partial financing is promised from the founding organization, but complementary funds
would be required to be able to execute the next phase.
VI.             Proiect Activities
11.             The strategy so far followed for conservation of the natural environment of Lefini has focused on
protecting fauna throughout the entire 630,000 ha of the reserve. Given the pressure created by growing demand
for bushmeat in Brazzaville, protection efforts have failed completely. This has been evidenced by inventories,
which indicate that wildlife is becoming increasingly rare, chiefly because of the activities of poachers employing
guns.
12.             Effective protection of the entire Lefini reserve would require a large investment of resources, and
repopulation of the reserve at characteristic densities would require a lengthly period of time. Given that this is
currently not justifiable, due to the combination of depressed animal populations and personnel and financial
constraints, the project would initially focus on selected sites and activities to begin the process of recovery.
Therefore, the project would concentrate on protection and management activities in two areas: (a) the Lake Bleu
area, at the southern border of the reserve, where gorilla introduction efforts are planned by thL Project for the
Gorilla Protection Project; and (b) the Mbouambe area, the northern part of the reserve where higher animal
densities are found, and where surveillance is facilitated by ready access via the Lefini River and its tributaries.
Each of these areas affords promise of tourism potential, and thereby the possibility of recovering recurrent costs.
Success on these fronts would allow expansion of conservation activities to other portions of the reserve in the
future.
13.             Project activities, to be executed directly by DFFC in conjunction with the Gorilla Protection Unit
(GPU), would include:



45
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
(a)     development and implementation of a detailed reserve management plan;
(b)     reinforcement of protection activities undertaken by reserve personnel (including provision
oflogistics, operational costs, supplemental personnel);
(c)     partial assistance to the gorilla introduction program, to provide a focus for conservation education
and tourism; and
(d)     establishment of an integrated outreach program with local populations, combining dialogue and
public awareness concerning reserve protection and natural resource conservation, with facilitation
of resource substitution and/or development of alternative economic activities.
14.             The project component of gorilla introduction near Lake Bleu would be conducted along the same
lines as that for chimpanzee reintroduction in the vicinity of Conkouati Lagoon, in that every effort would be made
to stop poaching, and thereby break the cycle of poaching/confiscation/release of confiscated animals. It would also
be regarded as an experiment likely to pave the way for media presentation of the need to protect the large primates,
which continue to be hunted for meat and live sale. In addition to considerable scientific interest, the experiment
is also likely to provide an appealing "product" as far as tourism development in the zone is concerned (attracting
a clientele from Brazzaville and possibly beyond), and therefore to contribute ultimately to recovery of the recurrent
costs of the project.
15.             The Lake Bleu area in question, however, is at present outside the reserve. It should therefore
be considered as the subject of a decree designating it as a protected zone. Current and customary use of this area
by must be fully identified and considered, and consensus with local people sought on allowable uses of the area
to be zoned.
16.             An outreach officer would be named by the DFFC to coordinate interactions between the reserve
and local populations. This officer would establish a dialogue with villagers concerning natural resource use,
conservation and management in each of the two project focal areas. He/she would help local people identify
economic activities providing alternatives to over-exploitation, and would facilitate development of promising
suggestions as well as protection of the reserve. Similar to the cases of Conkouati and Dimonika, the officer would
be the project liaison with MUCODEC and other locally established project. The project would provide assisatnce
for the MUCODEC to be established in the region and would provide the financial means to implement selected
alternatives.



46
Annex 10
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Lake Tele - Likouala-aux-Herbes Site
I.              Background
1.             Situated in the Congolese Cuvette in northern Congo, the site of Lake Tele - Likouala-aux-Herbes,
covers a total of 1,050,000 ha, and constitutes a very particular inundated forest and swamp ecosystem. Although
it has no legal status as a protected area, it is nevertheless considered a "protected forest" and has not been divided
into forestry concessions for logging. The main human impact in the area is hunting, however the site is considered
to be relatively undisturbed. Approximately eight scientific research missions have been carried out since 1981
around lake Tele, but the results of these missions focus primarily on the characteristics of the lake itself and to date
have had no influence on protection.
11.            Flora
2.              The flora and vegetation of the site is very poorly known and needs to be studied in detail. The
majority of the site is covered with permanently or semi-permanent inundated forests and swamps.
The remainder of the site is made up of dense forest and floating savannahs of Granineae and Cxperaceae.
The inundated and primary dense forests which cover the site on the congolese-zairois cuvette are in pristine
condition and are some of the best examples of inundated forest which most likely dried considerably during the
pleistocene era.
III.            Fauna
3.              Several short zoological expeditions have been conducted in the site under the direction of Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institute. The focus of these expedition has been the area surrounding lake Tele. The results
show 41 species of fish (several endemic species), 50 species of birds, 12 species of primates (including gorillas
and chimpanzees) and other diverse mammals (elephants, otters, situngas etc.). A very large population of pythons
also live around lake Tele. The fauna in the site is still relatively untouched and represent important populations
of a large proportion of Congo's animals.
IV.             Human Population
4.              The area around the site is relatively unpopulated (I inhabitant/kinr), except for the large villages
which border the Sangha and Likouala-aux-Herbes rivers. Human pressure is therefore localized to noninundated
land next to the major rivers. The majority of the villagers are fishermen and hunters (mostly from the Bometaba
tribe and pygmies). The hunters in the area are generally restricted to the noninundated land, and although thc
influence of hunting on the animal populations is hard to measure in the arca, the pressure is still light for most
animals, with the exception of elephants. However, the improvement of the road fiom Impfondo-Epena has greatly
increased the number of monkeys and antelopes hunted. Alternative agriculture activities are difficult due to the
patchiness of the noninundated land.



47
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
5.              To date, few consultations have been undertaken with the local populations, although several
groups of foreign researchers have been in the area. The gazetting of the site will be undertaken in conjunction with
the Government's commitment to establish a RAMSAR site, thus consultations with local populations and gazetting
of the site will occur over the first few years of project activities. The villages around the site still maintain a
traditional control over their land, so care would have to be taken to consult carefully will all communities
concemed to ensure their involvement.
V.              Existing Actions
6.              Although several proposal have been put forth to gazette the site by various services of the
Congolese Government, the area does not yet benefit from any protection. A small grant was awarded by the
RAMSAR convention to prepare a document to have the site declared a RAMSAR site, but the RAMSAR
convention has not yet been signed by Congo and no management of the area has begun.
VI.             Proiect Interventions
7.              The long term  objective is to provide Congolese institutions with a model for integrating
biodiversity protection and rural development in wetlands protection.
8.                      Activities in Lake Tele/Likouala-aux-Herbes would be executed by IUCN, in collaboration
with the national RAMSAR working group and DFFC. The project would:
(a)     produce the baseline data and documents for the gazetting the site;
(b)     establish a preliminary management plan integrating local land use patterns and laws with
management of the site;
(c)     define alternative activities for local populations, such as ecotourism and aquaculture;
(d)     develop educational and sensitization activities on natural rcsource management for local
populations; and
(e)     solicit long-term external financing for the site.
9.              The project interventions would constitute a first phase of a long term project and would be
executed over three years.  The preliminary phase of these interventions would bc consultations with local
populations, socio-economic studies and biological inventories. These baseline data would be used to define the
limits of the site and the core and multiple use areas. Another priority would be the development of a plan for
alternative economic activities for the local populations. This would be based on traditional way of life in the area
and local land use practices.
10.            The project interventions at the site would be executed by IUCN in collaboration with the DFFC
and the RAMSAR working group. In this capacity, IUCN would help the Government of Congo solicit external
funding to support the RAMSAR working group (established in 1991) and finance a national program for wetlands
conservation and management.
11.            The delimitation of the site would be done in collaboration with the concerned institutions (namely
DFFC, CERGEC and CERVE) and with the local populations. The accent would be placed on developing a village-
based management system where villages practicing traditional land use rights would manage areas of the site.



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Organizational Chart
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning                Ministry in Charge
of Protected Areas
Peer       - - - - - -      Project Management Unit           - - - -   Technical Steering Committee
Review                                  (PMU)                                          (TSC)
Committee
Actions at the central level
Herbarium          Map Database    Training and             Monitoring       Audit and         Institutional,
(CERVE)             and GIS          Sensitization          Evaluation       Accounting       Regulatory and
(CERGEC)              (PMU)                (PMU)           (PMU)           Population Studies
Actions at the local level
Nouabal6-Ndoki             Conkouati         io|  Lefini                         Lake Tele           Others
(WCI/Univ.de Kyoto)        (IUCN)                            (DFFC/GPU)            (IUCN)            (DFFC)
Leqend
( )  -  executing agency
CERVE -  National Herbarium
CERGEC -  Geographic Research and cartographic Production Center
DFFC  -  Direction of Fauna and Flora Conservation
WCI    -  Wildlife Conservation International
IUCN  -  World Conservation Union
GPU   -  Gorilla Protection Unit
N.B. This Organizational Chart is only valid until the Mid-Term Review of the project (PY3); after that date, the permanent
structure applies.



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS P'ROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT COMPONENT
PMU      Trainii    Consult.     CERGEC   CERVE    Nouabale   Conkouati  Dimonika   Lcfini          Lake TU26   Total
-------- ----------------M-i-----------------------------------------(CFAF Million)- ------------------------------------------- -------------------
lnvestment Costs
Reservecivil works        19,044      -           -          1,300      2,0(i)    95,341      27,110     18.200      53.763      2.002    218,759
Other civil works                           -                           -         38,260      18.200      7,800      18,980      7,800      91,040
Gim^Js                    6,552                  -           -          -           6,(078    F0,041      2,522      13,790      5,616     54,600
Vchicleslboats            12,392      -                      -          6,500     40.974      27,021     12,565      28,930      9,411     137,793
Office equipment          12,038      -          -          19.358     14,698      15.964     14,729      2,418      10,881      3,094     93,180
Office supplics           0,536       -          -          0,812       1.560       -          1,040      2,600       -          0,119      6,667
Research Equipment         -                -                -          8,600     25,008      34,482      8,014      13,875      5,568     95,547
Shipping                  5,200       -          -           -          -          8,052       6.50(0     3,900       -          -         23,652
Residentexperts          101,500      -                    55,728      38,852    162.055      91,986     81,542       -         21,142    552,805
Total Investments        157.262                           776198      72.210    401722    231.108    139561    140.219                  1.274.04
Recurrent Costs
Salaries                  95,363      -           -         2,340      15,662    183.941    116,601      40,113      70,197     18,789    543,006
Travel                     5,556      -           -          3.280      3,280      26,400      2,888      1,620       1,056      3,100      47,180
Vehicle 0 & M             10,568      -           -         2,116       5,290     46,736      13.474     22,200       8,606      6,160     115,150
Equipment 0 & M           37,576      -          -          0,538       3,228      5,662       7,102       -         8,393       0,188     62,686
Other 0 & M                6,857      -           -         3.142       5,864      6,104      21.524      4,053      19,308      6,321    303,173
MUCODEC                   26,750                             -          -          4,815       2,430      16,100      1,170      2,010      53,275
Consultancies             25,017      -        309,810       -          8,323      59,463     21,920       -          -          3,636    428,169
Other incr. Op.          102,000    284,200       -          3,620      9,656     45,293      51,932       -          8,260      7,120    512,071
NGO Management             -          -          -           -          -         62,165      56,669     16,257       -         14,563    149,655
Total Recurrent          309.68     284200    309.81        15036      5.304    470750    294.539    100,243    116.99          62,888   2.014.367
Total baseline cosis        466.949    284.20     309.810     92,234    123.51      872,302    525.648    239904    257,209    116,641   3.288.410
Physical contingencies   51,147      57,840     56,962       1,867      7,670     67.714      37,838     14,411     23,708       8,325    327,482
Price contingencies       22,080     16,984     14,739      2,346       3,235     37,503      19,106     10,028      7,451       3,996     137,468
Total proiect costs         540.,176    359.024    381.511    96,447    134.418    977.519    582.592    24,34         288,368    128.962   3.753,360



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96  96/97    Total    92/93   93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    Total
CFAF Million                                        SUS Million
Investment Costs
Rcscrve civil works               161.011     38,437      12.529     6,783      0.000    218,759       0,619     0,137      0,045       0,024      0,000      0,826
Othcr civil works                  88,400      2.640      0,000      0.000      0,000      91,040      0,340      0,009      0,000      0,000      0,000      0,209
Goods                              50,430      4,170      0,000      0,000      0.000      54,600      0,194      0,015      0,000      0,000       ,000       Q38)
Vehicics/boats                    120.140      2,891     12,89')     1,863      0,000    137.793       0,462     0,010       0,046      0,007      0,000       0525
Office equipment                   93,180      0,000      0.000      0,000      0,000      93,180      0.358      0,000      0,000      0,000      0,000       00
Office supplies                     5,798      0,455      0,414      0.000      0,000       6,667      0,022      0,002      0,001      0,000      0,000        5
Research equipment                 73,980     15,140      3,158      2,602      0,667      95.547     0,285      0,054      0.011       0,009      0,002       Qk2
Shipping                            18,720     2.466      2,466      0.000      0.00(0     23,652      0,072      0.009      0,009      0,000      0.000       0pl)
Residcnt expcrts                  181,588    160.746    131,128     58,108     21,235    552,805      0,698      0,574      0,468       0,208      0,076      2,024
Total Investments                 7)3,246    226,946    162,594     69,356      21.902 1274.043        3151       0,811      0 581      0,248      0.078      _4_
Recurrent costs
Salaries                          135,104    146.645    136.201    132,331      0,000    550,287       0,520      0,527      0,488      0,474      0,n00      2,009
Travel                              13,614     12,813     13,093     7,.61      0,000      47,180      0,052      0,046      0.047      0,027      0,000       qlt72
Vehicle 0 & M                      31,756     30,383     28.102     24,90)      0,000    115,150       0,122      0,109      0,10()     0,089      0,000        0
Equipment O & M                     16,712     17,483     17.4'0     9,860       1.142     62,686      0,064      0.062      0,062      0,035      0,004       q?2
Other 0 & M costs                   1,144     34.144      34,441     33.159     2,283    105,173       0,(X04     0,122      0,123      0,118      0.008       q37
MUCODEC                             11,830     16,200     14,175     11,070     0,000      53,275      0,046      0,058      0,051      0.040      0,000      0,1'4
Consultations                      155,747    98,875     94,217     79,330      0,100     428,169      0,59')4    0,353      0,336      0,283      0,000        1572
Other iner. op.                    146,276    134.270    136,910     80,414     0,000    497,871       0,563      0,480      0,489      0,287      0,000       ll8
NGO management cost                68,011     38,166     26,229      16,714     0.534     149,655      0,262      0.136      0,094      0,060      0,002       q553
Total Recumfnt cost                80194      528,981    5(1ttN58    395454      3.95 2,0),446         2,         1.893      1,790      1,iu       t,0_14      7312
Total Baseline costs                 1.3734470 7552         663,452    464,810      25.861   .283.489      5,283      2,704      2371       1,661      009        12110
Phtysical contingencies               134,597     74,080     65,681     47,875      0,728    322,961       0,517      0,265      0,237      0,171      0,003       1,193
Price contingencies                     0,000     28,725     51,749     55,312      3,923      39,7()      0,00(      0,103      0,185      0,198      0,014      (q,
Total Proiec1 cogts                  1.50837    658,732    7N0.882    5677         30.12   3.746.159       5.800      3.072       2.792      2.030      0.109       Up



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLA-NDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CONIPONENTS BY YEAR
FY 93         FY 94         FY 95         FY 96          FY 97
(92/93j       (93194)       ('w4/9 )      (L' <961)      (96Q7)         Total
----------------------------------------------(CFAF  Million)---------------------------------------------
Baseline .osts
PMU                          127,192        96,716        92,388        43,654          -            359,950
Training                      78,000        79,200        79,2(X)        52,800         -            289,200
Consultancies                158,600        89,420        89,420         56,170         -            393,610
C.E.R.G.E.C                   50,740)       19,659        18,339          2.495         -             91,234
C.E.R.V.E                     81,639        11,048        18,994         10,832         -            122,513                                            Ln
Nouabal-Ndoki                307,367       223,296       176,477        158,955        15,207        881,302
Conkouati                    252,392       112.125        95,550         65,581          -           525,648
Dimonika                     101,921        62,181        37,080         31,784         8,938        241,904
Lefini                       198,853        78,370        79,749        73,268         46,869        477,109
Lake Tel                       7,210        2724          19,586         12.01                       116.641
Total baseline                 1413,91        799.259        700.785       5(X,141         71(13       3499,111
Physical Cont.                61,362        54,575        53,020)        30,467         0,628        200,052
Price Cont.                   28,540         6,841         6.507          4,808         0,300         46,996
Grand Total GEF                1503.814       860.675        766,312       543,416         71,9423     3746,159



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMNMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
92/93    93/94    94/95       95/96   96/97      Total                    92/93        93/94   94/95      95/96      96/97    Total
-(CFF-Mllin)USS-n)---------(CFAF Million)-------------------------------  ----------------------------------(US$ Tousand)----------------------
Investment Costs
Reserve civil works               163        37        12         7         -       219                       604        137        44        26          -       811
Other civil works                  89         2         -         -          -        91                      330          7          -         -                 337
Goods                              50         4         -         -          -        54                      185         15- -                 -                 200
Vehicles/Boats                    121         3        12         2         -        138                     448          11        44         7          -       510
Office Equipment                   93         -         -         -          -        93                      344          -          -         -         .       344
Office Supplies                     7         -         -         -                    7                       26           -         -         -         -        26
Research Equipment                 75        16         3         2         -         96                      278         59         12         8         -       357
Shipping                           19         2         3         -          -        24                       70          7         12         -         -        89
Resideni Expens                   190       157       127        57        21        552                      705        583       470        211        78      2047
Total Investment Costs            807       221       157        68        21       1274                     2990        819       582        252        78      4721
Recurrent Costs
Salaries                          141       142       132       128          -       543                      522        526       489        474                2011
Travel                             14        13        13         7          -        47                       52         48         48        26          -       174
Vchiclc O h M                      34        30        27        24          -       115                      126         III      too         8'          -      426
Equipmenit O & M                   18        17        is         9         1         63                       67         63        67         33         4       234
Other O & M costs                   1        34        34        32         2        103                        4         126       126       119         7       382
MUCODEC                            12        15        15        11          -        52                       44         55         55        41          -       195
Cunsultations                     164        '6        92        76          -       428                      607        356        342       281          -      1586
Other Ificr. Op. Costs            158       136       138        80          -       512                      584        504        511       296          -      1895
NGO nuanagement costs              72        37        25        16          -       150                      267         137        93        59         -       556
Total Recurrent Costs             614       520       494       383         3       2014                     2273        1926      1831      1418         11     7459
Total Baseline Costs                 1421       741       651       451         24      3288                     5263        2745      2413      1670         89     12180
Physical coitingcitcics           143        72        65        46         1        327                      530        267        241       170         4       1212
Price cotttingcjwics                -        29        51        54         4        1.18                        -        107       188       2(1))      is       510
Total Proiect Costs                  1564       842       767       551         29      3753                     5793        3119      2842      2040        10S     13902



53
Annex 13
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated disbursement schedule and profile
A.     Disbursement Schedule a/
Bank's                   Bank's
FYS                    Semesters                      Per Semester        Cumulative
US$ Million                       %
1993                      II                              0.6                              6
1994                        1                             1.2                              12
II                            2.2                              22
1995                        1                             3.4                             34
11                            5.0                              50
1996                        1                             6.2                             62
II                            7.4                              74
1997                        I                             8.6                             86
11                            9.4                              94
1998                        1                            10.0                             100
a/     Based on Africa-wide standard disbursement profile for agriculture (June 1992).
B.     Disbursement Profile



54
Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ImMlementation Schedule I/
Task                                  Completion Date                 Agencv Responsible
- Calendar for deployment of          Negotiations                   DFF
of field staff                       (Oct. 26, 1992) (*)
- Preparation of project work         Negotiations                   MEFP/DFF
program for CY93                     (Oct. 26, 1992) (*)
- Establishment of bidding            PPA Program                    MEFP
documents for key project            (Nov.-Dec. 1992) (*)
contracts
- Preparation of M&E methodology      PPA Program                    MEFP
and CY93 work program                (Nov.-Dec. 1992) (*)
- Consultations with                   PPA Program                   DFF
local populations over               (Nov.-Dec. 1992) (*)
alternative activities
- Procurement of key project vehicles,    PPA Program                MEFP/PMU
goods and equipment                  (Jan. to March 31, 1993)
- Preparation of work program         PPA Program                    MEFP/DFF
for the establishment of the         (February 1993)
Trust Fund
- Stopping of issuance of logging     Grant Effectiveness            MEF
permits in project priority sites    (March 31, 1992)
- Creation of Project                 Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
Management Unit (PMU)                (March 31, 1993)
-Selection of Project Coordinator     Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
and two high-level management        (March 31, 1993)
staff
- Establishment of Technical          Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
Steering Committee                           (March 31, 1993)
1/An asterisk (1) denotes a task already completed.



55
Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
Implementation Schedule (Ct'd)
- Establishment of                     Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
Peer Review Committee                (March 31, 1993)
-Issuance of tax exemption for         Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
project-related activities            (March 31, 1993)
-Deposit of CFAF 5 million on          Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
project account                      (March 31, 1993)
- Signature of two separate twinning   March 31, 1993                 PMU/CERVE/
arrangements between CERVE and                                       CERGEC
CERGEC on one hand, and two
foreign institutions on the other
- Arrival of Principal Technical       March 31, 1993                 PMU
Advisor (PMU) and Technical
Assistants for CERVE and CERGEC
- Arrival of Technical Assistance      March 31, 1993                 PMU
team for Conkouati
-Arrival of Technical Assistant for    May 1, 1993                    PMU
Dimonika
- Project Launch Workshop              May 3-8, 1993                  PMU
-Arrival of Technical Assistance team  June 30, 1993                  PMU
for Ldfini and Lake Teld
-Beginning of deployment of government June 30, 1993                  DFFC
staff in the reserves
-Finalization of key M&E indicators    June 30, 1993                  PMU
-First semi-annual report              June 30, 1993                  PMU
-First local NGO consultation          June 30, 1993                  PMU
-First TSC meeting                     June 30, 1993                  PMU
- Tutelage of Dimonika Reserve         June 30, 1993                  DFFC/MDTS
transferred to the Ministry
in charge of protected areas
- First meeting of the Peer Review     December 15, 1993              PMU
Committee



56
Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
Implementation Schedule (Ct'd)
- First audit of project accounts      April 30, 1994                 PMU
-Plan for review of the general        June 30, 1994                  MEFP/DFF
legislation concerning protected
areas
-Preliminary steps to gazette the      June 30, 1994                  DFF
project sites
- Mid-Term Review mission              June 30, 1995                  PMU
- Mid-Term Review report               September 30, 1995             PMU
- Enactment of new legislation         December 31, 1995              MEFP/DFF/MEF
concerning protected areas
- Establishment of Trust Fund          December 31, 1995              MFPE
- Establishment of national permanent    December 31, 1995            MFPE
management structure in charge
of reserves (NPMS)
- Adoption of legal statutes for       December 31, 1995              MFEP
the project priority sites
- Full government staff deployment in  December 31, 1995              DFF
project priority sites
- Grant closing date                   December 31, 1997
- Project Completion Report            March 31, 1998                 NPMS
Le2end:        CERGEC          National Geographic and Cartographic Center
CERVE          National Herbarium
DFF            Direction of Flora and Fauna Conservation
MEFP           Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
MEF            Ministry of Water and Forestry
MDST           Ministry for Technical and Scientific Development
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
NPMS           National Permanent Management Structure in charge of reserves
PMU            Project Management Unit
TSC            Technical Steering Committee



57
Annex 15
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Irriementation Schedule
Task                                   Completion Date               Agency Responsible
- Calendar for deployment of          Negotiations                   DFFC
of field staff                       (Oct. 26, 1992)
-Preparation of project work          Negotiations                   MEFP/DFFC
program for CY93                     (Oct. 26, 1992)
- Establishment of bidding            PPA Program                    MEFP
documents for key project            (Nov. -Dec. 1992)
contracts
- Preparation of work program         PPA Program                    MEFP/DFFC
for the establishment of the         (Nov.-Dec. 1992)
Trust Fund
- Preparation of M&E methodology       PPA Program                   MEFP
and work program                     (Nov.-Dec. 1992)
- Consultations with                   PPA Program                   DFFC
local populations over               (Nov.-Dec. 1992)
alternative activities
Stopping of issuance of logging      Grant Effectiveness            MEF
permits in project priority sites    (December 31, 1992)
- Creation of Project                 Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
Management Unit                      (December 31, 1992)
- Selection of Project Coordinator    Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
and two high-level management        (December 31, 1992)
staff
- Establishment of Steering           Grant Effectiveness            MEFP
Committee                            (December 31, 1992)
- Establishment of                    Grant Effectiveness            MFPE
Peer Review Committee                (December 31, 1992)
- Procurement of ke) project vehicles,   January 15 to               PMU
goods and e(;uipment                 March 31, 1993



58
Annex 15
Page 2 of 3
ImDlementation Schedule (Ct'd)
- Signature of two separate twinning   March 31, 1993                  PMU/CERVE/
arrangements between CERVE and                                        CERGEC
CERGEC on one hand, and two
foreign institutions on the other
- Arrival of Principal Technical       March 31, 1993                  PMU
Advisor (PMU) and Technical
Assistants for CERVE and CERGEC
- Arrival of Technical Assistance      March 31, 1993                  PMU
team for Conkouati
- Arrival of Technical Assistant for   May 1, 1993                     PMU
Dimonika
- Arrival of Technical Assistance team  June 30, 1993                  PMU
for Lefini and Lake Tele
- Beginning of deployment of government June 30, 1993                  DFFC
staff in the reserves
- Finalization of key M&E indicators   June 30, 1993                   PMU
- First semi-annual report             June 30, 1993                   PMU
- First local NGO consultation         June 30, 1993                   PMU
- First TSC meeting                    June 30, 1993                   PMU
- Tutelage of Dimonika Reserve         June 30, 1993                   DFFC/MDTS
transferred to the Ministry
in charge of protected areas
- First meeting of the Peer Review      December 15, 1993              PMU
Committee
- First audit of project accounts      April 30, 1994                  PMU
- Plan for review of the general       June 30, 1994                   MEFP/DFFC
legislation concerning protected areas
- Preliminary steps to gazette the     June 30, 1994                   DFFC
project sites
- Mid-Term Review mission              June 30, 1995                   PMU
- Mid-Term Review report                September 30, 1995             PMU



59
Annex 15
Page 3 of 3
Imrlementation Schedule (Ct'd)
- Opening of project account           September 30, 1995             PMU
- Enactment of new legislation         December 31, 1995              MEFP/DFFC/MEF
concerning protected areas
-Establishment of Trust Fund           December 31, 1995              MFPE
- Establishment of permanent           December 31, 1995              MFPE
national structure in charge
of reserves
-Adoption of legal statutes for        December 31, 1995
the project priority sites
- Full govemment staff deployment in   December 31, 1995
- Project Completion Report            March 31, 1997
project priority sites
Legend:        M/E             Monitoring and Evaluation
PMU             Project Management Unit
DFFC           Direction of Flora and Fauna Conservatioa
MFPE           Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plannrig
MEF            Ministry of Water and Forestry
MDST           Ministry for Technical and Scientific Development
TSC            Technical Steering Committee
CERVE           National Herbarium
CERGEC          National Geographic and Cartographic Center



60
Annex 16
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
CONGO WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGENIENT PROJECT
Environmental Analvsis
I.     Issues raised in the Environmental Analysis
1.     Long-term Biodiversity iprotection. Overall, the project will have a positive impact on the conservation of
Congo's biodiversity. It should be viewed as a baseline catalyst to long-term biodiversity conservation in
Congo. The positive impacts from the GEF will be greater protection and management of biodiversity than
currently exists in Congo. If large tracts of forest and wetlands are legally set aside for strictly biodiversity
conservation then a major global contribution will have been made by the GEF. However, it is very
important to clarify that these reserves should not be viewed as the only areas in need of biodiversity
conservation. Rather, extensive surveys and management actions will need to be undertaken to identify
and conserve biodiversity throughout Congo including within the UFAs.
2.     Sustainability.   Some kind of a professional Congolese staff and infrastructure should emerge, although
this will depend upon the GEF's capability to provide for recurrent costs after the four-year period of the
Congo GEF. The ultimate success of the project will depend upon the capacity of Congo to continue
biodiversity conservation after the GEF funding expires. A major risk and thus environmental impact could
be the folding of the project after the GEF's money has been spent and what little is earmarked for a trust
fund cannot sustain the initiative in the long term.
3.     Local populations.  The concerns of local populations not yet weaned from poaching and other resource
extraction in reserves will have to be mollified. Local populations, especially in the vicinity of most
existing reserves, may be disadvantaged by a cut off of traditional sources of food and other products.
Proposed GEF studies may be able to address this issue and examine alternatives. Tn general, there will
have to be some allowance or mitigation for hunting and other resource extraction by indigenous peoples
in protected areas. The rate of game meat and other extractions will have to be determined in each reserve.
4.      Environmental assessments.  Detailed management plans must be developed for each reserve and those
management plans subjected to an environmental assessment.
5.     Inclusion of other areas. The project needs to emphasize that more biodiversity probably needs to be
protected outside of the GEF sites. The GEF is a catalyst for biodiversity conservation. Regarding
protected areas, it would be advantageous for the GEF to condition the grant with assurances for the
establishment of more reserves in Congo. Although resources may be stretched thin, the GEF could still
call for the establishment of a protected area in the Mt. Nabemba-Garabinzam area.
6.     Relationship between the GEF and other IBRD proiects.  It should be clear that the Congo GEF
biodiversity conservation should not be viewed as mitigation for other natural resource management
endeavors by multilateral and bilateral organizations. The GEF does not free other Bank actions in
Congo, for example, from looking out for biodiversity in the EAs for those actions. The GEF is not a
biodiversity mitigation bank which futurc or concurrent Bank development actions (e.g., road building,
logging, plarning, etc.) can draw from.



61
Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
7.      Training.  Biodiversity conservation is a very technical matter and will require numerous university-
educated Congolese as well as vocational training of technicians, park guards, etc. Completion of the
wildlife school in Garoua, Cameroon may be sufficient for a chef de poste with a high school education
but the conservator of a protected area should at least be a college graduate. The Congo GEF should
consider promoting a wildlife and fisheries or similar conservation department, or at least some ecology
and natural resource management classes, at the university in Brazzaville. In addition, one of the protected
areas could be suitably equipped to serve as a university field station or training site for students.
Peace Corps volunteer teachers could be employed at the university and field level.
8.      Monitoring. Given the current political instability and indebtedness of Congo and the lack of trained
personnel in Congo, project monitoring by the Bank and the Project Management Unit will be crucial to
success.
9.      Consultation Meetings.   The EA process is supposed to consider the views and recommendations of
Congolese and local NGOs. Such consultations are vital to increase local cooperation and understanding.
The inclusion of another 1.5 million ha of land into a system of protected areas is a major decision affecting
Congo's future. At a time when Congo is moving toward democracy, public participation should be
encouraged. The indigenous people, who live near or inside of existing and proposed protected areas, may
rely upon game meat and fishing in those areas and may want to voice their opinions on the establishment
and management of protected areas. Those living near or inside of existing protected areas may view their
use of those areas as part of their livelihood even if their decade-long use of those areas may have been
illegal.
10.    To date there have been several discussions, including the appraisal mission, with Congolese officials.
These appear adequate for the general approach of the GEF. Some international NGOs which will
implement the GEF have been working with Congolese for several years and have become familiar with
part of the socio-economic setting in which reserves must function. The Man and the Biosphere
Dimonika site evidently has paid little heed to local aspirations and much work and confidence building will
be required during the management plan formulation. It is during the formulation of management
plans for each of the reserves that the most fruitful interchange will take place to make local populations
part of reserve management.
II.     How the issues raised will be dealt with in the project
I1.    Lon-g-term Biodiversity protection. The Congo GEF project would be the first in a series of interventions
in the Congo to protect biodiversity. The project would act as a catalyst to attract other donors and
projects. The establishment of a trust fund would also reinforce the country's capacity for sustainable
biodiversity protection.
2.      Sustainability. This issue will be addressed through several means: (a) the establishment of a trust fund;
(b) the development of economic alternative activities; and (c) the application of Government resources
which are available for the reserve protection, but which have never been systematically used.
3.      Local populations. The reserve management plans would include designating core areas where no hunting
or commercial extraction would be permitted and multiple use areas and buffer zones where some
subsistence hunting and resource extraction would be permitted. The activities planned at the reserve level
would include the development, with the local communities, of alternative activities to be funded through
the project, and/or by other donors and in conjunction with other projects (in particular the National
Agriculture Extension Project).



62
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
4.      Environmental Assessments. The management plans and work programs for each reserve would be
submitted to the Technical Steering Committee for review at least six months prior to execution. If any
activity poses a potential environmental threat, the TSC would require an environmental assessment before
implementation.
5.     Inclusion of other sites. The PMU and the herbarium would work together to identify areas outside the core
five GEF sites suitable for inventories and surveys.  These areas will include the Mt. Nabemba-
Garibenzam, Mt. Fouari and Massif du Chaillu areas. The gazetting of Mt. Nabemba-Garibenzam would
have to be preceded by a series of inventories and sociological studies to establish where the limits of the
reserve should be. The PMU would begin these preliminary steps under the project with the goal of
eventually gazetting the new areas.
6.     Relationship GEF/IBRD proiect. The GEF project would not be viewed as mitigation for other possible
IBRD or related projects. All other IBRD projects would follow the operational directives and guidelines
put forth by the World Bank and would take into consideration all World Bank policies, including the new
forest policy.
7.     Training. The training component of the GEF project would focus primarily on guards, conservators and
reserve personnel. This training would focus on-the-job training. A complementary project funded by the
U.S. Government, the ATLAS project, will train higher level personnel and will fund undergraduate and
graduate degrees for high-level decision makers in the field of natural resources and protected area
conservation. In addition to this, Peace Corps volunteers would participate in reserve management in three
reserves: Nouabal6-Ndoki, Conkouati and Dimonika.
8.     Monitoring. The monitoring and evaluation component of the project will be an extremely important
component of the project. A national specialist in the PMU would be in charge specifically of overseeing
the Monitoring and Evaluation program. He/she would be assisted by international short-term consultants.
At the reserve level, the program would be similarly designed and executed by trained staff, supported by
the PMU and international short-term consultancies.
9.     Consultation Meetings. Preliminary consultations with some local populations have been conducted, but
further consultations will be required before management plans are designed. Given their importance, these
are due to start before grant effectiveness under a special Project Preparation Advance (PPA).



IBRD 23526
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                              CENTRAL AFRICAN  R;L
PROJET DE CONSERVATION ET                                                              \   7    .- --r--
D'AMENAGEMENT DES AIRES PROTEGEES    _
PROPOSED PROTECTION AREA SITES                                                                                                           J o
3 GEF PROTECTED AREA SITES
LES SITES PROTEGEES DE GEF                                                           A    EOO
_   MIXED CLOSED FOREST))                                                                                                   O-                      , 1 
FOREr OMBROPHILE MIXTE
I INUNDATED FOREST
-r FORET INONOFF                                                                                                                                            -7
[ 3FORET CLAiRE                                                 '       X'             t>}S                                            "      -                + 
I GRASSLAND SAVANNAMS
ISAVANES HERBEUSE'S                                            9                 _  
F.'!.::  SAVANNAH AND GALLERY FOREST
SAVANES HERREUSES ET FOREr MESOPhILE                      /G
-    WETLAND SAVANNAHS                                                                                                                       ALA-AUX
PRAIRIE S FLOT TANTES                                                                                                                  L
d NATDONAL CAPITAL
CAPI TA LE
MRAIN TOWNS
VILES PRINCIPALES
-rr PRIMARY ROADS, PAVED                                                                              '.
ARTERES PRINCIPALES, PAVE
PRIMARY ROADS. GRAVEL AND EARTH
ARTERES PRINCIPALES, GRAVIER ET TERRE
__     SECONDARY ROADS, EARTH
ROUTES SECONDAIRES. TERRE
RAILROADS
VOfES FERRES
RIVERS                                                                      r
RELiVES EUVES                                                                                                                                       5R      100    150 R1IO.MTRS
-    MARSHES                                                                                   /
MARAIS                                                                                                    rM   LES
__  REGION BOUNDARIES                 -f                                                                     S.  -s 
LIMITES GE REGI0ON                                 I-                                                                                                      4- ~
- _,_  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                         RPA/       ATE'AU
FRONTIERES WlNTElNATIONALES
NIGERIA                             SUDAN
', LEKO        U -  r                                                                           CENTRAL
A  ~~~~~~~~~~EIICAMEROON                                                                        '- .
AEO N  IC ON G3
Cc VOTI  ~ ~     ~          ~              ~~         -    <r~~ -- ~ZAIRE                                Aln/
Ocean          ~~ANGOLA   ~
I5 r                                                                                                     I,  5 \  \  r I  '                                 r-  ZAMBIA
FEBRUARY 1992






12-                                                                                                                                      IS-               _
C O N GO                                             \        CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.-*
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE CONSERVATION ET                                                            -                                       o
D'AMENAGEMENT DES AIRES PROTEGEES                                                                    \                                             ,  
PAYED ROADS-                                         )l C  AM ER OJ o  N                               i
EQRIJES SlwMEE5                                                                                      jO
EXISTING ~-  't-t
EXISTANVES,
UNDER CONSTRUCTION             F            ARolo   ToM ,, .                          ,d|'
EN CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                              2 On-
GRAVEL ROADS                                                         *\                                                          4
ROUTES NON-REVFTUES   ~                                                                                                                     1  _\4 w,,-4_ ., 
EXISTING                   .                                                            OU                                M,_IMlD 
EXISTANTES                 (     A o
UNDER CONSTRUCTION         N                                                           K.
EN CONSTRUCISON
....UNDER REHABILITATIONT.M
EN REFECnTON
V   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ~    -       ~       1
RAILROADS                                                                                                                              J.r
CHEAIINS XE FER                            To M.1on,bo   4" d=
RIVES RS                                             .iOOd,                                                                                 \'
MARSH                                            2                  teb no    \Y-ngo
+  MAIN APORITS                                                                                                E Nokono 
AEROFORTS PIEKcPAL
PORTS                                        /Ndo  -o                       * 0  *  MoM  
NATIONAL CAPITALS$                                                   0-
e      CAP!TALES NATIONALES                                                                 o     O                                                      ZAIRE
t REGION CAPITALS                                                           8.              D          ANIRE
CHEFS IIEUX DE REGION                                          .                                 NDO
OTHER TOWNS AND VIlLAGES                                    j                    0 6                               _
AUTRES VISIES ETV LOCALITES                                      !-                                                                      L7        ,
INTERNATIONAt BOUNDARIES                                   loG p,-, bo,                  0    o            -                  -"
FRONrlfRES INTERNATIONAIESi                                        (                     <         ^B ,             /                       'l
NUMBER OF INHABrTANTS
NOMBRE D'HABTANTS
LKILOMETERS             !                              T. If                                                                                     60tz_ VJ,0
> n~~~~~~T D       --l                   0                          Edo                t         Mi.                         RGO   OUDRE 
50,             2*-
<. _ Pnum;ou ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 8                                                                                    <Sym( IX AB  N.>R
\\        c--_R\\ -Muv,'U
T. =7=="C  XXw
IX'00
XEGION ROUJNDARIES
LIMXITIS OE REGION      u UALA
M.-d, ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ AMPO 
M .di.         IO U B    oOn                      od. *  
M     Soingo. .  B.1                                                   K oo.'?                                                                   E
MIbood  Soo,o   6    ~         1N ALA               KINSHASA                                            PLATEAUXE
-I  1                               ~~~~~~~~~~~Mboo Rbo *
* Iond4lo-Koyo, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O'  Xoho                                0             B~~~~~~~19AZZAVIRLE
,  T.  C bo S.                                                                                                                               --I------- -









Congo
IlZIIIiUlllUl U lUHREEllJlID
US$ 15
Printed on recycled paper



