Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20378
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(28622)
ON A
GRANT
mN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION
TO THE
PREPUBLIC OF CONGO
FIOR A
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
05/17/2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective I US$= 270 CFAF until January 11, 1994, and CFAF 540 Thereafter)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
540 CFAF = US$ I
US$ 1 = CFAF 599 (Jan - Apr 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CERGEC       Centre de Recherches Geographiques et de production cartographique
(Geographic Research and mapping center)
CERVE        Centre d'etudes sur les ressources vegetales
(Center for research on plant resources)
CGP          Cellule de Gestion du Projet (Project Management Unit)
CITES        Convention on Trade of Endangered Species
CTP          Comite Technique de Pilotage (Project's Steering Committee)
DFF          Direction de la Faune et de la Flore (Ministere des eaux et Forets)
Wildlife and Flora Directorate (Minsistry of Forestry)
FED          Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GTZ          Agence Allemande pour la Cooperation Internationale (German Cooperation Agency)
HELP         Habitat Ecologique et Liberte des Primates (ONG locale) (Ecological Habitat for Primates)
HPLF         Howlett-Port Lympne Foundation (ONG Internationale)
MAB          Man and Biosphere (programme UNESCO)
MAEF         Ministere de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Eaux et Forets (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry)
ORSTOM       Institut Fran,ais de Recherche Scientifique pour le Developpement en Cooperation (French Institute for
Scientific Research for Development in Cooperation)
PAFT         Programme d'Action Forestier Tropical (Tropical Forestry Action Program)
PNAE         Plan National d'Action Environnementale (National Environmental Action Plan)
PNUD         Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement (United Nation's Development Program)
PPG          Projet Protection des Gorilles (Gorilla Protection Project)
PROGECAP   Projet de Gestion et de Conservation des Aires Protegees (Protected Areas Conservation and Management
Project)
RAMSAR       Convention Internationale pour la Protection des terres humides (International Convention on Wetlands
Protection)
SIG          Systeme d'lnformation Geographique (Geographical Information System)
TFFAP        Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UFA          Unitd Forestiere d'Amenagement (Forestry Management Unit)
UFE          Unite Forestiere d'Exploitation (Forestry Development Unit)
UICN         Union Internationale pour la Conservation de la Nature (International Union for the Conservation of Nature)
WCS          World Conservation Society (anciennement New York Zoological Society)
WWF          World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:        Serge Michailof
Sector Manager/Director:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Noel Chabeuf



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  6
6. Sustainability                                                                      8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    10
9. Partner Comments                                                                   11
10. Additional Information                                                            12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 23
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                      24
This documnt has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipie                             only in the
perfomance of their official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000535                                      Project Name: WILDLANDS PROTECTION
Team Leader: Noel Rene Chabeuf                           TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: May 17, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: WILDLANDS PROTECTION                           I/CITFNumber: 28622
Country/Department: CONGO, REPUBLIC OF                                  Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.                                          Effective: 03/06/93          10/13/93
Appraisal:  03/16/92                                 MTR: 06/30/95              11/25/96
Approval:  03/03/93                               Closing:  12/31/97           06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V. Jaycox
Country Manager.     Serge Michailof                           Michael J. Gillette
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        Theodore Nkodo
Team Leader at ICR:   Noel Chabeuf                            Jean-Claude Balcet
ICR Primary Author:   Karen Richardson; Noel Chabeuf
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. UN
Institutional Development Impact. M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to provide support to protect the ecosystems of Congo; undertake
biodiversity conservation management activities; and promote alternative economic activities for local
populations surrounding the protected areas.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not modified and were found to be still valid at the Mid-term Review in
December 1996.



3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of five parts, each with several components.
Part A. Establishment and equipping of the Project Management Unit, the Technical Steering Committee
and the Peer Review Committee. This part consisted of:
*   Formulation of a comprehensive regulatory and institutional framework.
*   Surveys of local populations.
*   Monitoring and evaluation of activities.
*   Training of staff and execution of educational campaigns.
*   Study to establish a Trust Fund.
*   Participation in sub-regional programs focusing on the preservation of ecosystems.
Part B: Strengthening of the National Herbarium. This part consisted of:
*   Improving the capacity of the technical staff of the herbarium.
*   Upgrading the existing national botanical database.
*   Formulation and execution of twinning arrangements with overseas herbaria.
Part C: Strengthening of the cartographic database and geographic information system. This part consisted
of:
*   Establishment and development of a database for protected areas.
D   Establishment of a unit for interpretation of aerial photographs and satellite images.
v   Strengthening mapping activities.
*   Formulation and implementation of twinning arrangements with interested overseas counterpart
institutes.
Part D: Protection and Management of Gazetted Protected Areas. This part consisted of:
•   Inventories of species and the ecosystems.
3   Development and execution of management plans.
* Formulation and carrying out of scientific research programs.
*   Training of staff in protected area management.
*   Formulation and implementation of pilot activities aimed at alleviating pressure on fauna and flora.
Part E: Support to Priority Protected Areas. This part consisted of:
*   Support to the Nouabale-Ndoki site including support for basic infrastructure; training of staff; and
studies on the flora, fauna, and needs of the surrounding local population.
* Support to the Conkouati Reserve including support for biological inventories and studies; defining
core and buffer zones; strengthening the capability of DFF to re-introduce chimpanzees seized from
poachers; a formulating and implementing detailed management plan; and surveys on the
socio-economic dynamics of populations surrounding the Reserve.
*   Support to the MAB-Reserve of Dimonika including support for the establishment of a protection
system; buffer zone delineation; and incorporation of local communities in the formulation of a new
policy for the Reserve.
*   Support to the Lefini Reserve including support for formulating and implementing a detailed reserve
management plan; reinforcing reserve protection operations; supporting current efforts to reintroduce
gorillas reclaimed from poachers; and formulating and implementing a public awareness program.
*   Support of the Lake Tele/Likoula-aux-Herbes site including support for collection of baseline data
necessary to gazette the site; formulation of a preliminary management plan for the site; development
of altemative activities for surrounding communities; formulation and implementation of an
- 2 -



educational and awareness; and mobilization of additional funding.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were reviewed at the Mid-Term Review (MTR). Most of the components were still
considered to be relevant. Two components were dropped and two components were modified. The
implementation of several of the components was delayed or hampered by the three civil wars that occurred
during the project and the suspension of disbursements on the grounds of financial mismanagement by the
Government. Modifications to components included:
(a) Establishment of a Trust Fund. The scope of the component, a study to establish a trust fund aimed at
mobilizing additional funds, was greatly reduced in scope. A consultant carried out a preliminary study that
the Bank deemed unacceptable. Due to political instability, lack of donor interest and management
problems within the project, the establishment of the trust fund was dropped.
(b) Support to Dimonika: Support to the Reserve of Dimonika was withdrawn in 1998 after serious delays
in the execution of any activities in the reserve due to: (i) the lengthy search for an executing agency (an
international NGO signed a contract for the site in August 1995); (ii) a breach of covenant 3.01(a) granting
a prospecting permit with a gold mining company within the reserve limits; and (iii) conflicts with the
scientific researchers still occupying the main buildings on the site previously managed by the
UNDP-funded "Project Mayombe". Initial efforts to provide support to the site in 1996 through the
nominated executing agent, Micro Corps Development (MDC), resulted in the looting of a vehicle and the
majority of equipment during the civil unrest of 1997.
(c) Support to Lefini: Support to the Lefini reserve was modified. The reserve was divided into two parts,
Lefini-South and Lefini-North. A section of the southern part was designated a sanctuaiy, Lesio-Louna for
orphaned gorillas. Howletts and Port Lymph Foundation (HPLF) expanded its original mandate with the
project to provide some of the protection and management activities associated with this part of the Lefini
reserve. Implementation of activities in the northern part of the reserve was severely delayed and the
activities were greatly reduced in scope due to the lack of a partner executing agency to work with the
Direction of Flora and Fauna (DFF) and political unrest. By project end, a draft agreement between WCS
and the Government to carry out some activities was still under consideration. From 1997 to project
closure, WCS and DFF completed several baseline socio-economic and biological inventories in
Lefini-North.
(d) Support to Other Sites: The component to carry out supplementary studies and inventories of sites
outside the priority five sites retained by the project was cancelled due to limited resources, personnel and
project disruptions.
(e) Institutional Arrangement: The management structure of the project was modified in December 1994 to
include an Interministerial Monitoring Committee (IMC) consisting of the three ministers responsible for
planning and finance, forest economy, protected areas, and representative from the Prime Minister's and
President's offices. The IMC was officially created by decree in March 1998. After the MTR, the
establishment of a permanent structure was replaced by a restructured Project Management Unit (PMU)
consisting of a national coordinator, an accountant, support staff and representatives of each of the
executing agencies (WCS, IUCN, HPLF, CERVE, CERGEC, DFF).
(f) Re-allocation of funds: Based on the finding of the MTR, funds were re-allocated based on the further
needs of certain components and the withdrawal of other components.
(g) Proiect Closure: Date of project closure was extended until June 30, 1999.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The performance rating for quality at entry was Satisfactory (S). At entry, the main risks associated with
project implementation, the relative political instability of the country and the potential conflict with other
land uses, were identified to be largely outside of the project's control. The project design was based on: (a)
an emerging government commitment to environmental issues, as demonstrated by the Law of Environment
-3 -



(1991), a new Ministry of Environment and a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP); (b) two
complementary projects being developed by the Bank: a rural development project and a natural resource
project; (c) baseline scientific surveys for the five priority project sites; and (d) participation of field-based
international NGOs with long-standing reputations for conservation efforts in the region (WCS) and
international conservation policy (IUCN). The project underestimated the potential for national instability,
as three civil wars erupted during the project. The project also overestimated the local capacity to manage a
large-scale conservation project. The project was officially placed under the Ministry in Charge of
Economy, Finance and Planning. This was due to in part to: (a) the sentiments towards the project from the
then Minister of Forest Exploitation that the project would reduce forestry revenue by restricting access to
areas; (b) the lack of authority within the Ministry of Forest Exploitation over protected areas. Protected
areas were officially under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Environment, Tourism and Leisure, however,
flora and fauna were the jurisdiction of the DFF under the MFE; and (c) the Bank's view that in light of its
new Forestry Policy (OP 4.37), a biodiversity conservation project should not be managed by a Ministry of
Forest Exploitation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of Objectives is rated marginally Satisfactory (S). The project was successful in protecting
several of Congo's important ecosystems by establishing a national park, Nouabale-Ndoki, in primary
closed forest; a community reserve at Lake Tele; an inundated forest; a sanctuary at Lefini-South
(Lesio-Louna) in savannah and gallery forest; and reinforcing the Conkouati Reserve in mixed gallery
forest. However, the achievement of objectives is considered marginal due to the impact of civil war and
unrest (1993, 1997, 1998), the high turn over of senior Government officials that delayed many activities,
and the numerous misunderstandings between Government and the Trustee (GEF) regarding project
objectives and implementation. Although the project pre-dates the introduction of the logical framework
approach, such a framework was created on the basis of the Staff Appraisal Report. Annex 1 to this
Report includes the logical framework and key performance indicators for the project.
The project was instrumental in: (a) carrying out extensive scientific and socio-economic studies; (b)
drafting management plans for Nouabale-Ndoki, Conkouati, and Lake Tele; (c) training personnel,
including surveillance and anti-poaching eco-guards; and (d) fostering local community participation and
the development of alternative economic activities, especially in the areas surrounding Conkouati.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project's different components yielded the following outputs:
Establishment of the Proiect Management Unit (PMU). the Technical Steering Committee (TSC)
and the Peer Review Committee (PRC). The project's PMU and TSC, and Local Site Committees (LSC),
with the addition of an Interministerial Monitoring Committee (IMC) after the fifth supervision, partially
realized its objective of providing an institutional framework for managing a national system of protected
areas. Although a permanent and autonomous administrative unit was supposed to be established after the
MTR, this was never accomplished due to problems with the technical assistance to the PMU, civil unrest,
and numerous misunderstandings between Government and the Trustee regarding implementation. The
four-tiered institutional arrangement described above and formally established after the Mid-Term-Review,
was marginally satisfactory in involving the three ministries involved in the project and other stakeholders
implicated in the establishment and management of protected areas. It made representatives of the NGOs in
charge of protected areas full members of the Project Management Committee as partners of the
Government, a significant improvement over the situation prior to the MTR. This resulted in increased
- 4 -



transparency of management, and mutual trust among partners. It was fully operational during the whole of
1998. The independent Peer Review Committee (PCR) only met once in December 1998 due to the political
instability, which was only half of the target of two evaluations programmed over the five years.
Strengthening of the National Herbarium. The efforts to strengthen the National Herbarium were
particularly successful. Despite significant loss of equipment and destruction of infrastructure, the project
salvaged the collections, refurbished new facilities, and replaced missing specimens through field
excursions. Support under the project enabled a twinning arrangement with Missouri Botanical Gardens
(MBG) and this allowed for the identification of several new species of plants, an upgrade of the specimen
database and training of personnel.
Strengthenin, of the cartographic database and geographic information system (GIS). This component
aimed at establishing a map database for protected areas in Congo and producing digital maps of the sites.
Digital maps were produced for 3 of the 5 sites in collaboration with the NGOs working in each site. The
target of training two staff in sophisticated GIS techniques and photo and satellite imagery interpretation
was accomplished. Results from this component were only marginally satisfactory as CERGEC
experienced many delays in the production of maps and digitizing of information due to the looting of
equipment and damage to infrastructure during and after civil strife.
Protection and Management of Gazetted Protected Areas. The targets for this component were met in a
marginally satisfactory manner. Nouabale-Ndoki was gazetted as a national park on December 31, 1993.
Lesio-Louna Sanctuary (Lefini-South) was gazetted a sanctuary on March 20, 1996. The Community
Reserve at Lake Tele/Likoula-aux-Herbes was gazetted on February 17, 1999, and was declared a
RAMSAR site of international importance on October 18, 1998. The management plan for the core area
Nouabale-Ndoki was adopted in 1995 and management plans for Conkouati and Lake Tele were drafted
and presented to Government before the closure of the project. The partnership with a logging
concessionaire over the buffer zone management plan for Nouabale-Ndoki was an innovative feature not
originally planned for, but one that sets a standard for other forested protected areas worldwide. However,
overall, this component was only marginally satisfactory, as the management plans for the Conkouati and
Lake Tele were not adopted before the project closure, which leaves them at risk of never being
implemented. The Govemment also breached a legal covenant by issuing a gold mining exploration permit
in Dimonika and a logging concession in Conkouati and no agreements for the long-term financing of the
sites were produced before project closure.
The success of the Govemment of Congo in becoming a member of the RAMSAR convention for the
protection of wetlands and a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Convention on
Climate Change helped strengthen the Govemment's intemational reputation on biodiversity conservation.
-5 -



Support to Priority Protected Areas. Support to the priority protected areas was satisfactory. The project
supported the installation of necessary infrastructure, the execution of baseline and extensive biological and
socio-economic studies, and the participation of local communities in protected area management, including
the identification and development of alternative economic activities in the areas surrounding the project
sites. The successful re-introduction to the wild of orphaned chimpanzees in Conkouati and orphaned
gorillas in Lefini-South (Lesio-Louna) is seen as a world premiere. The proposed co-management board
with local communities (COGEREN) in Conkouati accomplishes one of the goals of the component to
integrate local communities. The successes of this component can be attributed to the dedication and
commitment of the NGOs working in the sites. No expatriates or nationals left the country or abandoned
the project throughout the many civil upheavals witnessed by the project and this allowed for programs to
continue despite the loss of equipment, destruction infrastructure and displacement of personnel (for
Dimonika).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated Modest (M). The four-tiered institutional arrangement agreed
upon after the MTR operated successfully. The arrangement engaged the three ministers involved in the
project through the Interministerial Monitoring Committee (IMC), allowed for wide stakeholder
participation through the Technical Steering Committee (TSC), delegated the daily project implementation
to the Project Management Unit (PMU), and allowed Local Site Committees (LSC) to be involved in the
site-specific decisions. In addition, the independent Peer Review Committee (PRC), which only met once
during the project, provided an independent assessment of the project's progress. The TSC met 8 times over
the course of the project. After the MTR, the TSC acted effectively, monitoring and supervising the
executing agencies' programs and budgets. The PMU was greatly modified after the MTR. The modified
PMU included a national coordinator, an accountant from a private accounting firm, support staff and
representatives from each of the executing agencies (WCS, IUCN, HPLF, CERVE, CERGEC). The PMU
met monthly and minutes of each meeting were sent to the Bank. The LSCs met regularly. The LSC for
Conkouati sought official status as the managing committee for the reserve (COGEREN). -Lefini did not
have a formal local community committee, however HPLF held many consultations with the surrounding
villages. The institutional structure put in place after the MTR was in line with the NEAP and other studies
on protected area institutions in Congo. Moreover, the Government could easily sustain it after the closing
of the project and the structure was cross-sectorial and very participatory in nature.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was prepared under favorable conditions. The Government was in the process of establishing a
democratic process in the country, had completed a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and a
Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP), and had been identified as a good candidate for GEF funding.
USAID had agreed to provide start-up funding to Nouabale-Ndoki, GTZ expressed its interest in funding
activities in the buffer zone of Nouabale-Ndoki, and both WCS and IUCN were already conducting surveys
and studies in the country.
-6 -



Three civil wars occurred during project execution, in May 1993, June 1997 and December 1998. Each of
these upheavals caused serious delays to the project. They resulted in the loss of basic infrastructure in
many cases (CERVE, CERGEC and the PMU). The 1993 hostilities caused delay of the project start-up
and were not as serious as the 1997 war. The 1997 war seriously impacted the project and caused serious
disruptions, as most of the project vehicles were stolen; project infrastructure was destroyed; project
equipment, especially that of the PMU and CERGEC was stolen or damaged; the PMU and most of the
executing agencies headquarters had to be re-located to Pointe Noire temporarily; and expatriate personnel
were evacuated. The project did not suffer any direct fatalities linked to the wars, however the disruptions
caused many displacements and difficulties for project staff.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Govemment established the PMU and TSC in a timely manner, prior to project effectiveness. After
that, the Govemment moved slowly on approving other project components and requirements. This was in
part due to an excessive turnover of Government officials during the first few years of project
implementations. By MTR, the project benefited from a more stable government, however the hostilities of
1997 and 1998 disrupted the Government again. Although the project preparation identified the
Government's ability to cover recurrent costs to be weak in the short-to-medium term, the Government did
agree to make a nominal contribution to recurrent costs. The Government was unable to make these
payments in a timely manner. In addition, over $150,000 was used for ineligible expenses. These financial
problems resulted in the suspension of disbursements in early 1997. Upon repayment of the funds in March
1997 by the Government, the Bank recommenced payments, however the disruption in funds caused some
hardship for the executing.agents. The Government breached one of the Grant's legal covenants (3.01a) by
issuing a gold exploration permit in Dimonika and a logging permit in Conkouati. These caused the
withdrawal of the project from Dimonika and serious problems in Conkouati.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The main factors affecting project implementation and outcome which were subject to implementing agency
control can be divided into those factors related to the Planning Ministry and those factors related to the
PMU and the consulting firm (TA) hired to assist the PMU. The Planning Ministry ignored the project until
the MTR when serious action needed to be taken. After the MTR and the suspension of disbursements by
the Bank, the Planning Ministry took more interest in the project. By the MTR the implementing agent had
failed to carry-out the necessary analysis on the permanent institutional arrangement and had forgone a
trust fund due to inadequate studies and lack of interest. These had serious repercussions for the project.
The PMU and TA failed to establish a coherent management unit until after the MTR. They also
mismanaged the project's finances and caused many delays in disbursing funds to the executing agents. The
TA was deemed incompetent and their contract was cancelled after the MTR. The PMU did not carry-out
all the necessary studies and analyses agreed to in the grant agreement, and most of the components under
the PMU were greatly reduced in scope or cancelled.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The amount of the grant disbursed was slightly below the appraisal estimate (91.5 %), however several
components were dropped or reduced in scope. The detailed costs and financing tables in the project are
presented in Annex 2. These costs and financing reflect only the GEF financing and do not include the final
costs and financing of the partner agencies: USAID, GTZ and HPLF. These figures were not available due
to loss of records during the various upheavals. Financing for some of the sites was increased when it
became apparent that the civil wars were delaying and hampering activities programmed at the national
level and at several sites. Disbursement of funds to the sites was difficult during periods of war and was
only accomplished by the Bank allowing direct payments to the NGOs through their respective
headquarters. This flexibility in disbursements procedures allowed for the continuation of activities through
-7-



all three civil upheavals.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as Unlikely. The institutional arrangement put in place after the MTR is sustainable
if a few simple modifications are made. The greater uncertainty is the financial sustainability of the sites
after the cancellation of the trust fund component. WCS has secured some long-term funding for
Nouabale-Ndoki and is trying to establish a trust fund for it. Several oil companies and a logging company
near Conkouati have provided some support for Conkouati. IUCN has been slow at identifying other
sponsors for Conkouati. For Lake Tele, IUCN has yet to identified a sponsor for the continuation of
activities. Discussions with the Dutch Government were underway prior to the unrests of 1998. However,
HPLF's activities are privately financed by a British foundation and will continue into the foreseeable
future. As identified in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Government is not in a position to finance the
recurrent costs of the project in the short-to-medium term. This means that international donors will have to
be found in the near future and this may be difficult in light of the socio-political situation in Congo.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Considering that the project closed without a final supervision mission by the Bank due to security
problems, no specific transition arrangements were agreed. The Government developed a transition plan
that could be implemented with minimal financing. Essentially, transition rests on the Government's ability
to maintain the PMU, TSC and IMC and the continued cooperation and financial assistance of the
executing agents, in particular WCS.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. ] Lending:
The performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory. Project preparation was based on the initial groundwork
of WCS in Nouabale-Ndoki, IUCN in Conkouati and 20 months of project preparation. The Bank built
upon its experience in Congo of executing the NEAP and its participation in the TFAP. Project
effectiveness was delayed due to hostilities in mid-1993.
7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory. In total, eleven supervision missions took place and a
twelfth and final mission was planned before the hostilities broke out in December 1998 and never took
place. The Mid-term Review was carried out in November 1996. It was delayed by almost a year due to the
socio-political events of 1993/1994. The fourth supervision mission of November 21, 1994 put in place an
Emergency Action Plan (EAP) of agreed priority actions that had to be addressed to in order to achieve
tangible results by the MTR. The seventh supervision mission coincided with the MTR. It recommended
the cancellation of the technical assistance to the PMU and the re-structuring of the PMU to include
representatives of the executing agencies. The mission also confronted the Government over the issuing of a
gold exploration permit in Dimonika and the on-going problem with the logging concession in Conkouati.
Shortly after the MTR, the Bank suspended disbursements when the Government failed to pay its
counterpart funding and funds owed to the Bank due to ineligible expenses. Supervision of the project
continued during all of the hostilities and the project was kept running primarily by maintaining contact
with the NGOs through the internet and key personnel at the different NGO headquarters.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
-8 -



The overall Bank performance was Satisfactory. The Bank was very proactive in the project's inception and
paid close attention to the execution of the project due to its complex nature. During periods of suspension
of disbursements to the government and civil unrest, the Bank explored every possibility and solution to
continue the flow of funds to the remote sites so as not to disrupt project activities. This included
maintaining contact with the NGOs, making arrangements with different banks and re-directing funds to the
executing agencies based overseas who could transfer funds to the sites more effectively.
Borrower
7. 4 Preparation:
At preparation, the recipient's performance was Satisfactory. Congo was immersed in a new democratic
process and was keen to participate in the newly created Global Environment Facility. Environrmental
issues were being examined in the TFAP and NEAP and the Government was interested in forming
partnerships with international NGOs such as WCS. After appraisal, Congo gained non-accrual status with
the Bank. Since the GEF project was the only new Bank project being developed, the Government was
anxious to prove to the Bank that it could manage the project and actively participate in the preparation of
the project. However, Congo did not have a prior history of conservation projects and the local NGO
movement was incipient, thus the Government was not able to draw on past experiences and relied heavily
on the preparation team.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated marginally Satisfactory (S). The project started
just after major civil unrest and in an atmosphere that was somewhat hostile and unstable. The frequent
change of ministers in the first few years did not help the Government's perfonnance. Disbursements were
suspended in January 1997 due to financial mismanagement and failure to pay counterpart funding.
Counterpart funding was difficult to obtain and was always late. Despite these setbacks, the Government
succeeded in gazetting three sites and was receptive to conservation initiatives in general. After the MTR,
the Government made a concerted effort to restore the project and meet the project's objectives. The
creation of the IMC and the re-definition of the TSC and PMU allowed for renewed dialogue between the
project's various ministries and partners. From the MTR until the last supervision mission, the
Government's participation and progress was very satisfactory and the project was enjoying strong
government commitment and involvement. The Government had paid all outstanding payments to the Bank
and had made its counterpart contribution. Both the IMC and TSC met regularly and the PMU functioned
well with its new structure and role. The Government had begun to understand the importance of protected
areas and the international attention it could receive if they were well managed.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance is rated marginally Satisfactory (S). The Director General of
Planning was designated the official project person at the Ministry of Finances, Economy and Plan
(MFEP). After the MTR, the same person went on to be the National Coordinator of the PMIJ and hence
was in charge of project execution. His performance was mixed in both positions, as he had no prior
experience in conservation or managing a project. He did help to improve the management of the project
and the involvement of both the ministers involved and the executing agents. The role of the MWF was
strengthened after the MTR and this also helped improve the project implementation. As mentioned
previously, technical assistance to the PMU was cancelled after the MTR.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance is rated as marginally Satisfactory (S). Despite the civil strife, the Government
succeeded in gazetting three sites and pursued many project and conservation initiatives. Although the
Government mismanaged several aspects of the project, after a steep learning curve, its performance
-9-



improved dramatically.
8. Lessons Learned
Cross-Sectorial Project: The cross-sectorial nature of the project initially resulted in little ownership, as
the ministries involved had never worked together on a project and were unsure of each other's role. This
was exacerbated by the large role of international NGOs in the project. By project end, both of these
factors were seen as strengths and the success of the project can be attributed to both Government
partnerships (e.g. IMC) and the strong and independent role of the NGOs. Lessons learned include the
benefit of including NGOs directly in project management (i.e. as members of the PMU) so that when
government upheaval occurred, continuity was maintained. NGOs also provided cross-fertilization of ideas
and solutions to problems never encountered by the Government. And, the cross-sectorial nature and NGO
involvement attracted a lot of international media, which greatly assisted with national ownership and
international recognition.
NGO-involvement: The Project was the first GEF project to extensively involve conservation NGOs in the
identification, preparation, appraisal and execution of the project. The involvement of the international
NGOs from project inception helped mitigate some of the risks associated with short-term involvement, as
their commitment to biodiversity conservation in Congo after the life of the project is critical to the
sustainability of activities initiated by the project. Although the involvement of NGOs reduced the risk of
project components failing due to the lack of Government expertise, the quality of NGOs varied. The
field-based NGOs, with extensive experience in managing protected areas in nearby African countries,
provided the most consistent and high quality intervention. Other NGOs with less field experience were
idealistic and too ambitious. For all project sites, the presence of an NGO did influence the success of the
project in a positive way.
Innovative Partnerships: The project established several innovative partnerships. These included: (a)
partnerships between national and international institutions (e.g. herbarium and Missouri Botanical
Gardens); (b) co-management partnerships, such as the reserve management structure for Conkouati
involving local populations; and (c) industry and NGO partnerships, such as those established in
Nouabale-Ndoki for the buffer zone management with a forest concessionaire, and in Conkouati with forest
and oil companies. All of these were strategically designed to reduce the risks of conserving biodiversity in
isolation of some of the perceived threats. These partnerships also helped diversify the stakeholder basis for
conservation in Congo.
Institutional Arrangements: The institutional arrangement was designed to help mitigate the institutional
risks associated with the project. The arrangement shows that good management of complex conservation
projects can be achieved by having: (a) an interministerial oversight and monitoring committee ensuring
Government ownership; (b) a cross-sectorial Technical Steering Committee with representatives from the
various stakeholder groups including Government and NGOs; and (c) an independent Peer Review
Committee. These three committees fostered national ownership of the project.
Finally, the project and one of the NGOs working within the project, WCS, offer some valuable lessons
from the operational perspective: (a) flexible methods of disbursement, including direct payment to
executing agents outside of the Government, is essential for the continuation of activities in times of strife;
(b) the involvement of NGO partners in the design and preparation of the project is essential if they are to
be part of its execution; and (c) the recipient must have sufficiently trained personnel and capacity to
absorb large conservation projects.
- 10-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Recipient provided a report on the Project's Implementation Completion on August 25, 1999 which
contains 42 pages.
This report recognizes that the structures established in March 1998, as a follow-up to the
recommendations of the Mid Term Review, have been operational thereafter until the project closed, with
exception of the new episodes of civil war in the country. These are the Management Committee (replacing
the PMU), Steering Committee, Interministerial Monitoring Committee, and the Peer Review Committee.
But the lack of financial resources after the project closing has brought activities to a halt.
The Project Management Committee (PMU) consumed US$ 2.94 million (85% of the expected cost for this
component), out of which 85% was spent on a Technical Assistance contract with an international
consultant, which is not considered a very successful one by the Recipient. The Steering Committee met 8
times throughout the project, and was attended 5 times by supervision missions by the Trustee.
Disagreements occurred between the Steering Committee and the Trustee on several occasions, when
activities approved by the SC didn't receive a non-objection from the TTL. The Interministerial Monitoring
Committee established after the Mid Term Review, proved an effective way of actively involving
Government in the solving of project institutional issues. The Peer Review Committee, which should have
been established at project's inception, was established belatedly (mostly because international potential
candidates were deterred to apply by the civil unrest in the country) and was eventually able to meet only
once, during the last supervision and last Steering Committee meeting. It fulfilled its role by issuing a
report on the scientific achievements of the project, which was highly appreciated by the Steering
Committee.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers for this project
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from Wildlife Conservation Society: The Congo-GEF project was designed to promote the
conservation of important biological areas in Congo, and achieved significant progress toward this purpose.
A new national park was created (Nouabale-Ndoki National Park), the Conkouati Reserve was
strengthened, and some conservation attention was paid to the Lefini Reserve and the Lac Tele Community
Reserve. This is remarkable in light of the fact that the Congo went through three civil wars and sustained
insecurity during the life of the project.
In particular, the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) can comment best on that area in which it was most
directly involved: Nouabale-Ndoki. The GEF program provided much-needed funding, which made the
creation of the new national park possible, supported some basic operating costs, and allowed for vital
applied research. The research, which was a focus of GEF support (a complement of operating funds were
provided by USAID), was essential in the initial design of the park, structuring of park management
interventions, and establishment of strategies and policies for outlying buffer zones (including community
use zones, forestry concession lands, and safari hunting zones). In addition to funding, the GEF project
gave a higher profile to conservation initiatives in the country, especially among government personnel, and
thereby significantly contributed to the acceptance of Nouabale-Ndoki's national park creation and
maintenance. These factors were important in such decision-making, especially given the predominance and
weight that the logging industry displays in Congo. Finally, limited GEF funds were used to initiate a new
approach to conservation in the buffer zone forestry concession lands. This innovative program is now
proving directly beneficial to wildlife, and is beginning to receive international attention.
- 11 -



These successes are all the more remarkable given the fact that the GEF project was very poorly managed.
Firstly, the design of management was ill-conceived. All coordination responsibility was removed from the
department of government legally mandated to ensure biological conservation (Direction de la Flore et le
Faune), and this was done without real consultation with the department or Ministry. Secondly, a
quasi-independent structure was created to manage GEF reserves, creating a conflict between managing
agencies. Thirdly, the coordination unit was led by an incompetent consulting group, which also hired
Congolese without necessary background in protected area management. Poor administration of funds,
inefficient disbursement and use of funds, and bad professional judgments handicapped management of the
program. As an implementing NGO, WCS was left in the position of battling constantly for policies and
activities which would benefit conservation, and for reimbursement of funds properly expended. We would
recommend that future GEF projects be designed to encourage full coordination between government,
consulting, and NGO partners, but that disbursement of funds be conducted directly between the
implementing agency and the executing agents (i.e. between the World Bank and NGO directly, separately
from the World Bank and government department).
For these reasons it is not surprising that success was not forthcoming in other GEF Congo components
where a strong, committed NGO presence, with complementary funding, was not present. This was the
case in Lefini, where the government of Congo was sole responsible for implementation (until a contract
was signed with WCS), and in Dimonika, where international NGO representation was extremely weak.
Although progress was made during the life of the project, success is also uncertain for Conkouati and Lac
Tele, both areas where the implementing NGO demonstrated no prior commitment to site, and maintained
no significant presence once GEF funding had expired.
World Conservation Union (IUCN): Activities for the Conkouati and Lake Tele/Likoula-aux-Herbes
components were designed to help contribute to the maintenance of biodiversity at the sites while satisfying
the needs of the local populations. After five years of project activities under difficult circumstances, these
components were able to draft management plans for both the Conkouati Reserve and the Community
reserve of Lake Tele/Likoula-aux-Herbes. For both sites, the draft management plans were not only the
result of technical and scientific studies and surveys, but they were also the result of an open dialogue with
the identified stakeholders. In the case of both sites, this approach allowed for compromises to be agreed
upon for the management of natural resources and the establishment of a co-management board between
the executing agents and the local populations. However, these institutional arrangements are still
precarious due to the socio-political instability of the country. Without additional funding to carry-on
activities, these new institutions are fragile and subject to political and military interference. Regardless of
their future in an unstable political situation, the results attained by the projects in these two sites are
innovative for Central Africa. They include: co-management agreements with local communities, buffer
zones activities, the development of alternative economic activities and a log frame matrix of desired
outcomes.
10. Additional Information
1. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the project in November 1997 and highlighted the
troubled history of the project. The QAG noted the Government's financial mismanagement of the project
and the armed conflict during the project hampered the execution of several components. The QAG also
stressed the complexity of the project and the limited absorptive capacity of the Government to execute
such a project. Finally, the group recognized that the project was the first to extensively involve NGOs in
project design and implementation and among the first to commission an independent environmental impact
assessment.
- 12 -



2. The establishment of a permanent institutional arrangement was hampered by substandard technical
assistance to the PMU, civil unrest that led to frequent changes within the Government, and lack of
consensus on the structure of the institution. Two national consultations were held in Dolisie (March 1995)
and Brazzaville (May 1995) to address the issue. At the MTR, it was agreed that the IMC, TSC and
restructured PMU were adequate institutional arrangements in light of the political situation in Congo.
3. When the project was identified, the Bank was preparing both a rural development project and a natural
resource project. These projects were never appraised, as Congo went into non-accrual status with the
Bank. These projects would have provided funding for extensive alternative economic activities for
populations living near the project sites and would have complemented the limited alternative economic
activities funded by the project, which focused on conserving biodiversity. The project did successfully
develop several alternative economic activities for the surrounding populations, including small livestock
rearing, agricultural collectives, ecotourism, bee keeping and reserve management activities. The project
also provided some training on the development of activities. An example was villagers near Conkouati
were sent on missions to Zimbabwe (CAMPFIRE Project) and Togo for training on alternative economic
activities.
4. In addition to the development of alternative activities, the project provided some support to communities
to build schools (schools were built or repaired by the project in Nouabale-Ndoki, Conkouati and Lake
Tele), supply dispensaries and pharmacies, and improve living conditions through awareness campaigns on
sustainable management of natural resources. These activities were part of the development of alternative
activities and support to local communities and were carried out by the implementing NGOs through their
agreed upon programs.
5. The extensive looting and damage to infrastructure at both the national herbarium (CERVE) and
national cartographic institution (CERGEC) delayed and hampered several project activities. Despite this,
the project helped salvage the collections at the herbarium, refurbish new facilities for both CERVE and
CERGEC, and replace missing plant specimens by funding field excursions. Several new species were
identified during these excursions.
6. The extensive biological inventories and studies carried out in most sites have provided Congo with
excellent information on large mammal populations, forest regeneration and natural resource management.
7. Regarding achievements at the Protected Areas sites:
(a)   In Nouabale-Ndoki an effective protection and conservation structure was established, nationals
were trained for research and conservation, scientific research activities were carried out. 94.75% of the
funds allocated to this site was spent. The sister sub-program of PARCS was instrumental in training
nationals both for Nouabale-Ndoki and other project sites, but due to the general difficulties and
interruptions and suspensions of disbursements, only 41.42% of the amount allocated to this program was
disbursed.
(b)   In Conkouati 96.8% of the funds allocated to the site was disbursed. A site management center
with three houses and a building for offices was built, together with a control station and a guest house in
the center of the Reserve at Ngongo. More than 30 studies were completed. An area management plan was
developed, a local Committee for the management of Natural Resources was formally established
(COGEREN), game wardens were recruited and trained and surveillance patrols organized. Towards the
end of the project, the area was regazetted into a National Park with a core protection zone surrounded by
- 13 -



eco-development buffer zones including a coastal area. Assistance was provided to the villages on and
around the site (building of one school, rehabilitation of a dispensary, establishment of village pharmacies
in two villages, establishment of a small agricultural experiment/demonstration station, agricultural
extension), support was provided to the NGO "HELP" for the successful release of two groups of sub adult
orphan chimpanzees into a particularly well protected part of the Reserve. This was a world premiere.
( c)   In Dimonika, after a small international NGO was eventually and belatedly contracted in 1996 to
assist in the development of alternative activities for the local villages, and moved to the site, it was found
that the Government had granted a gold mining exploration pernit to an international company on the same
site. The project activities on this site were frozen until an environmental impact study had been completed,
and then cancelled. The NGO was redirected towards another site (Conkouati), but civil war broke out and
its activities were interrupted.
(d)    In Lefini studies on the rehabilitation of the Reserve were belatedly undertaken after WCS had
been contracted to carry them out, but there was not enough time left to implement development. Only
77.94% of the funds allocated to this site were disbursed. Meanwhile, the Gorilla Protection project moved
in the southern part of the site and established a base camp from which sub adult orphan gorillas were
released in the wild, a world premiere. 95.4 % of the funds allocated to the gorilla project were disbursed.
(e)    CERGEC was fully equipped, received Technical Assistance and training for the upstart of its
mapping unit, and started producing maps of the sites, but during the civil war all equipments were looted
and lost. 94% of the funds allocated had been disbursed. In spite of the possibility to reallocate funds for
the reequipment of the mapping unit, and despite the financial effort of the Government who rehabilitated
the facilities looted during the war, it was not possible to procure new equipment because security remained
too uncertain.
(f)    CERVE first rehabilitated the facilities and collections damaged during the riots of 1993, then
started a training program for young researchers and plant collections and inventories on the project sites. 4
plant species hitherto unknown to science were discovered in this process. Field work was several times
interrupted like other project activities by civil unrest and civil war. Altogether 62.4 % of the funds
allocated to this component were disbursed.
Overall, the Recipient estimates that the project met with mixed results with its major objectives of
establishing an institutional framework for conservation at national, regional and local levels, in part
because of the socio-political events, and in part because of a poor definition of objectives and poor
performance by some of the partners. A handicap was the diversity of stakeholders within Government,
resulting in delays and arguments when decisions had to be made (contracting of implementing agencies).
The Recipient report also contains information on the mishaps blamed on the Trustee and the implementing
agencies.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Establishment of permanent institutional    SAR target: Permanent structure in charge  Retained PMU and interministerial
structure                             of all conservation activities by PY3  committees
Appropriate legal status to Five priority sites  SAR target: Legal status of sites by PY3    Legal status granted to three new sites and
reviewed for one site. Support to one site
(Dimonika) was withdrawn
Develop altemative economic activities  SAR target: Identify and initiate alternative   Develop and executed several alternative
around sites                          activities                             economic activities
Adopt rational management plans       SAR target: Adopted management plans for Management plan for Nouabale-Ndoki was
each sites                            adopted. Plans for Conkouati and Lake Tele
drafted
Establish a long-term trust Fund      SAR target: Establish trust fund by PY3  Component withdrawn due to insufficient
information and interest of donors
Review of regulatory framework        SAR target Comprehensive review by PY3  Partial review of framework. Customary use
rights reviewed and extended to local
populations
Output Indicators:
Reduction in bushmeat for sale at urban  SAR Target Greatly reduce the amount of  The availability of bushmeat was greatly
markets as indicator of effective     bushmeat for sale                     reduced in the urban centers due to
anti-poaching campaign                                                      increased airport surveillance and river and
road patrols.
Government sign International Convention on SAR Target: Maintain Congo's record of    Govemment signed Convention on Biological
Biological Diversity and RAMSAR       endorsing relevant conventions by signing   Diversity, Convention on Climate Change,
Convention                            conventions relevant to project        RAMSAR Convention and declared Lake
Tele an important RAMAR site.
CERVE and CERGEC establish twinning    SAR Target: Long-term twinning        CERVE established a long-term twinning
arrangements with international institutions  arrangements                   arrangement with Missouri Botanical
overseas.                                                                    Gardens. CERGEC worked with a consulting
firm with no long-term arrangement.
Establish links with other            SAR Target: Link with ECOFAC and other  Good links with ECOFAC and other regional
regional conservation projects        regional GEF projects                 conservation projects e.g. Dzanga-Sanga
established.
There was no logframe exercise when the project was started.
End of project
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Project Management                                       0.87              1.42           140
Consultancies and Studies                                 1.28            0.90             63
Trust Fund                                               0.29             0.02              6
Training (mgmt. unit)                                    0.30             0.12             32
CERVE (herbarium)                                        0.38             0.20             44
CERGEC (cartography)                                     0.30             0.29             82
Project Preparatory Advance                              0.10             0.10             100
Nouabale - Ndoki                                          1.60            2.47             132
Conkouati                                                1.58             2.19             118
Dimonika                                                 0.62             0.28             38
Lefini                                                   0.66             0.54             70
Lake tele - Likouala                                     0.40             0.40             86
Others                                                   0.30             0.14             39
Total Baseline Cost                                      8.68             9.07
Physical Contingencies                                   1.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.42             0.00
Total Project Costs                10.10             9.07
Total Financing Required                 10.10             9.07
The difference between the actual total amount disbursed in this table differs from the actual total amount
disbursed in subsequent tables, as this table contains a request for payment from IUCN that is still
outstanding and was submitted to the PMU after project closure. A decision is still being made regarding
the payment. This table reflects GEF financing only.
- 16 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procumemet M ehod
Exependibme Ca       .    KX            NMB          oN..F.                    Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.48         0.78          0.00          1.26
(0.00)        (0.33)       (0.72)        (0.00)        (1.05)
2. Goods                      0.40          0.27         0.40          0.10          1.17
(0.40)        (0.27)       (0.40)        (0.00)        (1.07)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous (a)          0.40          0.00          0.14         0.00          0.54
(0.40)        (0.00)       (0.14)        (0.00)        (0.54)
5. Miscellaneous (b)          0.00          0.00         4.65          1.97          6.62
(0.00)        (0.00)       (4.65)        (0.00)        (4.65)
6. Miscellaneous (c)          0.00          0.00         4.31          0.00          4.31
(0.00)        (0.00)       (2.78)        (0.00)        (2.78)
Total                      0.80          0.75         10.28         2.07          13.90
(0.80)        (0.60)       (8.69)        (0.00)       (10.09)
Miscellaneous (a) = Vehicles
Miscellaneous (b) = Technical Assistance and Training (single source contracting of NGOs)
Miscellaneous (c) = Incremental Operating Costs and PPA (single source contracting of consultants)
Miscellaneous refers to various expenditures procured under contracts by the implementing NGOs.
- 17-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (8.96)         (0.00)          (8.96)
4. Miscellaneous (a)             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous (b)             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous (c)             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
I (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (8.96)         (0.00)          (8.96)
The project financed various expenditures, however they were procured under the various contracts
to the implementing NGOs using standard bank procedures.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
" Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
:  US$ imiillion;t: 
GEF                                       10.1
TOTAL                                     10.1
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
It would be difficult to figure out economic costs and benefits for such a project which by nature doesn't
aim directly at economic benefits. Furthermore, the disruption of project implementation by three episodes
of civil unrest or civil war was not conducive to economic stability. The impact of alternative activities at
project implementation sites remains uncertain due to their limited and localized nature.
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)  Missions:__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _
Sta  of Project Cy le                 No. of PersonsadSpeilty                       Perfornian0e Ratipg
_  -2 Ecohomists,*    etc.)                                  yemT  oi.  Devel0pment
Month/Yar.L C6unt .....i tyt                                      ;  ~*            .4 Progretss  Obeti fv eXff
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/30/92                        5    4 Enviromnent Specialists, I
Agricultural Economist
Supervision
02/23/93                         3   2 Environment Specialists, I           S                   S
Human resources Specialist
04/08/94                         1  Agricultural Economist                  S                   S
12/21/94                        3   Ag. Economist, Ecologist, Fin.          U                   U
Analyst
04/19/95                         2   Sr. Livestock Specialist,              U                   U
Ecologist
07/17/95                         4   1 Sr. Lvstk. Specialist, 2             U                   U
ecologists, 1 Financial Analyst
03/01/96                         3   1 Sr.Lvst.Spec, I                      U                   U
princ.Economist, I Fin. Analyst
12/20/96                        3   1 Sr.Lvst. Spec, I ecologist, I fin     U                   U
Analyst
04/25/97                         1   Sr.Lv. Spec.                           U                   U
02/27/98                         2   Sr. Lvst. Spec., Fin. Analyst          U                   U
07/03/98                         1   Sr. Livst. Spec.                       S                   S
12/22/98                        2   Sr. Lvst. Spec, Fin. Analyst            S                   S
ICR
03/30/2000                      2    Sr.Lvst. Spec., Ecologist
(b) Staff:
Stage of P      cle                         ActuLatest Estimate
~~~~X_ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    No  k.   Sta fw ee ks          0 Lj:Lji :i  .............. U S $    (,O>0 0) : 
Identification/Preparation                 147.2                         235.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                         79                          56.9
Supervision                                117.5                         152.4
ICR                                          6.0                         27.21
Total                                      349.7                        471.61
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
ISector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  * N  o NA
Z Physical                                 OH OSUOM ON *NA
M Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
1 Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZGender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
Cl Other (Please specify)
I Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
C1 Other (Please specify)
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                             Rating
Z Lending                                        OHS Os  Ou  OHU
X1 Supervision                                   OHS OS  Ou  OHU
Z Overall                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
The Bank was probably over-optimistic at identification and appraisal regarding the potential for
implementation of a conservation project in this country. There was an excessive turn-over of Task
Managers during the first two years of project implementation, but overall the bank was consistent and
resilient in a very difficult context.
6.2 Borrower performance                         Rating
2 Preparation                                    OHS *S  Ou  OHU
Z Government implementation performance          O HS O s  0 U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance              0 HS   s  O u  O HU
X Overall                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
The evaluation of the performance of the Recipient is considered marginally Satisfactory. It is blurred
by the impact of civil war and unrest (1993, 1997. 1998), with the subsequent turn over of senior
Government officials, and the numerous misunderstandings between Government and the Trustee regarding
Project objectives and implementation. The project management unit as it was initially established with
permanent technical assistance was not very successful and achieved little progress. The Management
structure established after the MTR involved Government and NGOs much more directly and proved more
effective, but suffered from grave difficulties during the two episodes of civil war in 1997 and late 1998.
Three of the four NGOs contracted to implement project activities at the sites can be considered successful
in consideration of their resilience and practical achievements despite the disruption of civil war.
Nouabale-Ndoki remained undisturbed, Conkouati and Lac Tele overcame their losses and survived; Lefini
survived direct war damage and successfully released the gorillas. Dimonika was the only site from which
the project withdrew.
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO, Comite Technique de Pilotage: Rapport d'achevement du Projet de Gestion
et de Conservation des Aires Prot6gees (PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO) (Fin d'ex6cution)
- 68 reports and publications on Nouable-N'Doki
- 33 reports and publications on Conkouati
- 8 reports and publications on Lac Tele
- 3 reports and publications on Projet Protection de Gorilles
- Projet de Gestion et de Conservation des Aires Prot6gees- Mission d'Evaluation a Mi-Parcours Mars
1997.
-Statements of mission objectives, back-to-office reports, Supervision reports, and Aide-Memoires. Congo
- Wildlands Conservation and management Project (GEF Grant 28622 COB)- 1993-1999.
- Disbursements Database and reports- Congo - Wildlands Conservation and Management Project (GEF
Grant 28622 COB). World Bank's Integrated Controller's System 1993- 1999.
- 23 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
PROJET DE GESTION ET DE                    REPUBLIQUE DU CONGO
CONSERVATION DES AIRES                       Unitt * Travail * ProgrMs
PROTEGEES
PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO
Comite Technique de Pilotage
Secretariat
-24.-



1. INTRODUCTION
L'Accord de Don signe le 4 Mars 1993 entre la Republique du Congo et la
Banque Mondiale, relatif au financement du pi ojet de Gestion et de
Conservation des Aires Protegees du Congo (PF'OGECAP/GEF-CONGO)
stipule A l'annexe 3 alinea 9 (qut'aiu pluis tard le 30 juin 1998, le bincificiaire c'est-a-
dire le Gouvernernent Conigolais sotuniet a l'Adiniiistrateuir du Doti (Ban que Mondiale
un rapport d'adi&)ettien t du projet).
En application de cette disposition, le Gouvemement Congolais presente dans
ce rapport les elements relatifs aux acquis du projet qui a demarre depuis 1993
ainsi que quelques pistes de reflexion susceptibles de conforter les resultats
sur le terrain et de garantir la conduite des operations futures de conservation
et de gestion des Aires Protegees et notamment celles se rapportant a la
valorisation des acquis du GEF.
Le pr6sent rapport s'articule de la mani6re suivante:
* La partie 1 traite des generalites sur le projet notamment le rappel des
objectifs et de la description du projet;
* La partie 2  porte sur la description de I'historique du deroulement du
projet et du contexte socio-economique dans lequel il a et execute, en
mettant en relief les resultats obtenus dans le cadre du fonctionnement des
organes et de 1'execution des differentes composantes du projet.
* La partie 3 concerne le point de vue du Recipiendaire sur l'ex6cution du
projet, sur les objectifs et leur niveau de realisation, sur la performance du
Gouvernement, de la Banque Mondiale et des Attrilbiutaires.
* La partie 4 porte enfin sur les mesures et actions destinees a assurer la
sauvegarde des acquis du PROGECAP en attendant l'aboutissement des
negociations pour le financement d'un projet-relais ou d'une eventuelle
seconde phase du projet, entendu que les objectifs generaux restent valables
et que leur realisation notamment au plan social et &conomique doit etre
consid&ee comme un processus a long terme.
-25-



11. GENERALITES
1. Rappel des objectifs du projet
Les objectifs du projet definis a l'Annexe 2 de l'Accord de Don sont les
suivants:
1)  Fournir un appui au Recipiendaire dans son effort pour proteger ses
ecosystemes; entreprendre des activites de conservation et de
gestion de la biodiversite, et promouvoir des activites &omies
alternatives pour les populations locales entourant les zones
protegees.
2)  Doter le Congo d'un systeme coherent de gestion des r6serves par la
mise en place des elements suivants: a) un cadre institutionnel
approprie couvrant toutes les activites de conservation; b) des plans
d'amenagement efficaces dans toutes les reserves. Le paragraphe
4.02 du Livre Bleu decrit les modalites prevues pour la mise en
oeuvre de cette strategie.
3)  Renforcer l'engagement du Gouvemement Congolais a poursuivre
les actions de conservation et activites connexes au moven du
financement du Fonds Mondial pour l'Environnement (GEF), destine
uniquement aux zones dont la conservation est d'importance
planetaire mais qui ne b6n6ficient par ailleurs d'aucune assistance
ou d'une assistance insuffisante.
2. Rappel de la description du projet
Cette description figure a l'annexe 2 de l'Accord de Don dans les termes
suivants:
-26-



Partie A : Etablissenient et &guipement de la Cellule de Gestion du
Projet, du Comitk Technique de Pilotage et du Comite Scientifique
1)  Formulation d'un cadre juridique et reglementaire complet pour la
protection et la gestion des Aires Protegees sur le territoire du
Recipiendaire.
2)  Execution d'enquetes aupres des populations locales et r6alisation
d'etudes  pour  mieux  evaluer  Yampleur    de  la  pression
demographique sur les Aires Proteg&es, et concevoir des activites de
conservation appropriees.
3)  Realisation du suivi et l1`valuation des activites destin6es a 6tablir
les Aires Protegees sur tout le territoire du Reipiendaire.
4)  Formation des personnels et ex6cution de campagnes d'education sur
la protection rationnelle des ecosystemes.
5)  Realisation d'une etude pour etablir un Fonds Fiduciaire destine a
mobiliser des ressources supplementaires n6cessaires pour le soutien
financier de la preservation des 6cosyst6mes.
6)  Participation aux programmes sous-rfgionaux visant A encourager la
cooperation dans les domaines lies A la conservation des ecosystemes.
Partie B : Renforcement de l'Herbier National
7)  Am6lioration de la capacite des personnels techniques de l'herbier a
traiter et conserver les echantillons vegetaux, realiser des inventaires
et identifier les especes vegetales.
8)  Amelioration de la base de donnees botaniques nationale.
9)  Formulation et ex6cution d'arrangements de jumelage avec des
herbiers 6trangers interesses.
Partie C : Renforcement de la Base de Donnees Cartographiques et du
Systeme dlnformations Geographiques
10) Etablissement et developpement d'une base de donnees pour les
Aires Proteg6es; etablissement d'une unite pour l'interpretation des,
-27-



photographies aeriennes et de l'imagerie satellitaire; renforcement
des activites de cartographie, et formulation et mise en ceuvre
d'Arrdngenients de jumelhge avec des instituts 6trangers int&ress6s.
Partie D : Protection et Gestion des Aires officiellement Protg:ees
11) Inventaire des especes et de l'6cosy'steme.
12)  Mlise au point et execution de plans de gestion incluant la
delimitation des zones centrales et des zones tampons et la
definition d'activites appropri6es de conservation devant etre mises
en ceuvre dans ces zones.
13)  Formation et mise en  ceuvre de programmes de recherche
scientifique visant une meilleure gestion des Aires Protegees.
14)  Formation des personnels en matiere de gestion  des Aires
Protegees, en particulier des operations de lutte contre le
braconnage.
15)  Formulation et mise en  ceuvre, en etroite consultation   et
cooperation avec les populations locales, d'activites pilotes visa-nt a
reduire la pression d'exploitation sur la faune et la flore des Aires
Protegees.
Partie E : Appui aux Sites Prioritaires du Projet
16)   Appui au site de Nouabale-Ndoki par entre autres choses:
l'etablissement d'un systeme efficace de protection; l'amelioration
des infrastructures de base pour permettre l'tkablissement d'un
centre de recherches scientifiques; la formation des personnels et
l'ex6cution : (a) des etudes pour d6terminer les tendances et les
caracteristiques (i) le braconnage des mammiferes , et (ii) la
dynamique de la v6g6tation; (b) des inventaires et des activites de
suivi visant une flore et une faune determin6es; et (c) des etudes
pour identifier les besoins et les aspirations de la population locale
environnante; toutes ces activites en vue de concevoir des actions
appropriees de renforcement ou de compensation.
-28-



17)  Appui A la Reserve de Conkouati notamment Par: (a) la realisation
d'inventaires biologiques et d'etudes sur les caracteristiques
phvsiques de la Reserve avec un accent particulier sur sa partie
Nord; la delimitation des limites de la Reserve de maniere a inclure
des zones cotieres et marines; la definition des zones centrales et
tampons; (b) le renforcement de la capacit6 de la DFAP A effectuer
efficacement ses operations de surveillance et de protection autour
de la Reserve et l'appui a ses efforts de reintroduction de
chimpanzes saisis chez les braconniers; (c) la formulation et la mise
en ceuvre d'un plan detaille de gestion int6grant les besoins des
communautes locales et les neessites d'une gestion durable des
ressources naturelles; et (d) la realisation d'enquetes visant A (i)
determiner l' impact et la dynamique socio-eonomique des
populations entourant la Reserve et, en particulier, l'influence de la
ville de Pointe-Noire sur la Reserve; (ii) le developpement
d'activites economiques alternatives pour les populations locales;
et (iii) la r6alisation d'activites educatives et d'eveil aux bienfaits de
Ia gestion durable des ressources naturelles.
18)   Appui A la Reserve MAB de  Dimonika notamment par:  (a)
* 'etablissement d'un svWstme de protection de la Reserve; et (b)
l'incorporation des communautes pour la formulation d'une
nouvelle politique de gestion durable des ressources naturelles, y
compris la promotion d'activites 6conomiques alternatives pour les
communautes de la zone tampon.
19)  Appui A la RLserve de la Lkfini notamment par: (a) la formulation
et la mise en ceuvre d'un plan detaille de gestion de la Reserve; (b)
le renforcement des operations de protection de la Reserve; (c) le
soutien aux efforts actuels pour reintroduire dans la reserve des
gorilles saisis chez les braconniers; et (d) la formulation et la mise
en ceuvre d'un progamme de sensibilisation visant A accroitre la
conscience du public pour ce qui concerne les besoins et les bienfaits
qui peuvent etre attendus d'une approche visant A une gestion
durable des ressources naturelles.
20)  Appui au site du Lac Tele/Likouala-aux-Herbes notamment par:
(a) la collecte des donnees de base et des documents necessaires au
classement du site; (b) la formulation d'un plan preliminaire de
gestion pour le site; (c) le d6veloppement d'activit6s alternatives
-29-



pour les communautes avoisinantes; (d) Ia formulation et la mise en
ceuvre d'activites d'eveil et educatives centrees sur la gestion des
ressources naturelles; et (e) Ia mobilisation des financements n&essaires a
une protection prolongee du site.
21) La realisation d'etudes supplementaires et d'inventaires visant a
l'inclusion possible d'Aires Proteges futures.
Ill. CONTEXTE SOCIO-ECONOMIQUE DU DEROULEMENT DU PROJET
L'Accord de Don signe le 4 Mars 1993 prevoyait l'exAcution du projet en quatre
(4) ans au terme desquels, les objectifs sus indiqucs devraient etre realises.
Mais en raison d'une part, des troubles socio-politiques que le pavs n'a cess6s
de connaItre depuis 1993 avec pour consequences la degradation de
1'environnement socio-economique, la persistance de l'insecurite, la perte du
patrimoine A travers de multiples pillages et braquages et d'autre part, des
suspensions successives des fonds du Don consecutives au non-respect par le
Congo, des engagements pris dans le cadre dudit accord et aux insuffisances
enregistr6es aux plans technique, administratif, comptable et financier, le projet
n'a pu s'ex6cuter dans les delais pr&vus, necessitant ainsi des prolongations
aux effets devastateurs sur son fonctionnement.
Par ailleurs, les frequents changements intervenus au niveau des charges du
projet (quatre (4) Tasks Managers en moins de deux ans), les hesitations
constatees dans la mise en ceuvre des mesures drastiques mais salutaires pour
le projet, la bipolarisation entre les Attributaires et la CGP, la non-organisation
au demarrage du projet d'un seminaire devant preiser le r6le et les
attributions de divers intervenants du projet, l'absence de manuel de
procedures, la gestion scabreuse du compte special, ont largement contribue A
la non-r6alisation des objectifs fondamentaux et A l'interruption frequente des
divers programmes elabores dans le cadre de l'ex6cution du projet.
Du fait de l'instabilite du pays, l'accord de Don signe le 4 Mars 1993 n'est entre
en vigueur que sept mois apres soit le 13 Ociobre 1993. Ce retard enregistre
dans la mise en vigueur du Don a eu des repercussions sur les composantes du
projet dont l'installation et le fonctionnement operationnel ont ete serieusement
handicapes ou compromis. Tel est le cas du Comite Scientifique mis en place
tres tardivement, ou de la Caisse Fiduciaire dont l'installation a ete report&e
sine die en attendant l'amelioration de l'environnement socio-politique et
-30-



surtout de la capacit6 financiere du pays gravement compromise par des crises
repetitives.
Par ailleurs, I'Etat n'a pas su profiter de Id p6riode de grace de trois ans en vue
de constituer une tresorerie suffisante pour faire face aux contreparties locales
dont les montants n'ont cesse de croitre A partir de 1996. II en est resulte des
suspensions qui, A certains moments, ont constitue des handicaps serieux dans
la realisation des actions menees sur le terrain par les attributaires.
L'ensemble des blocages et facteurs endogenes et exogenes ainsi repertories
n'ont pas permis de respecter les delais convenus et d'ex&cuter
harmonieusement le programme tel que d6fini a l'annexe 3 de I'Accord de
Don.
Bien que certaines se soient revelees inopportunes A cause de leur frequence
(deux en nmovenne tous les six mois au cours des trois premieres annees
d'exeution), les missions de Supervision conduites par Monsieur le Charge du
projet ont contribue positivement A l'amelioration qualitative des interventions
sur le terrain, A la revision des programmes dont la realisation a permis
d'atteindre quelques objectifs significatifs.
En outre, ces missions de Supervision ont permis de stigmatiser les
insuffisances constatees aux plans administratif, technique, comptable et
financier. De maniere generale, les recommandations et mesures proposees par
les missions de Supervision ont favorise A chaque fois qu'elles ont et
appliqu6es sans atermoiements, la cohesion, le fonctionnement operationnel
des organes du projet, la systematisation des evaluations au sein de chaque
composante en mettant toutefois en exergue l'adequation entre les resultats
obtenus avec les moyens materiels, financiers et humains mis en oeuvre.
Toutefois, il convient de d6plorer la nature unilaterale de certaines mesures
proposees par les diff6rentes Supervisions qui, parfois, n'ont pas tenu compte
des desideratas et des difficultes du beneficiaire. Ce qui, a certains moments, a
jete le doute sur l'aboutissement du projet.
La procedure de non-objection edictee par les dispositions de l'Accord de Don
n'a pas, A l'instar des projets similaires de conservation (ECOFAC) par exemple
finance, par d'autres bailleurs de fonds, favorise l'emergence et la promotion
des cadres nationaux dans le domaine de la conservation de la biodiversite. En
effet, le recours systematique A des cadres expatries aux competences parfois
douteuses a constitue un facteur demobilisant.
-31-



A cause de la procedure de non-objection dont l'avis de l'Administrateur du
Don a ete preponderant, plus de la moitie du financement du Don a et affectLe
A I'Assistance Technique, et aux etudes.
Peu d'etudes r6alis6es ont ete confiees A des nationaux, qui ont du se contenter
des maigres indemnites, comparativement A leurs homologues expatries. Cette
situation, au demeurant discriniindtoire, a contribue d'une mani&re ou d'une
autre A la perennisation de la dependance scientifique et technologique.
Afin d'assainir l'environnement du projet et de disposer d'un large eventail
d'elements  dans  le  cadre  de  la  restructuration  recommandee  par
l'Administrateur du Don, le Gouvernement a realise l'evaluation du projet dont
les resultats ont d6bouch6 sur l'organisation d'un seminaire atelier sur la
relance du projet. La tenue de ce seminaire a permis d'une part, d'identifier les
blocages et de recommander l'application des mesures drastiques mais
salutaires et d'autre part, de degager les responsabilites de divers acteurs du
projet (Gouvernement, Banque Mondiale, Attributaires).
1.  Resultats techniques obtenus dans le cadre de la mise en place et du
fonctionnement des organes du projet
En depit du contexte de crise marque par l'eclatement des guerres civiles,
la perte du patrimoine et de la memoire du projet, le Gouvernement a pu
mettre en place les organes de gestion et de suivi du projet au sein
desquels les actions suivantes ont ete realisees.
a Cellule de Gestioni di, Projet
Coniue en tant qtu'organe charge de gerer et de coordonner les activites
du projet, la CeUule de Gestion du Projet composee au depart de dix
personnes a connu de serieuses difficultes liees aux relations conflictuelles
avec les Attributaires, empreintes de mefiance, aux  conflits de
competence, a l'absence de cohes ion, aux insuffisances tant techniques,
financieres que co;mptables.  La Societe TECSULT recrutee sur appel
d'offres international pour apporter son appui technique A la CGP n'a pas
e  A la hauteur des attentes du beneficiaire et de l'Administrateur du Don.
La resiliation du Contrat TECSULT decidee A la suite de la cinquieme
Supervision et l'application des recommandations de la mission
d'evaluation A mi-parcours ont permis de reduire considerablement les
effectifs de dix a cinq dont un Coordonnateur, un Comptable prive, deux
-32--



Secr6taires et un Planton et de recentrer les activit6s de la CGP. Un arrete
Ministeriel portant creation et attribution du Comite de Gestion du Projet
au sein duquel le role et les fonctions de la Coordination ont et renforces
a ete signe en Mars 1998.
Grace A la redefinition des missions du CGP, les activites de la
Coordination se sont qualitativement ameliorees. Cette redefinition a
permis le fonctionnement regulier des autres organes du projet A savoir le
Comite Technique de Pilotage (Cll), le Comite Interministeriel de Suivi
(CIS) et le Comite Scientifique (CS).
Depuis sa mise en place, le Comite de Gestion du Projet s'est reuni
r6guli&rement tous les mois et les comptes-rendus des reunions ont et
tTansmis chaque mois A l'Administrateur du Don.  En outre, les
documents relatifs aux sessions du Comite Technique de Pilotage ont et,
conformesment aux textes en vigueur, prepares dans les delais par la
Cellule de Coordination.
De meme, les reunions du Comite Interministeriel de Suivi ont ete
minutieusement preparees par la Coordination dont l'efficacite au cours
des deux annees a et hautement appr6ciee par la Banque Mondiale,
Administrateur du Don.
Au delA des resultats encourageants obtenus dans le cadre de la
Coordination et du suivi des activites du projet, le Gouvemement n'a pas
applique la mesure concernant la mise en place d'une structure perenne
de gestion efficace du r6seau des Aires Protegees prevue par l'Accord de
Don.   Les recommandations formulees A cet egard par la mission
d'evaluation a mi-parcours sur le mandat, le statut juridique, la structure et
le mode de fonctionnement sont demeurees sans suite.   n convient
d'envisager, comme prevu dans l'accord de Don et eventuellement dans
le cadre d'autres financements a negocier, l'erection progressive de la
Cellule de Gestion en une entite autonome de gestion des projets de
conservation.  La mobilisation aupres des bailleurs de fonds, des
ressources A des taux bonifies et la mise en place d'un Trmst Fund (Caisse
Fiduciaire) pouvant susciter l'adh6sion des ONGs internationales et
drainer des capitaux dependent etroitement de la nature de l'entite A creer
et donc de la problemaffque de financement des projets de conservation de
la biodiversite dans notre pays.
-33-



Dans son r6le de promotion de la prise de conscience de la Conservation
de la biodiversite, Ia Cellule, malgre les frais importants engages ddas le
cadre de Y'Assistance Technique TECSULT, n'a pas realise des progres
notables. Elle est restee etrangere aux actions qui ont concouru A faire
connaitre les efforts du Congo en matiere de conservation par
l'intermediaire des m6dias internationaux. Elle est rest6e a lYecart des
initiatives en matiere environnementale prises par le Gouvernement
Congolais.   Son  impact local est contestable, A l'exception  des
concertations regionale (Dolisie) et nationale (Brazzaville) qui ont et bien
couvertes par les medias nationaux. Une indication significative de
lY&hec de l'activite en relations publiques est le fait que les societes Man
Fai Taf et SAMAX intenenant sur les sites du projet A Conkouati et
Dimonika ont indique n'avoir pas ete informes du caractere de ces sites et
de leur appartenance au projet, ni du projet lui-meme. Le projet est donc
reste connu essentiellement d'un  cercle d'inities des spheres   de
l'administration, de certains bailleurs de fonds et de la recherche, sans
contribuer a l'information et A l'education du public national.
Au plan financier, les ressources prevues (3,5 millions $ US) sur les fonds
du Don pour le fonctionnement de la CGP et le contrat d'Assistance
Technique TECSULT (y compris le CERGEC) ont et consommes a
hauteur de 2,94 millions de $ US soit 84 %. Sur les 2,94 millions de $ US
consomm6s, environ 85 % ont ete affectes a la consultance internationale et
etudes r6alis6es par les experts etrangers. Ce qui contraste avec la qualite
des 6tudes realisees et de leur impact sur le terrain.
a Comit. Tecmntniae de Pilotgge
Consu comme une instance essentielle de 1'ex6cution du projet car
reunissant toutes  les  instances  nationales  de  l'Etat (Ministe'res,
Administrations, Recherches) et de la SociktL civile (ONGs nationales,
locales et internationales) ainsi que les responsables d'autres projets
concernant la conservation au Congo (ECOFAC), le Comite Technique de
Pilotage preside par le Ministre en charge des Aires Protegees s'est reuni
reguliNrement A echeances semestrielles en vue de definir les prioritss et
les orientations. Un arrete renforcant ses attributions et elargissant sa
composition a ete adopte. Le Comite Technique de Pilotage s'est reuni
sept (7) fois depuis le debut du projet. Des missions de supervision ont
pu assister A cinq de ces reunions en qualite d'observateurs.
-34-



Le role et la place du Comite Technique de Pilotage dans le dispositif mis
en place ont et definis dans Y'accord de Don et ont fait l'objet pendant
quelques ann6es de mduvaise interpretation.
En effet, bien qu'adopt6 par le Comite Technique de Filotage, l'execution
de certains programmes s'est, en raison de la procedure de non-objection,
heurtee au refus de l'Administrateur de Don qui s'est comporte en,
veritable agence d'ex6cutior. Certaines decisions prises par le Comite
Technique de Pilotage ont CMe contestees par l'Administrateur de Don.
II convient de tirer les lecons de cette experience contraignante de non-
objections et envisager l'application des schemas decisionnels plus souples
et compatibles avec les exigences de gestion transparente.
Tel est le cas par exemple du Comite Technique de suivi du projet
ECOFAC finance par l' Union Europeenne.
Ce comite jouit pleinement de ses pouvoirs dans la definition des priorites,
I'affectation des moyens et le controle A posteriori de la r6alisation des
programmes.
* Comint Intenninistiriel de Suivi
L'institutionnalisation de ce comite par arrte n°o 0039/MEF/CAB du 24
Mars 1998 a permis de combler le vide constate dans le fonctionnement
operationnel des organes du projet.
En effet, le fonctionnement de ce comite a contribu6 efficacement a
l'amelioration de la gestion du projet. GrAce aux rapports et propositions
constructives de ce comite, le Gouvernement a &6 regulierement informE
de l'tat d'avancement du PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO. Ce qui a perrnis de
prendre des mesures visant A corriger les insuffisances constatees.
L'experience de ce comite dans la perspective d'un nouveau projet merite
d'etre poursuivie puisqu'il associe tous les ministWres concernes (Plan,
Amenagement, Economie, Finances, Forkts, Environnement) ainsi que la
Presidence et qu'il constitue un trait d'union entre le projet et les Autorites
du pays.
-35-



* ConitO Sceiitifiqnue
Bien que tdrdivement mis en place, ce conlit6 compos6 de trois experts
internationaux; un Ecologiste, un Economiste et un Socio-
logue/Anthropologue a e constitue un an avant la fin du projet en depit
du fait que sa mise en place representait une des conditions d'entree en
vigueur du Don. Le retard accumule dans sa constitution est imputable
aux evenements socio-politiques que le pays a connus en 1993, 1994 et
1997.
Le fonctionnement operationnel de ce comite n'a et possible qu'en 1998.
La premiere reunion de ce comite qui a coincid6 avec la 7e session du
Comit6 Technique de Pilotage a eu lieu en Decembre 1998. Au terme de
cette r6union, un rapport hautement appreie6 par les membres du Comite
Technique de Pilotage a et   produit et a fait l'objet d'un examen
approfondi.
L'application des recommandations formulees par ce comite va permettre
dans une phase ulterieure d'ameliorer non seulement la qualite des
etudes mais d'assurer aussi le lien etroit entre la theorie et la pratique
notamment en ce qui concerne la promotion des actixit6s alternatives.
2.  Resultats techniques de 1'execution du projet par composante
Les resultats techniques obtenus sur le terrain se presentent par
composante de la maniere suivante:
* NowzbnaM-Ndoki
Entre 1989 et 1990, les expeditions organisees par NYZS, The Widlife
Conservation International (WCI) devenu aujourd'hui Wildlife
Conservation Society (WCS) en collaboration avec le Ministere des Eaux
et Forets (MEF) ont identifie la foret de Nouabal6 Ndoki comme aire
prioritaire pour la conservation des forets humides en Afrique.
Ainsi le 21/03/1991, un accord de cooperation en matiere de conservation
des ecosystemes naturels entre le Gouvernement de la Republique
Populaire du Congo et WCI fut signe, suivi le 21/10/1991 de la signature
du protocole d'accord entre le Gouvernement de la Republique du Congo
-36-



et WCI portant creation et mise en valeur de Ia reserve naturelle de
Nouabal-Ndoki
Enfin, en 1993 apres deux annees de procedure de classement, le decret
n° 93-27 du 31/12/1993 fut a.iopte et publie par le Gouvernement.
Le premier financement qui a permis le lancement du projet par la mise en
place de quelques infrastructures, les inventaires, la formation, les emplois
et autres a et assure par l'Agence Americaine pour le Developpement
International (USAID).
A partir de 1993, la GTZ a eu la mission d'identifier et de developper les
activit6s alternatives d'education pour l'environnement et le lancement du
SIG. Cette mission a pris non seulement du retard mais a et brutalement
stoppee par le pillage occasionne par la guerre civile de 1997. Ce retard a
W tres pr6judiciable dans la mise en place du plan zonal de Nouabale-
Ndoki.
La signature en 1993 de l'Accord de Don relatif au projet de Gestion et de
Conservation des Aires Protegees (PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO) a constitue
une veritable bouffee d'oxygene pour Nouabal&-Ndoki dans le cadre de sa
mise en valeur.
Resultats techniques obtenus
Les resultats ci-apres ont pu etre realises.
* Mise en place d'un systWme performant de protection de la reserve;
* Construction d'une infrastructure de base et d'une station de recherche
scientifique;
. Formation du personnel dans les activites d'amrnagement et de
recherche);
* Realisation des etudes scientifiques.
Au 30 Juin 1999, les decaissements effectues en faveur de Nouabal&Ndoki
se chiffrent globalement a 1.298.009.000 F CFA sur 1.369,86 millions
prevus. Ce qui represente 94,75% des financements globaux.
-37-



*   PARCS-CONGO
Suivant  l'accord  pass6  entre  le  PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO   et
WCS/PARCS-CONGO, le PROGECAP devait appuyer financierement
PARCS.CONGO pour un montant de 75.000 $ en ce qui concerne les
actions de formation suivantes:
1.  S6minaire sur la Gestion des Ressources Humaines et Financieres
dans les aires prot6gees;
2.  Atelier sur les lois et reglements en vigueur dans les aires protegees
du Congo;
3.  Atelier sur l'organisation et le suivi des patrouilles dans les aires
proteg&es;
4.  Stage et atelier sur la lutte antibraconnage;
5.  Atelier sur la conservation communautaire;
6.  Atelier sur la formation des cogardes et sur le SIG.
Toutes ces formations devraient se derouler au cours de l'annee 1995 ou
Lventuellement 1996. Mais les nombreuses suspensions des decaissements
des fonds du Don conseutifs aux contre-perfomances du Congo a
necessite des reports dans la realisation des activites. A cela s'ajoute la
succession des guerres civiles que le pays connait depuis ces dernieres
annees (1997,1998 et 1999).
Compte-tenu des circonstances evoquees ci-haut, PARCS n'a r6alise que
quelques actions suivantes:
1.  Seminaire sur la gestion des Ressources Hurnaines et Financieres
dans les aires protegees;
2.  Atelier sur les lois et reglements en vigueur dans les aires protegees
du Congo;
3. Atelier sur l'organisation et les patrouilles dans les aires protegees.
De meme, PARCS avait acquis en application de cet accord une
phocopieuse, une relieuse et un phone/fax. Tout ce materiel a &6 pill.
En depit des difficultes qui ont emaill la mise en oeuvre des activites du
projet (Blocage des decaissements, guerres civiles), les resultats suivants
ont et6 obtenus:
-38-



1. Formation a travers divers ateliers et stages, des agents evoluant dans
les aires prottegees;
2. Redaction et publication d'un guide pratique juridique specifiquement
destin6 aux gestionnaires des aires prot6gees. Ce guide servira de
manuel sur tout ce qui concerne les lois et les reglements en matitre de
faune dans les aires prot6gees. n1 servira aussi de manuel de base sur
les ateliers de formation dans le meme domaine.
3. Formation d'un responsable au sein du Ministere ayant acquis une
competence dans la planification et l'organisation de la formation.
Etat des decaissements
Sur les 75 mille Dollars US pr6vus pour la realisation du programme
PARCES - CONGO, 17.127.000 FCFA seulement ont ket decaisses soit
.41,52%. Ce faible niveau d'execution des d6penses s'explique par les
causes evoquees ci-haut (guerres civiles, blocage des decaissements,
procedure de non-objection).
Coikoiuati
Dans le cadre du Projet de Gestion et Conservation des Aires Protegees
(PROGECAP), le Congo a signe une Convention de Cooperation avec
l'Union mondiale pour la nature en vue d'executer le Projet Conkouati
ou Projet d'amenagement et de gestion de la reserve de faune Conkouati
de 1994 a juin 1999.
Le montant total du Don incluant les avenants et servant au financement
de ces activites s'eleve a 1380 657 000 F CFA.
Le total des decaissements effectues au 30 Juin 1999 se chiffre a
1 336 952 000 F CFA. Soit 98,79 % des montants conventionnels.
-39-



Principaux r6sultats techniques
Les principautx r6sultats techniques obtenus sollt les suivants:
1.   Construction d'une Base Vie compos&e de 3 Villas et d'un batiment
pour les bureaux;
2.  Construction d'un Poste de contr6le pour les patrouilles (3 chambres,
sejour et cuisine) et d'une case de passage (6 chambres, sejour et
cuisine) pour les chercheurs et les responsables a Ngongo avec tous
les equipements necessaires;
3.   Balisage et signalisation des limites Est de la R6serve et des
,tablissements humains situes dans la Reserve;
4.  Realisation de plus de  trente (30)   etudes et consultations
sanctionnees par des rapports;
5.   Construction d'une ecole primaire A Ntandou-Ngoma (3 salles de
classe et bureau);
6.  Refection toiture du dispensaire de Nzambi;
7.  Construction et achat de l'equipement d'une auberge A Ntie - tie;
8.  Financement des pharmacies villageoises de Nzambi et Ntie-tie;
9.   Mise en place d'un Centre d'Appui Technique (CAT  pour la
formation des paysans en agriculture et elevage.
10. Financement de la formation de 8 villageois en elevage des aulacodes
et des petits ruminants au Togo pendant un mois.
11. Mise en place d'un elevage des aulacodes au CAT tenu par les
villageois qui vont bient6t recevoir un credit en geniteurs et etre
instalks chez eux avec leur propre elevage;
12. Mise en place de deux Groupements agricoles de femmes A
Ntandou-Ngoma et Cotovindou;
-40-:



13. Mlise en place des parcelles agricoles de demonstration au Centre
d'Appui Technique (CAT) pour la formation des paysans;
14. Plusieurs interventions en milieu  pavsan des parcelles   de
demonstration en vue de modifier les techniques agricoles des
paysans;
15. Creation d'un Groupement d'eleveurs de petits ruminants uPeres et
Fils,, A Mpella;
16. Production d'un Plan d'amenagement et de gestion des ressources
naturelles de la Reserve de Conkouati. Ce plan n'a pas encore 4tb
adopte.
17. Mlise en place d'un Comite local de gestion des ressources naturelles
de Conkouati;
18. Mise en place d'une banque de donnees en observation et marquage
des tortues marines;
19. Formation du personnel du projet;
20. Recrutement et formation d'un corps d'ecogardes en cours de
formation;
21. Achat des materiels et equipements des ecogardes et du projet;
22. Enquetes sur le lamantin de Conkouati;
23. Tenue des activites des sensibilisation/animation sur l'education
relative A l'environnement;
24. Organisation des patrouilles de suiveillance de la Reserve;
25. Appui aux ONG locales;
26. Appui aux activites de relacher des chimpanzes de HELP au Triangle
de Nkoubou.
-41-



* HELP
Le 28 Aout 1991, I'Association HELP relAchait 18 b6bts chimpanz6s sur
une ile dans la lagune de Conkouati attribuee par le Gouvernement
Congolais.
De la prise en compte de HELP par le PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO
Le livre bleu a prevu une ligne budgetaire pour aider la Direction de la
Faune et de la Flore A reinserer les chimpanzes.
Suite A la quatrieme (4e) session du Comite Technique de Pilotage,
Mlonsieur le MIinistre des Eaux et Forets demandait a Monsieur le Charge
du Projet de prendre HELP en consideration, vu son implication dans la
reinsertion des chimpanzes.
A la suite des discussions, un budget intgre A celui de la Cellule de
Gestion a Wtb attribu6 a HELP en 1996 et 1997. Mais ne maitrisant pas les
procedures de decaissement de la Banque Mondiale, le deblocage des
fonds s'est fait timidement.
Apres les hostilites de Juin 1997, le Budget HELP est desormais rattache a
celui de Conkouati.
Depuis 1996, HELP a realise les actions suivantes financees directement
par le Don GEF.
11 s'agit de:
*   La construction et de Y'extension du Centre de Recherches;
*   La construction du logement des observateurs auxiliaires;
*   La realisation de trois (3) relachers dans le triangle de Nkoubou;
*   Suivi des chimpanzes relches par les veterinaires et auxiliaires;
*   Suivi sanitaire des chimpanzes du sanctuaire par des veterinaires.
Enfin, HELP a beneficie du GEF des d6caissements d'environ 50 millions F
CFA. Ce montant a servi A couvrir les frais inherents a la realisation des
operations de relacher des chimpanzes (paiement de missions de
veterinaires etc...).
-42-



*    DIMONIKA
L'Attributaire Mlicro Development Corp (MDC) n'a pas pu s'installer sur
le site, en raison du prealable de partage des installations que les
chercheurs du projet Mayombe refusaient de liberer et de l'octroi d'un
permis  de prospection miniOre a la Societe SAMAX-CONGO pour la
recherche de l'or.
La signature par les Autorites Congolaises du decret autorisant
Y'exploration mini&e dans la reserve, la perte de tous les materiels et
equipements acquis et enfin l'absence de garantie de securite dans une
region deja agit(e avant les hostilites ont contraint la Banque Nlondiale A
surseoir  a l'execution des activites sur ce site.   Le contrat avec
r'attributaire MDC a et rompu par force majeure et le reliquat de fonds a
et reverse au compte ' non- affecte > des fonds du Don.
Toutefois, l'Attributaire a pu beneficier sur la base du contrat initial des
ducaissements d'environ 182 millions de F CFA sur 316,8 millions prevus
au budget initial soit 57,59 %.
*   LEFINI
Bien que faisant partie integrante du PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO, le site de
la Lefini n'a demarre veritablement ses activites qu'en 1999. Le retard lie a
la non-signature de la convention avec l'Attributaire n'a pas permis de
r6aliser les objectifs fondamentaux de la reserve.  Toutefois, quelques
activites ci-apres ont pu etre r6alis6es:
*   Seminaire sur le theme q Rehabilitation de la Reserve de Faune de
la Lefini - tenu en Decembre 1996 a NGO;
*    reunion des Attributaires sur le site Lefini en vue de
l'stablissement d'un programme coherent de travail pour la
mise en ceuvre du projet en 1997;
Ces forums ont eu un impact non negligeable non seulement
aupres des Autorites Administratives, mais aussi aupres des
chefs de terre, des chefs de village et des populations elles-
memes.
-43-



*   La sensibiisation qui est une tAche ponctuelle a ete men6e
surtout dans la contree nord de la Reserve.
La protection
En raison du lancement tardif des activites du programme de la
Composante [efini (janvier 1999) et les contraintes de delais
irrevocables fixes d six mois par la Banque Mondiale pour la fin du
PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO, il a et retenu d'impliquer les Agents
des Eaux et Forets evoluant dans les postes de contr6le situes dans
les environs de la Reserve, pour des actions persuasives de
surveillance.
Toutefois, les actions ponctuelles de surveillance ont et menees par
les cadres du projet.
*   Etudes
Des etudes ci-apres ont CA6 menees:
- Les etudes socio-economiques amorcees en 1997, poursuivies en
1998 et 1999;
-   Les etudes sur la repartition des mammiferes dans la Reserve
effectu6es de Mai-Juin 1998 sur l'axe centrale de la Lkfini et ses
environs. Ces etudes se poursuivent dans les zones de la valle
de la Louna, la Loubilika et en Haute Nambouli;
*   Poursuite des investigations dans la zone d'Imboulou ou zone
Est de la Reserve;
* Realisation des etudes Botaniques en Haute Nambouli sur l'axe
centrale qui se trouve etre la vall6e de la riviere L[fini jusqu'aux
chutes de Nkouembali.
*   Constructions
4 RfMection des 2 gites de Mp6h et d'Ebou en Haute Nambouli.
-44-



*   Synergie entre Reserve de la Lefini et le PPG Sanctuaire de Usio-
louna
La necessite de cette synergie est indeniable, les discussions sur
rl'eaboration   d'un programme commun de travail visant la
prevenance des migrations des gorilles majeurs en projetant un
transfert dans la grande Reserve oui le potentiel en superficie et en
paturage est convenable, sont dejA entamees.
*   Plan d'amenagement
Un plan d'am6nagement et de gestion de cette Aire sera propose en
vue de perenniser la dynamique de ces ecosystemes et la promotion
future du tourisme A la fin du projet prevue pour le 30 Juin 1999.
En attendant la signature de la Convention de Cooperation entre WCS et
le Gouvernement du Congo, un montant de 27,7 millions de F CFA avait
Ct6 depense sous forme d'avance. Ce montant a permis d'assurer le
fonctionnement de la Coordination du projet et d'organiser des seminaires
et reunions de sensibilisation des autorites locales et des populations
vivant autour et A 1int6rieur de la reserve. Tenant compte des depenses
engagees dans le cadre de la convention, le montant cumule depense en
faveur de la Lefini et incluant les avances, s'etablit globalement A 85,3
millions F CFA.
Projet de protection des Gorilles
Le projet de protection des Gorilles a ete cree en 1987 avec sept objectifs
principaux qu'il suit scrupuleusement malgre la situation socio-
economique du pays. R&eise en partenariat entre le Gouvernement de la
Republique du Congo represente par le Minist6re en charge des Aires
Protegees et la Fondation Howletts et Port Lympne (FHPL), le projet a
pour but la protection et la reinsertion dans le milieu naturel des Gorilles
saisis aupres des braconniers et confisque:s par les services des Eaux et
Forets.
La realisation des objectifs du projet de protection des Gorilles contribue
tant soit peu A l'6panouissement de la region A travers l'amelioration des
indicateurs economiques tels que lIaugmentation du niveau de vie de la
-45-



population, la reduction du nombre de ch6meurs et la decroissance de
l'exode rural etc ...
Le projet a b6n6ficie de l'appui financier du GEF gra:e auquel des activit6s
de recherche, des emissions de sensibilisation tant au niveau national
qu'international ont pu etre r6alis(es.
Le projet souhaite poursuivre l'execution des actions dont la reussite
constitue un atout majeur pour le developpement de l1'cotourisme et le
rayonnement de l'image du pays qui est en train de realiser une premiere
en matiere de protection et de reinsertion des gorilles dans le milieu
naturel.
Sur l'apport global du GEF estirne a 248,175 millions de F CFA, le projet
Protection des Gorilles a pu mobiliser la somme de 236,775 millions de F
CFA soit 95,40 % des financements prevus.
Lazc TOlfMLikouala-aux-Herbes
Le projet Lac Te6l/Likouala-aux-Herbes a effectivement demarre en
Deembre 1994 avec le recrutement et l'arrivee a Brazzaaville du Conseiller
Technique Principal (CTP). Ce dernier en collaboration  avec la
Coordination regionale de l'UICN a procede au recrutement de cadres
nationaux appeles a executer le travail sur le terrain.
*  Du 30 Janvier au 6 Fevrier 1995, il a et realise une mission de prise de
contact par l'equipe du projet (CTP et cadres nationaux recrutes) a
Impfondo et a Epena. Au cours de cette mission, les objectifs du projet
furent sommairement presentes aux autorites politico-administratives
de la region de la Likouala et du district d'Epena, ainsi qu'aux
Notables.
*  Elaboration des documents du projet relatif au cadre logique
d'intervention et a la commande des equipements.
*  Juillet 1995, il a ete mis en place l'equipe d'encadement a Ep6na et
procede au demarrage du travail de terrain apres le recrutement du
personnel d'appui compose d'un pinassier, d'utne Secretaire et de deux
gardiens.
-46-



*   La premiere tournee a et consacree a la presentation de I'Equipe
technique aux populations et'A l'explication des obiectifs du projet;
*   La seconde a et celle des enquntes socio-economiques . Puis, ont
suivi d'autres missions d'etudes qui ont permis de rassembler les
donnees de base.
Aes resurtas tecfiniques suioanfs ont pu &tre refeves:
1. Grace aux enquetes socio-economiques, le cadre local a pu etre cerne,
les villages riverains, les activites des villageois, la population et les
methodes traditionnelles de gestion des ressources naturelles.
2.  Les grands mammiferes du site ont et inventories avec leur zone de
repartition; de meme que les oiseaux d'eau.
3. Les grandes formations vegetables du site ont ete maitrisees.
4.  Les etudes ichtyologiques et hvdrologiques n'ont conmnence que tres
tard en Aouit 1998.  Leurs resultats attendus serviront dans la
deuxieme phase, c'est-a-dire au moment de la mise en ceuvre du plan
de gestion du site.
Les donnees rassemblees ont permis entre autres:
*   d'elaborer le dossier de classement de la reserve;
*   d'e1aborer le plan d'amrnagement et de gestion de la reserve;
*   d'identifier et appuyer quelques activites altematives. De meme,
des actions a caractere socio-educatif ont std realisees.
Classement du site
Au terme de la premiere collecte des donnees de base et de la redaction
des rapports d'etudes, des reunions avec les autorites locales et de la
reunion de la Commission de classement, le Gouvernement a adopte le
-47-



deret portant creation de la Reserve Communautaire du Lac
Te/Likouala-aux-Herbes depuis le 17 Fevrier 1999.
Plan d'Am&nagement
La 3e version produite a et.5 adoptee au niveau regional depuis Mai 1998.
Amend6e, elle va etre soumise au Departement des Eaux et Forets pour
adoption.
Adhesion du Congo A la Convention de Ramsar
La R6serve Communautaire du Lac Tele/Likouala-aux-Herbes a e
admise comme Zone humide d'importance internationale et inscrite sur la
liste Ramsar le 18 Octobre 1998.
Activites alternatives
Le projet avait la mission d'identifier ces activites. Toutefois, le projet a
non seulement identifie les activites alternatives mais a apporte aussi un
appui pr6cieux A certains groupements de la zone, A travers les actions
suivantes:
*   Appui technique et materiel au groupement des jeunes maraichers
d'Epena;
*   Appui materiel au groupement <<Tozonga-Mboka>> de Matoko;
* Forrnation des trois paysans en aulacodiculture A Kpalimen au Togo.
Activites compensatrices
Les quelques actions menees dans le cadre de ce volet ont et plus
orientees vers les domaines de l'Education et de la Sante. Quelques
etablissements scolaires ont ete refectionnes (Bouenela, Boha, Dzeke), un
don en table-bancs (30) au CEG d'Epena, une tronconneuse pour le
desengorgement de la riviere des Kaboungas et une pharmacie villageoise
implantee A Moungouma approvisionnant entre autres, les villages
Kinami, Edzama, Botongo et Bondoki.
Sur un budget  total de 342,42 millions de F CFA,  la reserve
Communautaire du Lac-Tele a b6neficie de 332,634 millions de F CFA soit
97,14 %.
-48-



CERGEC
Avant perdu tous ses materiels et &quipements pendant les hostilites de
Juin 1997, le CERGEC n'a pu ni poursuivre les actions engagees dans le
cadre des diff.rents plans d'action; ni developper de nouvelles activites
telles que prevues dans le livre bleu. La relance effective des activites n'a
pu etre amorcee au cours de l'annee 1998 en raison des prealables poses
par l'Administrateur du Don.
L'eclatement des evenements de Decembre 1998 et Janvier 1999 a
Brazzaville et les consequences qui en ont resulte (eparpillement des
cadres du CERGEC, pillage de certains documents) ont porte un coup de
grace au CERGEC dont la relance des activit6s se trouve etre compromise
vu la proximite de la date de cl6ture du projet.
Toutefois, le CERGEC a realise quelques cartes au 1/200.000.
L'am6lioration de ces cartes n'a pu se faire a cause de la guerre.
Par ailleurs, le CERGEC a beneficie au demarrage de ses activites d'une
Assistance technique TECSULT dont le contrat a ete resilie par les
Autorit6s Congolaises.
Ce contrat d'un montant de 783,635 millions F CFA a ete execute a hauteur
de 736,6 millions F CFA. Ce qui represente pres de 94 % du montant
contractuel.
CERVE
Les activites au niveau du CERVE se sont realisees suivant un cadre
juridique caracterise par la signature de:
*   L'Accord de cooperation entre Missouri Botanical Garden (MBG) et
le CERVE;
*   La Convention de Cooperation entre le Gouvernement du Congo et
le MBG;
*   Le protocole de collaboration entre le CERVE et le CERGEC;
*   Le reglement interieur de ' herbarium.
-49-






En depit des troubles socio-politiques qui ont perturbe le pays, le CERVE, A
l'instar des autres composantes du PROGECAP/GEF-CONGO, a realise
queliques eludes doint les r6sultats ont peri-iis d ',imliorer les connaissances sur
les espees vegetales.
Il s'agit de:
.   L'etude sur la dynamique forestibre;
*   L'6tude de la vegetation;
*   L'etude floristique;
*   L'etude des plantes medicinales
*   L'etude sur la mise en place des cles de determination des especes.
Sur le montant de 178,7 millions F CFA relatif A la Convention, 111,5 millions
ont ete dblzoqu6s; ce qui presente 62,4 % du montant conventionnel.
IV. POINT DE VUE DU RECIPIENDAIRE SUR L'EXECUTION DU PROJET,
SUR SES OBJECTIFS ET LEUR NIVEAU DE REALISATION. SUR LA
PERFORMANCE DU GOUVERNEMENT. DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ET
OES ATTRIBUTAIRES.
Les resultats mitiges obtenus dans le cadre de la realisation des objectifs
fondamentaux du projet, A savoir l'identification et le developpement des
activites alternatives, la mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel appropri6
couvrant toutes les activites de conservation, lr6laboration des plans
d'amenagement efficaces dans toutes les reserves ou ils font defaut ou sont
inad6quats temoignent du faible niveau d'execution atteint et dont les causes
principales sont imputables d'une part au contexte socio-&onomique
totalement deprime dans lequel le projet s'est execute et d'autre part a la
mauvaise definition des objectifs et aux comportements de plusieurs acteurs
dans la Gestion du projet.
Le seminaire organise en Fevrier 1996, a, apres avoir circonscrit les problemes
lies aux contre-performances, degage les responsabilits au niveau du
recipiendaire, de l'Administrateur du Don et des Attributaires.
-50-



1) Concernant le Gouvernement do la Republique
Les erreurs commises lors de la finalisation des ntgociations avec la
Banque Mondiale sur certains aspects de l'accord de Don notamment
les procedures de non-objection, le placement du projet de Gestion et de
Conservation des Aires Protegg&s sous la tutelle des trois Ministeres au
lieu d'un seul en l'occurrence celui en charge des Aires Proteg&es,
Y'affectation au detriment des volets essentiels du projet de plus de la
moitie du financement du Don aux Consultants (Assistance technique) et
Etudes n'ayant parfois aucune incidence ou application sur le terrain
(promotion des activit6s alternatives) ont serieusement compromis ou
retarde la realisation des objectifs tels que definis A l'annexe 2 de Y'Accord
de Don.
En effet, la mise en place de la procedure de non-objection a et pendant
deux ans la source de conflits de competence et d'imbroglio entre la
CelUule de Coordination et les Attributaires qui n'ont pas appreie les
recours systematiques A cette procedure pour tout achat de biens et
6quipements pr6vus dans les conventions de coop6ration sign6es avec le
Gouvernement Congolais. Le non-respect de cette procedure de non-
objection a genere des depenses ineligibles dont les accumulations des
arri6r6s a provoque des suspensions r6guli6res des fonds du Don.
La multiplicite de centres de d6cisions a eu des repercutions negatives sur
la gestion du projet. Ainsi, les aspects techniques ont-ils e confies au
Ministere des Eaux et Forets tandis que ceux relatifs aux finances ont e
attribues au Ministere de l'Economie et du Plan. Cette dualite des r61es et
attributions n'a pas permis d'avoir la maitrise du controle et de la gestion
du projet sur toutes ses composantes administrative, technique et
financiere. Le manque de motivations et le faible niveau de concertation
entre les d6partements concernes dans la prise des d6cisions importantes
pour le projet ont contribu6 negativement A la realisation des objectifs du
projet.
En outre, ce manque de concertation a favorise la signature  avec les
attributaires des Conventions et accords financiers n'ayant pas pris
suffisamment en compte les aspects techniques. De meme, les hesitations
-51-



et les retards a emettre des avis sur les propositions ermanant de la Banque
Mondiale ont jete le doute sur les capacites techniques des cadres
coiigolais av dnt evolue au sein du projet.
Le non-respect scrupuleux par le Gouvernement Congolais des
engagements pris dans le cadre de l'accord de Don notamment en ce qui
concerne le renouvellement ou l'octroi des nouveaux permis
d'exploitation   dans les sites retenus  et le deblocage A echeance
trimestrielle des contreparties locales, ont sensiblement eorne la
credibilite et l'rimage du pays et compromis les possibilites de mobilisation
aupres des bailleurs de fonds des ressources additionnelles pour le
financement des projets de conservation.
2) Concernant la Banque Mondiale
L'immixtion de l'Administrateur du Don dans la gestion quotidienne dont
la responsabilite incombait au b6neficiaire, le choix des consultants et
lYobligation faite au beneficiaire de recruter certains experts aux
competences douteuses, au detriment des cadres nationaux, I'application
unilaterale de certaines decisions n'ayant pas requis l'accord prealable du
b6n6ficiaire, l'affectation de plus de la moitie du finan-cement aux
consultants, aux etudes et la remise en cause des decisions du Comite
Technique de Pilotage, les changements frequents de Task Manager sans
l'accord prealable du beneficiaire ont confere A la Banque Mondiale le rle
A la fois d'Agence d'execution et de bailleurs de fonds. Ce double role
s'est a diverses occasions manifeste A travers les achats de materiels et
equipements effectues directement par le Charge du projet lui-meme.
Ces doubles fonctions de l'Administrateur du Don ont dans une certaine
mesure cree des malentendus, des quiproquo aux consequences
incalculables sur le d6roulement et la realisation des objectifs du projet.
Les hesitations du beneficiaire dans Ia prise des decisions importantes du
projet amplifiees par les menaces frequentes de suspension des finances
du projet exerc6es par la Banque Mondiale ont e  a l'origine des retards
constates dans la mise en couvre de certaines mesures. Le Gouvernement
s'etant r6sign0 A tout accepter de peur de perdre le financement acquis A
des conditions extremement concessionnelles. Le droit de veto du
financier (bailleur de fonds) dans la prise des decisions concernant le
projet a CMe souvent utilise. Ce qui n'a pas permis au beneficiaire de
-52-



recentrer le projet et d'adapter les objectifs du projet en tenant compte de
l'evolution et des ralites sur le terrain.
L'execution tardive de certaines composantes (Lefini par exemple)
pourtant retenues dans l'accord de Don et l'affectation des montants y
afferents aux etudes et A d'autres composantes du projet est la preuve
tangible des gesticulations de l'Administrateur du Don qui a privilegie les
ONGs internationales au detriment des structures locales. La Direction de
la Faune et des Aires ProtWgkes par exemple n'a pas benefici6 dans le
cadre du projet d'un soutien logistique donnant ainsi l'impression d'un
projet insuffisamment integre dans les structures relevant du Ministere
technique. L'absence du volet relatif au soutien institutionnel A l'instar
des autres projets n'a pas facilit la cooperation entre le projet (la
Coordination Nationale) et les Directions techniques du Ministere en
charge des Aires Prot6g6es. La persistance de cette situation a developpe
vis-A-vis du projet la mefiance et la frustration des cadres du Ministere de
l'Economie Forestiere: la perennite du projet a ete ainsi compromise.
Par ailleurs, la Banque n'a pas apporte son appui neessaire A I'elaboration
du manuel de procedures. De meme, sa rigidite dans l'application des
dispositions de I'Accord de Don et le manque de souplesse dans le
management du projet ont eu des effets negatifs sur l'execution du projet.
La rigueur et l'efficacite qui font de la Banque Mondiale une Institution
credible de financement du Developpement ont 6t6 mises en mal par les
erreurs de gestion dont la persistance a contribue A 1'epuisement rapide
des finances et A I'ajustement quasi-permanent des programmes et
budgets du projet.
Ces erreurs de gestion se sont manifestees a travers des choix et decisions
irrationnels suivants:
*   La location des v6hicules en faveur diu projet. L'incidence financiere
de ces choix oneireux, s'est traduite sur la tresorerie du projet, par
des ponctions enormes se chiffrant A des dizaines de millions de
F CFA alors qu'on aurait pu economiser en achetant a moindres frais
un ou deux vehicules propres au projet;
*   L'achat  des  materiels  et  equipements  (Ordinateurs  avec
imprimantes, photocopieur, appareils t6lephoniques) inadapt6s aux
-53-



besoins reels du projet et l'obligation faite aux responsables du projet
d'acheter ces 6quipements dbpassss, ont favorise Yaugmentation
exponentielle des charges r&urrentes (acha t des consommdbles
encre, cartouches) alors qu'on aurait pu economiser si, ces matxriels
et equipements 6taient performants;
*   L'Attribution d'un cadre indecent de travail exposant ainsi les
responsables du projet a travailler dans une promiscuite
incompatible avec le rendement et lYefficacitM exiges par
I'Administrateur du Don;
*   Le refus d'acheter les armoires pour l'archivage des documents du
projet;
•   La mefiance de l'Administrateur du Don vis-d-vis des cadres
congolais.
Cette mefiance a eu pour consequence le retard dans la mise en
ceuvre de certaines composantes (Lefini, Dimonika) dont la maitrise
d'ceuvre a ete initialement reservee a la Direction de la Faune et des
Aires Protegees et l'attribution de celles-ci a des ONGs
intemationales aux comp6tences douteuses.
•   L'opacite dans la gestion du contrat Micro-Development Corp dont
le remboursement de l'avance de demarrage autorisee par
l'Administrateur du Don n'a jamais convaincu le R&ipiendaire tant
elle demeure floue et injustifiee.
*   L'acquisition et la livraison du materiel de phonie a la fin du projet.
A cause de I'ambivalence des decisions de l'Administrateur du Don
sur ce dossier, les phonies achetees ne sont pas encore installees. De
meme,   YONG   Attributaire   choisi  unilat6ralement   par
l'Administrateur du Don pour assurer le r6le de maitre d'ouvrage
dans l'achat de ces materiels(radio et GPS) n'a pas livre les
equipements GPS.
La non-prise en compte suffisante des conclusions des sessions du
Comite Technique de Pilotage, la marginalisation des cadres congolais
dans la realisation de certaines etudes ont 6te les traits caracteristiques de
-54-



'j
l'Administrateur, durant la periode d'execution du projet et dont tes
resultats contrastent avec l'importance des movens mis en ceuvre.
3)  Concernant les Attributaires
La non-observation des regles et principes de concurrence dans le choix
des attributaires et I'attribution de facto de certaines composantes A des
ONGs internationales et l'attitude incomprehensible de l'Administrateur
du Don (Absence de garantie bancaire) ont constitue des vrais faux pas
dans le demarrage du projet.  II en est resulte des depassements
importants par rapport aux previsions retenues dans le livre bleu. Des
ajustements douloureux ont pu etre effectu6s au detriment par exemple
des activites alternatives.
L'incapacite des attributaires   a finaliser dams les delais les plans
d'amenagement associe6e aux pesanteurs administratives n'a pas permis
d'atteindre un des objectifs majeurs du projet.
En effet, malgre la consommation de tous les credits prevus dans les
accords de coop6ration pour atteindre cet objectif ainsi que les enveloppes
supplementaires octroy6es dans le cadre des avenants signes, aucun
attributaire n'a pu presenter ou finaliser un plan d'am6nagement credible.
De meme, les sommes importantes englouties dans les etudes et le
developpement des activites alternatives n'ont pas, A des degres divers,
donn6 des resultats probants. Les actions de sensibilisation qui ont pu
generer des fruits dans certaines reserves, ont et, au regard de
l'enracinement de la culture de pillage dans notre pays, mises A mal.
Les vell6ites d'autonomie qui semblaient se desvelopper chez certains
att-ributaires au demarrage du projet ont envenimes les rapports avec
l'Administration de l'Etat qui n'a pas appreie l'exclusion A tort ou A
raison du schema de conservation de la biodiversite. Quels que soient le
degre d'autonomie et le statut a conferer a ces Aires, les ONGs
internationales ne pourront guere transformer ces sites en chasses gardees
(bantoustans). La collaboration avec l'Etat dans un cadre plus attractif
reste a preciser.
Durant toute la periode d'execution du projet, les attributaires ont souffert
d'un manque d'encadrement en matiere de suivi comptable et financier.
L'existence de plusieurs centres de decisions dans la gestion des comptes
-55-



du projet et la tenue sans coh6rences desdits comptes n'ont pas facilite
l'audit des comptes de l'ensemble du projet donnant ainsi l'impression
d'une gestion scabreuse et non-orthodoxe des finainces du projet.
En outre, la meconnaissance de regles et procedures de la Banque n'a pas
diligentes le traitement des dossiers comptables et l'ktetblissement des
Demandes de retrait de fonds (DRF's). Le retard accumule dans le
paiement des DRF's aggrave par la deliquescence du systeme bancaire a
cre des problemes de tresorerie qui ont contraint la plupart des
Attriblutaires a recourir syst6matiquement aux avances de leur siege. Ce
qui a contribue au ralentissement du rvthme d'execution des programmes
d'activit6s et par voie de consequence a la non-r6alisation des objectifs
fondamentaux du projet.
Les rapports teintes de mefiance et de suspicions entre nationaux et
personnels expatries avant evolue dans certaines reserves ont gravement
compromis la reussite du projet. Les causes essentielles de ces tensions
resident dans Y'application slective des criteres de stimulation et de
remuneration (non-respect par les Attributaires des dispositions du decret
concernant I'attribution des indemnites de deplacement) et la
marginalisation des nationaux dans la prise des decisions importantes
pour le projet. Le Comite Interministeriel de Suivi a e maintes fois
sollicite pour jouer le r6le de sapeurs pompiers et permettre le reglement a
l'amiable de certains conflits.   Par ailleurs, l'attitude sectaire de
l'Administrateur du Don vis-a-vis des nationaux et personnels expatries
sur certaines insuffisances constatees dans la gestion des finances du
projet n'a pas contribue a l'assainissement du climat.
Enfin, les attributaires n'ont pas suffisamrnent d6veloppe, a travers le
volet sensibilisation, la culture de conservation de la biodiversite de sorte
que les populations concemres se sont senties exclues de la dynamique.
Ces exigences de la population de voir leurs problemes etre regles par le
projet et l'incapacite du projet a prendre en compte les besoins de ces
memes populations,  le  choix  sur  des  bases  subjectives des
animateurs    de certaines reserves peuvent expliquer en partie les
difficultes rencontrees et les r6sultats mitiges obtenus dans le cadre de
1'ex6cution de ce projet.
-56-



V.  DESCRIPTION   DES  MESURES  PREVUES  POUR  ASSURER   LA
POURSUITE DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET APRES L'ARRET DES
FINANCEMENTS DU GEF
Le contexte socio-politique trouble dans lequel le projet a ete execute, le non-
respect de certaines dispositions prevues dans l'accord de Don (Deblocage A
echeances trimnestrielles des fonds de contreparties, mise en  place d'une
structure perenne de gestion efficace du reseau des Aires Proteg&es, non-
renouvellernent et non-octroi des permis d'exploitation dans les sites retenus
etc...), l'incapacite des attributaires a honorer leurs engagements notamment en
ce qui concerne l'elaboration des plans d'Amenagement et le developpement
des activites alternatives n'ont pas permis de realiser qu'a 40 % environ les
objectifs du projet. I'essentiel des fonds destines A jeter veritablement les bases
pour la gestion efficace et perenne des projets de conservation de la biodiversite
a 6te utilis6 pour le fonctionnement courant des organes et des attributaires
sans impact reel sur la gestion de la biodiversite. Les services techniques du
Ministere de I'Economie Forestiere, charges de p6renniser les acquis du projet
n'ont pas et suffisamment integres dans ce projet.
Tenant compte des aleas conjoncturels et de son experience capitalis6e dans le
cadre de la realisation des projets dans les pays en voie de d6veloppement, la
Banque Mondiale aurait dd prevoir au terme de l'execution de ce projet deux
ou trois schemas de d6veloppement ou de poursuite des projets de
conservation.
Les pesanteurs structurelles et les difficult6s financieres auxquelles le Congo est
confronte ne permettent pas d'envisager avec optimisme la poursuite de
1'ex6cution des projets de conservation sans apports exterieurs. La priorite
etant accordee au quotidien, et aux projets dont l'impact est immediat, il sera
difficile A court terme d'assurer l'allocation des ressources suffisantes aux
projets de conservation de la biodiversite. Le Congo est meurtri par les guerres
civiles repetitives qui ont detruit les infrastructures de base.
Ainsi, la poursuite des objectifs du projet apres 1',puisement des financements
GEF ne peut etre assuree que grAce au developpement d'un partenariat avec les
ONGs soutenues par les baileurs de fonds internationaux.
En depit des difficultes qui minent le fonctionnement de l'Etat, le
Gouvernement pourrait, en attendant l'aboutissement des negociations avec les
bailleurs de fonds sur la poursuite du projet de Gestion et de Conservation des
-57-



Aires Protegees, prendre A la fois des mesures generales et specifiques
suiv'antes destin&es a sauvegarder les icquis.
Ces mnesures dont la liste n'est pas exhaustive concernent:
A) Mesures genfrales
1.  Poursuite du projet dans le cadre d'une deuxieme phase. Cette
mesure s'appuie sur la ferme conviction qu'il est a tout point de vue
trop t6t pour juger le potentiel du projet en ce qui concerne la
viabilisation &-onomique et institutionnelle des Aires Protegees et
que le Gouvemement Congolais, pour lavoir elabore et mis en
chantier dans le cadre d'une experience pilote, entend se doter a
travers ce projet d'un systeme coherent de gestion des Aires
Protegees.
2.  Maintien de la Coordination Nationale dans une version tres l1gere
(un Coordonnateur National, un Administrateur-Comptable, une
Secr6taire et un Planton), du Comite Interministeriel de Suivi et du
Comit6 d e Gestion du Projet. Ces organes a maintenir apres la
date de cloture du projet, seront charges de coordonner et de suivre
toutes les operations et activitbs apres l'epuisement du financement
GEF et preparer avec assurance les elements necessaires a la mise en
place d'un cadre institutionnel approprie charge de g6rer avec
efficacite le reseau national de Gestion des Aires Protegees.
B) Mesures sv&ifigues
1.  Le maintien des equipes restreintes de gardiennage dans les Aires
Protegees oft les activit6s de conservation ont atteint un niveau
irreversible: Conkouati, Nouabale-Ndoki, Sanctuaire Lksio-Louna,
Lac Tele;
2.  La mise a la disposition de ces Aires ProtLgees, des reliquats de
financement GEF. Les montants de ce reliquat pourront etre estim6s
par la CGP apres la date de cl6ture du projet fixe au 30 Juin 1999;
3. L'affectation d'une partie des Budgets sur les fonds existants (Fonds
Forestier, Fonds d'amenagement halieutique, Fonds touristique,
Fonds pour la protection de 1'environnement, PL-480, Fonds
-58-



d'amenagement des ressources naturelles) A la poursuite des objectifs du
projet;
U'allocation de cette enveloppe obeiralt A la strategie adoptee par le
Ministere de Y'Economie Forestiere et concernant la r6servation de 10 %
de la Superficie du 1erritoire National A Id Conservation de la biodiversite
(Aires Proteigees). La repartition de celle-ci a differentes composantes du
projet s'effect-uera en fonction des criteres de performance qui seront
arretes ulterieurement;
4.   Le transfert progressif des actifs du projet GEF a la DFAP, structure
chargee d'assurer au plan institutionnel la perennite du projet; la DFAP
assurera par ailleurs la Coordination et le suivi des activites de certaines
aires qui pourront poursuivre leurs activites avec les financements autres
que le GEF (exemple P3N);
5.  La finalisation. des negociations avec les Pavs-Bas et les autres bailleurs de
fonds potentiels sur la mobilisation des ressources destinees A suppl&er le
Don GEF en voie d'epuisement;
6.  La finalisation. des plans d'Amenagement des sites prioritaires retenus et
l'adoption des textes y relatifs;
7.  L'amelioration du cadre institutionnel, legal et reglementaire a travers la
restructuration et le renforcement des capacites de la DFAP qui pourrait
etre erigee en Direction Generale, la promulgation de la nouvelle
legislation regissant les aires protegees, I'attribution aux sites prioritaires
d'un statut juridique accordant entre autres l'autonomie administrative et
financiere, aux structures locales chargees de ces sites et comprenant des
clauses appropriees interdisant toute activite economique dans les zones
centrales, le deploiement des fonctionnaires requis dans les sites;
8.  L'application des dispositions du decret relatif A la constitution d'un fonds
pour l'Environnement alimente en grande partie par les taxes payees par
les societes  petrolieres et forestieres.  Les ressources de ces fonds
pourraient constituer l'une des sources du Trust Fund a creer
ulterieurement lorsque les conditions de stabilite seront reunies ou jugees
acceptables par les bailleurs de fonds;
9.  La concentration des efforts materiels, financiers et humains sur les Aires
Protegees existantes. La creation de nouvelles aires et la mise en ceuvre
-59-



des a,, tions de protection devront  tenir  compte  de la capacit6
financii-re du pays car l'efficacitM de la strategie en matiere de
conservation de la biodiversilts en depend.
Annexebs A et B relatives A l'etat d'execution des contrats au 30 Juin 1999
en dollars US et en millions de F CFA.
-60-



Tableau A
ETAT CUMULE RELATIF A L'EXECUTION DES CONTRATS
AU 30 JUIN 1999 EN DOLLARS US
ATTRIBUTAJItES                       BUDGET                    DEPENSES CUMULEES AU                   SOLDE DISPONIBLE
1_______________            REVISE                            30 JUIN 1999                          4=(2-3)
1                               2                                   3                               4= (2-3)
(.(;1'            2                        1.6()0.954                          1.521.338  o                         79.616
l l ,( SUL  -(;l .(Ci.(: V                1.424.791                            1.338.427 4' 4                       86.364
U ICN -Conkouati 2                         2.510.286                           2.479.913                            30.373
U i(N-Lac-Tl1c                              622.587                            -604.789                             17.798
WX(CS-Nouabal6-Ndoki V                     2.490.655                           2.360.017                           130.638
Parcs-congo V                                                                    31.140                             14.773
1 lPl,l/Uifii Sud(PP 'G3 j)                 451.228                             430.501l                            20.727
D)imonika   <                               330.977                             330.977                                  0
.M113;,/cERVK l.  -                         324.995                           -2(2.843                             122.152
WCS-l,6fimi Nord v                           183.951                             115.111                            28.840
Comit6 Scictitifique                         38. 21(                             38.216                                  0
Autres Aires I/                                1.360                            - 1.360                                  0
l:onds Fiduciairc V                          20.0(0(0                            20.00()                                 0
No i-affect6                                     (1                                   0                                  0
TOTAL GENERAL                     10.000.000                           9.514.632                   485.368 (531.281)
N.B.
.a diffJrence entre (,e montant total du bud£et revisL (to.ooo.ooo s '1IS) et ce(ui des deyenscs cumul&es au 30 Juin 1999 (9514.632 s 1US)
s'e~f~t ;<' i ONc.i68 s lUs. Si on ajoute 1 ce niontat7t t'enveioyye at toeee d ?.A'S-Congo soit 45.913 s US, on obtient 531.281 s VIS(sof(fe
disyon ib6l).



Tableau B
Etat cumule relatif A 1'execution des contrats
au 30.06.1999 en millions de F CFA
.....    .    ..............   ........ ~ ~~~.. .......... ..... .. .. . ..... . . ..... 
DEPENSES CUMULEES
ATTRI13UTAIRES                      BUDGET REVISE                     AU 30.06.1999            SOLDE DISPONIBLE
1                                   2                              3                          4=(2-3)
CGP                                                      880,525                     836,736                        43,789
~I (:SU' , -(.I.RG[.                                     783,635                    736,135                         47,501)
L ICN-Coiikouati                                        1.380,657                  1.363,952                        16,7(05
L I(N-Lac-Tl 6                                           342,423                     332,634                         9,789
\WCS-Nouabal&-Ndoki                                     1.369,860                   1.298,009                       71,851            1
PKARCS-Congo                                              25,252                      17,127                         8,125
HI-LIP - Lcfftii Sud(IP'PG)                              248,175                     236,775                        11,400
Dimonoka                                                 182,037                     182,037                             0
.\MIBG/CE.RV .                                           178,747                     111,564                        67,183
\S (S- Lefii Nord                                        101,173                      85,311                         15,862
CoIitc Scicntifique                                       21,019                      21,019                             0
Autres Aires                                               0,748                       0,74 08
F-onds Fiduciaire                                         11,000                      1 1,(X00                           0
Non-Affecte                            _          __ 
TOTAL GENERAL                       5.500,0                   5.233,047                266,953(292,204)
N.B.
La ditference entire le montant total'du budget revise (5.500 milltois F Cy.A) et celi refatif aux dipenses cumufies au 30 Juin. 19)
(53233,o47mi(fions de f CT-A) s'e.tab6it a 2(i66,53 millions de f CfA. Si on ajoute ai ce montant t(?nvefopye affectee d T..ARWS-&O.N1O non
prevue initiakntent (25,252} millions cl  F CLFA), on obtient re montant de 292,204 mil7ions de f CjA (so fie disyonibWl).



VI. CONCLUSION
Do rahul..yse (ies PerformcaLces r6alists aui cours de l'ex&ution dIi PIrojet, it
ressort que les objectifs fondamentaux du projet n'ont pu etre totalemnent
atteints en d6pit des ameliorations significatives enregistrees a la fin
d'ex&ution au nivedu de Ia gestion admiiiistrative, technique et financi&re.
Le non-respect des engagements pris par l'Etat, qui s'est traduit par l'execution
A deux vitesses des cinq sites prioritaires retenus (suppression et lancement de
certains sites uniquentent vers la derniere annee d'execution du projet) et
l'incapacite des Attributaires d'executer suivant les regles de l'art leur contrat
(non realisation des plans d'amenagement et la promotion des activites
alternatives) n'ont pas permis de consolider les ressorts acquis du projet. Le
maintieni de ces ressorts au regard de la situation economique et financiere
difficile du pdvs pose la problematique de la poursuite de l'ex6cution du projet
au dela de la periode d'epuisement du financement GEF.  Le projet de
Conservation et de Gestion des Aires Protegees qui a mobilise tant des
ressources materielles, financieres qu'humaines risque de ressembler A un mort
ne si des mesures susmentionnees et visant a sauvegarder les acquis ne sont pas
appliqu6es immediatement. La volonte politique d'ex6cuter A terme les projets
de conservation de la biodiversite (10 % du territoire national) risque de se
limiter aux simples declarations d'intentions si elle ne s'accompagne pas d'un
pragmatisme et d'un realisme doubIl d'une vision prospective du cadre
environnemental.
La communaute internationale qui a bien compris les difficult6s du pavs dans la
realisation de ce projet doit continuer A soutenir les efforts entrepris dans le
domaine de la conservation de la biodiversite. Le contexte de mondialisation et
le renforcement de la cooperation dans le domaine de Ia protection de
l'Environnement doivent A coup sur contribuer A Ia realisation des objectifs de
l'Agenda 21.
-63,--



MAP SECTION






r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ,-                                                                                                                    LS
12°   C O N GO0        14°                       \        CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC_.-
C 0 N G 0                                                                                                  4~~~~~N 
WILDLANDS PROTECTION AND                                                  \    7                  j   -
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                     *f
PROJET DE CONSERVATION ET                                                                        1                  0*
D'AMENAGEMENT DES AIRES PROTEGEES                                                             ' !
PAVED ROADS:                                        C  A  M  EROON R                                                                     0 / 
ROUTES BITUMEES
__    EXISTING
EXISTANTES                   A_                                     a      a _ _a_IraRou
UNDER CONSTRUCTION           Jsank                         Ngbo
EN CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                               2is
GRAVEL ROADS:               /                                                                                          0°
ROTE NON-o REVEiUES         )                                                                                                       4'
__ EXISTING(                                                                                                       t:5    f    IMT
EXISTANTES                   Oars
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
EN CONSTRUCTION                           ...Ep.
UNDER REHABILITATION                    T Ta Mekamba
EN REPECTJON                                                                            '                          6
RAILROADS                                                           !
CNEMINS DE FEERaMkah 
RIVERS                                              beadza                                /i
FLEUVES                                                      ass       _._
MARSH                                        ;Rba                                     ,, \     ,   /i
MARAIS-                                                                         b
MAIN AIRPORS                                  N,ib...C     -,,OEQOO
AEROPRTS PRkNCtPAL                                                  *N o65 toEl---
PORTS                                     /         O    *o.
NATIONAL CAPITALS                                               *                                              /      K 
CAPITALES NATIONALES                         o--.         0                                       O             \
REION CAPITALSWNS
CHEFS-LEUL DE REGION                                            0                       WN DO
OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                j dO       °-
AUTRES VILLES ET LOCALITES                              *   3-  a    Isimas                          -      .
INTERNATIONAL bOUNDARIES                               LOO.
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
/iA a~sbR   2   OP8 ,"                          NUMBER OF INHABITANTS
0        5        lX       ISON     ET 2r0                                LXarŽ                                             ',  NOMBRED'HABfTANTS
G   Aa7 %Ia 0   N                                                                 1                            00,000
OkaySS 00 & S                     
50,000
f                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES
.g.                                                 L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMITES DE REGION  LIKOUALA/
'e                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
)   O~~  '    ,  Kassass  0    V~~~C         Ki,Is                                                               SANBNA
NoE    ;             LSEa  .'0 A0                                                                                                      (  CvTE
CW"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
idp"'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,a.b,rpsb ELLT Ao
aiarba                    --55.WbsaUr
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M0 TRAEZAVI55E
'01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,asd'oI/(
ATLANTIC ~       SaCasslS                                                                                                                                        J



