Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028622 COB
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
GRANT AGREEMENT
(Wildlands Protection and Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated March 4, 1993
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028622 COB
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided 
resources by way of grants into the GET and the Participants have requested, and the 
Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee for the purposes of, and in 
accor-dance with, the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has deter-mined that such assistance would be in accordance with the 
provi-sions of the Resolution;
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient  has obtained, or intends to obtain additional grants 
for complementary activities for the implementa-tion of the Project; and
WHEREAS (E) the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in para-graph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term 'Spec-ial Drawing Rights' and the symbol 
'SDR' mean special drawing rights as valued by the Inter-national 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that, 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the Respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
Page  3
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MAB" means the Man and Biosphere Program of the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and participating countries, 
including the Recipient;
(b)
"Ministry" means the Ministry of Planning, Economy, and Economic 
Projection of the Recipient;
(c)
"DGRST" means the Directorate General of Scientific and Technical 
Research of the Recipient;
(d)
"DFFC" means Directorate for the Conservation of Fauna and Flora;
(e)
"PMU" means the project management unit to be established within the 
Ministry pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) and Schedule 3 (1) (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Reserve" means a protected area already established pursuant to the 
existing laws and regulations of the Recipient;
(g)
"NEAP" means National Environmental Action Plan;
(h)
"Priority Project Sites" means the following five sites: Nouabalé-Ndoki, 
Conkouati, Dimonika, Léfini and Lake Télé-Likouala;
(i)
"Protected Areas" means areas earmarked for the conservation of 
biodiversity;
(j)
"Core Zone" means the inner zone of Protected Areas  which must be left 
absolutely undisturbed from human interference;
(k)
"Gazetting" and "to gazette" means the physical, administrative and legal 
establishment of a Protected Area; and
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure 
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall have established upon request of the Recipient. The Trustee shall 
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, engineering, geological, biological, social and 
financial practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
Page  4
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall open and thereafter maintain an account (the Project 
Account) in a commercial bank in the name of the Project and deposit into the Project 
Account on the first day of each calendar quarter, amounts required to cover his share 
of incremental operating costs according to Schedule 1, Category 5 (a) and (b) of this 
Agreement. Funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used only to cover 
expenditures incurred for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall: 
(a)
carry out a mid-term review no later than June 30, 1995 to assess the 
progress made in the execution of the Project and promptly implement the 
recommendations of said mid-term review as they shall have been agreed upon with the 
Trustee; such mid-term review to cover, inter alia: (i) legal, regulatory and 
institutional changes executed and planned; (ii) management of the five Priority 
Project Sites and quality and adequacy of staff; kind and quality of local 
participation in management of Protected Areas and the execution of alternative 
activities; (iii) definition of the share of the Recipient's contribution to cover the 
operating expenses of the Project; (iv) the review of adequacy of indicators for 
monitoring and evaluating the Project's progress in relation to the achievement of its 
objectives as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with particular emphasis on 
changes in biodiversity and socio-economic behavior of the population concerned, and 
define a program of their application for the remaining completion period of the 
Project; and (v) review the results of NEAP relating to biodiversity conservation and 
modalities of their implementation;
Three months prior to such review, a report shall be submitted to the Trustee, as 
detailed as acceptable to the Trustee, covering project progress in all aspects as to 
be reviewed during the mid-term review, including definite proposals for the 
establishment of the Permanent Structure pursuant to Schedule 3 paragraph (8) (b) of 
this Agreement, and the Trust Fund pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b)
establish, no later than six months after the mid-term review, a Trust 
Fund intended to sustain the Project's achievements, to be governed by regulations 
provided for by law, in accordance with terms and conditions defined by the Project 
and satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-ples 
consistently applied, by independent audi-tors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
Page  5
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are in-clud-ed in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-tors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement:
(a) 
the Recipient has established the PMU, appointed the Project Coordinator 
and the two high-level specialists of said PMU, established the Technical Steering 
Committee and the Peer Review Committee; all in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3, paragraph 1 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Agreement; and has executed 
the action pursuant to the provision of Schedule 3, paragraph 1 (g) of this Agreement;
(b)  
the Ministry has issued an appropriate legal instrument to grant full tax 
exemption to all project related activities, subject to existing laws and regulations 
of the Recipient; 
(c)
the Ministry in charge of forestry has issued an appropriate legal 
instrument prohibiting the prolongation of current, or the issuance of new, logging 
concessions in the five Priority Project Sites pursuant to Schedule 3, paragraph 1 
(f); and
(d)
the Recipient has deposited into the Project Account the amount of FCFA 
five million.
Section 5.02. The following additional items are specified to be included in the 
Legal Opinion pursuant to Section 12.02 of the General Conditions: that the legal 
instruments referred to under (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement be duly 
executed and delivered on behalf of, and legally binding upon, the Recipient in 
accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect during the GET Grant 
disbursement or until the establishment of the Trust Fund pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) 
of this Agreement, whichever event occurs later.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for finance and budget 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance and Budget
B.P. 64
Brazzaville
Congo
Telex:
      9715381
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
By /s/ Nguila Moungounga-Nkombo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as Trustee of the Global Environment
  Trust Fund
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
     Amount of the
  GET Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
    660,000
100%
Page  7
(2)
Vehicles,
  1,070,000
100%
materials
and equip-
ment
(3) 
Consultants'
  2,600,000
100%
services 
(4)   Training
    300,000
100%
(5)
Incremental 
Operating costs:
(a) Fuel & Lubricants
    250,000
60% through
December 31, 1995
and 30% thereafter
(b) Other
  1,420,000
100% through
December 31, 1995
and 50% thereafter
(6)
Unallocated 
    600,000
TOTAL
  6,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means expenses 
incurred for items such as staff contracted for the purposes of the Project, fuel, 
lubricants, maintenance and repair costs for vehicles and equipment related to the 
Project, and travel expenses and subsistence allowances for travel related to the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expendi-tures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide support to the Recipient in its 
effort to protect its ecosystems; to undertake biodiversity conservation management 
activities and to promote alternative economic activities for local populations 
surrounding Protected Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Establishment and Equipping of the Project Management Unit, the 
Technical Steering Committee and the Peer Review Committee
1.
Formulation of a comprehensive regulatory and institutional framework for 
protection and management of Protected Areas in the territory of the Recipient.
2.
Execution of surveys of local populations and carrying out of studies to better 
assess the extent of population pressures on Protected Areas, and design appropriate 
conservation activities.
3.
Monitoring and evaluation of activities aimed at the establishment of Protected 
Areas throughout the territory of the Recipient.
4.
Training of staff and execution of educational campaigns relating to sound 
preservation of ecosystems.
5.
A study to establish a Trust Fund aimed at mobilizing additional funds required 
to sustain the preservation of ecosystems.
Page  8
6.
Participation in sub-regional programs aimed at fostering cooperation in matters 
relating to preservation of ecosystems. 
Part B:
Strengthening of the National Herbarium
1.
Improving the capacity of the technical staff of the herbarium to treat and 
preserve plant samples, carry out inventories and identify plant species.
2.
Upgrading the existing national botanical data base.
3.
Formulation and execution of twinning arrange-ments with interested overseas 
herbaria.
Part C:
Strengthening of the Cartographic Database and Geographic Information 
System
Establishment and development of a database for Protected Areas; establishment 
of a unit for interpretation of aerial photographs and satellite images; strengthening 
mapping activities, and formulation and implementation of twinning arrangements with 
interested overseas counterpart institutes.
Part D:
Protection and Management of Gazetted Protected Areas
1.
Inventories of species and the ecosystem.
2.
Development and execution of management plans including delineating core zones 
and buffer zones and defining appropriate conservation activities to be carried out in 
those zones.
3.
Formulation and carrying out of scientific research programs aimed at a better 
management of the Protected Areas. 
4.
Training of staff in Protected Area management, in particular in antipoaching 
operations.
5.
Formulation and implementation - in close consultation and cooperation with the 
local population - of pilot activities aimed at alleviating pressure on the Protected 
Areas' fauna and flora.
Part E:
Support to Priority Project Sites
1.
Support to the Nouabalé-Ndoki site through inter alia: establishment of an 
efficient protection system; basic infra- structure improvement to allow the 
establishment of a scientif-ic research center; training for staff and execution of: 
(a) studies to determine trends and patterns pertain-ing to (i) mammal poaching, and 
(ii) vegetation dynamics; (b) inventories and monitoring activities aimed at selected 
flora and fauna; and (c) studies to identify the needs and desires of the surrounding 
local population; all these activities in view of designing appropriate reinforcing 
and/or remedial actions.
2.
Support to the Conkouati Reserve through inter alia:
(a)
carrying out biological inventories and studies on the physical 
characteristics of the Reserve with a particular emphasis on its northern part; 
delineating the limits of the Reserve to include marine and coastal areas; defining 
core zones and buffer zones; (b) strengthening the capability of DFFC to carry out 
efficiently its surveillance and protection operations around the Reserve and support 
its efforts to reintroduce chimpanzees seized from poachers; (c) formulating and 
implement-ing a detailed management plan integrating the needs of local communities 
with the requirements of a sustainable management of natural resources; and (d) 
carrying out surveys with a view to: (i) determine the impact and socio-economic 
dynamics of populations surrounding the Reserve and, in particular, the influence of 
the city of Pointe Noire on the Reserve; (ii) develop alternative economic activities 
for the local population; and (iii) carry out educational and awareness activities on 
the benefits of sustainable natural resource-management.
3.
Support to the MAB - Reserve of Dimonika through inter alia: (a) establishment 
of a protection system for the Reserve; and (b) incorporation of local communities in 
the formulation of a new policy for sustainable natural resource management, including 
the promotion of alternative economic activities for communities in buffer zones of 
the Reserve.
Page  9
4.
Support to the Léfini Reserve through inter alia:
(a) 
formulating and implementing a detailed reserve management plan;
(b)
reinforcing reserve protection operations;
(c) 
supporting current efforts to reintroduce in the reserve gorillas 
reclaimed from poachers; and
 (d) 
formulating and implementing an outreach program aimed at raising public 
awareness on the need for, and benefits to be derived from, a sustainable approach 
towards natural resource management.
5.
Support of the Lake Télé-Likouala site through inter alia:
(a) 
collection of baseline data and documents required to gazette the site;
(b) 
formulation of a preliminary management plan for the site;
(c) 
development of alternative activities for surrounding communities;
(d) 
formulation and implementation of educational and awareness activi-ties 
on natural resource management; and
(e) 
mobilization of funding required for a sustained protection of the site.
6.
Carrying out of supplementary studies and inventories for the possible inclusion 
of future Protected Areas.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
establish a PMU as an interim management structure, under the tutelage of 
the Ministry, to be fused into the Permanent Structure as defined in this Schedule, 
paragraph 8 (b), under the supervision of a Project Coordinator;
(b)
appoint a Project Coordinator, chosen by competitive selection advertized 
in the local media, whose major responsibility shall be: the management of the PMU, 
with authority to engage expenditures in the name of the Project up to amounts of 
$125,000 equivalent per contract; the coordination of operations, and the preparation 
and submission to the Trustee of: (i) semi-annual progress reports on Project 
implementation; (ii) the mid-term review report; and (iii) the Project completion 
report; the Coordinator shall at all times be satisfactory to the Trustee;
(c)
appoint two high level specialists to assist the Project Coordinator in 
his tasks, chosen by competitive selection advertized in the local media, with 
qualifications and experience: the first, in monitoring and evaluation of 
environmental activities, and the second, in the technical follow-up of activities 
concerning the Protected Areas; these specialists shall be at all times satis- factory 
to the Trustee;
(d)
establish a Technical Steering Committee to be chaired by the Minister in 
charge of Protected Areas, with membership, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Trustee;
(e)
establish the Peer Review Committee comprised of three internationally 
selected specialists: an ecologist, an economist and an anthropologist/sociologist, 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Trustee, to meet on an annual 
basis to review the scientific progress of Project implementation;
(f)
prohibit the prolongation of current, or the issuance of new, logging 
concessions in the Priority Project Sites until the Permanent Structure pursuant to 
this Schedule, paragraph 8 (b), is established; and
Page  10
(g)
submit the training program for the first year of Project activities to 
the Trustee, acceptable to the latter.
2.
By June 30, 1993 the Recipient shall:
(a)
begin to deploy his staff in the Priority Project Sites; and
(b)
submit its first semi-annual progress report in as much detail as the 
Trustee may reasonably request, to be followed by similar reports every six months 
thereafter until the completion of the Project.
3.
By April 30, 1994 the Recipient shall submit to the Trustee the first audit of 
project accounts pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, to be followed by 
similar reports every year thereafter until the completion of the Project.
4.
By June 30, 1994 the Recipient shall submit to the Trustee:
(a)
a proposition relative to the appropriate institutional and statutory 
framework required to achieve the Project's objectives, in particular the conservation 
of Protected Areas, taking into consideration the existing legislation of the 
Recipient relating to the conservation of flora and fauna and the protection of the 
environment, thus including the "Code Forestier" and the "Loi sur l'Environnement";
(b)
a draft of its regulations concerning the Permanent Structure referred to 
in this Schedule, paragraph 8 (b), providing for administrative and financial 
autonomy, possibly including the authority to generate revenues; 
(c)
a draft of the regulations intended to govern the five administrative 
bodies which shall administer the Priority Project Sites, under the tutelage of the 
Permanent Structure referred to in this Schedule, paragraph 8 (b), each ruled by 
specific regulations, providing for: (i) administrative and financial autonomy, 
including possible authority to generate revenues; and (ii) adequate local 
participation in the management of said sites; and
(d)
a record of actions undertaken to gazette the Priority Project Sites; and
(e)
a staffing list of manpower deployed at headquarters and in each of the 
Protected Areas.
5.
By March 31, 1995 the Recipient shall submit to the Trustee a report pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, in preparation for the mid-term review.
6.
By June 30, 1995 the Recipient shall carry out a mid-term review pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
7.
By September 30, 1995 the Recipient shall submit the mid-term review report to 
the Trustee. 
8.
By December 31, 1995 the Recipient shall:
(a)
have established such legal framework as proposed to the Trustee and 
agreed to at the mid-term review, including the prohibition of all economic activity 
in the core zones of the Priority Project Sites and limitation of activities in their 
buffer zones pursuant to the proposals made to, and approved by, the Trustee;
(b)
have established a Permanent Structure subject to the proposals of the 
mid-term review, to be responsible nationwide for all activities related to the 
conservation of biodiversity; this structure to emanate from the PMU and to replace 
it; 
(c)
have established five administrative bodies, each responsible for one of 
the Priority Project Sites pursuant to paragraph 4 (c) of this Schedule; 
(d)
have deployed qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers at 
headquarters and in all Priority Project Sites; and
(e)
establish the Trust Fund pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
9.
By June 30, 1998 the Recipient shall submit a project completion report 
pursuant to Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  11
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, vehicles and goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and equipment shall be grouped 
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Civil works, up to an amount equivalent to $330,000, may be awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB). The remainder, up to an amount 
equivalent to $720,000, may be procured through direct contracting with the NGOs in 
charge of executing some of the Project site-specific components; LCB and direct 
contracting procedures to be satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $270,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of LCB, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Trustee. 
3.
Vehicles for an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $140,000 and 
goods for an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers, from at least two different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Trustee.
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$130,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that two conformed copies 
of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 2 
(d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5  to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  12
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such re-quest, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evi-dence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined   that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
Page  13
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule or otherwise not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
