GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Tu rkey  -
BiodiversIty and Natur0I RI. ures
Management Project
Project Document
-June 2000
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters.
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly impiemented
by the united Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment Coordination
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 19876-TUl
Turkey
Biodiversity and Natural Resources
Management Project
Project Document
June 2000
Division
Departnent
Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TRL)
535,260 TRL = US$ 1
US$ 1 = 535,260 TRL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASPA       Agency for Specially Protected Areas             MOE        Ministry of Environment
BCAC       Biodiversity Conservation Awareness Committee    MoED       Ministry of Education
BIC        Biodiversity Integration Committee               MOF        Ministry of Forestry
BLPRC    Biodiversity Legal and Policy Review Committee     MOI        Ministry of Interior
BMU        Biodiversity Monitoring Unit                     MOT        Ministry of Tourism
BSAP       Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan            MRS        Ministry of Reconstruction and Settlements
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                      MTA        Institute of Mineral Exploration
CBD        Convention on Biological Diversity               NWC        Non-Wood Forest Products Comrnittee
COP        Convention of the Parties                        NEAP       National Envirownent Action Plan
DHKD       Society for the Protection of Nature             NGO        Non-govermmental Organization
DHKV       Kayseri Foundation for the Protection of Nature  OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
DSI        State Hydraulic Works                            ORKOY    General Directorate of Forest and Village Relations
EC         Eco-Tourism Committee                            PA         Protected Area
FAO        Food and Agricultural Organization of the United  PAC       Project Advisory Committee
Nations
FSC        Forest Stewardship Council                       PACPF      Protected Area Conservation and Protection Foundation
GC         Grazing Committee                                PAMA       Protected Area Management Authority
GDAR       General Directorate of Agricultural Reform       PARU       Protected Area Replication Unit
GDF        General Directorate of Forestry                  PIC        Project Implementation Commnittee
GDEP       General Directorate for Environmental Protection  PMR       Project Management Report
GDNP       General Directorate of National Parks, Game and  PMT        Project Management Team
Wildlife
GDF        General Directorate for Forestry                 OP         Operational Program
GDCNEC   General Directorate of Cultural and Entities       RC         Reed Committee
Conservation
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                           SGP         Small Grants Program
GDAEC    General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion   SRUC        Sustainable Resource Use Committee
Control
GDRH       General Directorate of Roads and Highways        SPO        State Planning Organization
GDRS       General Directorate of Rural Services            STKV       Society for the Protection of Sultan Sazligi
GEF        Global Environment Facility                      TEMA       Turkish Foundation for Erosion Control
GEF STAP GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel        TKV        Turkish Development Foundation
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development TOR   Terms of Reference
MARA       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs        TRT         Turkish Radio and Television
MENR       Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources         WWF        World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President:    Joharnes F. Linn
Country Mlanager/Director:       Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager/Director:       Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    John Fraser Stewart



TURKEY
BIODIVERSITY AND NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      7
3. Benefits and target population                                                     8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          13
2. Financial                                                                         13
3. Technical                                                                         14
4. Institutional                                                                     14
5. Social                                                                            14
6. Environment                                                                       15
7. Participatory Approach    .                                                       15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    16
2. Critical risks                                                                    17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    17



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            18
2. Other                                                                              18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          19
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         38
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                       39
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            64
MAP(S)



TURKEY
Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: February 28, 1999                           Team Leader: John W. Fraser Stewart
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber           Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P044175                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): ENVIRONMENT
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan         K] Credit       1 Grant         II Guarantee    K] Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditsIOth'ers:
Amount (US$m): 8.2
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years):                                 Years to maturity:
Commitment fee:
Government                                                     3.20           0.15          3.35
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    5.12           3.07          8.19
Total:                                                         8.32           3.22          11.54
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
Responsible agency: GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL PARKS, GAME & WILDLIFE, MOF
Local offices of the General Directorate of Forestry and the Ministry of Environment, the General Directorate of
Environmental Protection
Address: Milli Parklar Av ve Yaban Hayati Genel Mudurlugu, Ataturk Orman Ciftligi, ANKARA
Contact Person: Mesut Kamiloglu
Tel: (312) 212 9265               Fax: (312) 222 5140               Email:
Estimated disbursements Bank FYIUSSM):
FD
Annual     1.3           2.3         2.3         0.9         0.8         0.6
Cumulative     1.3          3.6          5.9        6.8         7.6          8.2
Project Implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/15/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAfl Fonil R.,.k,,  2DO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to establish effective, intersectoral, participatory planning and sustainable
management of protected areas and natural resources at four selected biodiversity conservation
demonstration sites, and build capacity at the national level to facilitate replication of these activities at
priority conservation sites throughout Turkey.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators of project impact are:
(a) Reduced rate of decline of biodiversity, habitats and plant communities at project sites;
(b) No increase in adverse impacts of resource use (grazing, forest products, etc.) on biodiversity in project
sites;
(c) Decrease in destruction of natural formations and cultural sites within project sites;
(d) Decrease in uncontrolled/unplanned construction within and around project sites;
(e) No increase in percentage of area degraded by tourism impacts at project sites;
(f) Increase in public support for biodiversity conservation at national and local level;
(g) Legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation established, and
(h) Improvement of social indicators linked with the use of natural resources at project sites.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 1 6992-TU                   Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/06/97
The project will implement strategic actions identified in the CAS, including: (i) strengthening the policy,
regulatory and management capabilities of the Ministry of Environment (MoE), and establish a database
and monitoring program; (ii) conducting public awareness campaigns and promote stakeholder
participation in project preparation, implementation and enforcement; and (iii) formulating and
implementing with stakeholders, a natural resource conservation strategy to address legal, policy/regulatory
and public awareness issues. Preparation of this project is an environmental benchmark identified in the
CAS.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Global obiective of the project is sustainable conservation of the biological diversity and ecological
integrity of selected forest, wetland, steppe and alpine ecosystems that are representative of Turkey's four
major biogeographic zones. These include the Black Sea and Caucasian mountain region; the Central
Anatolian plateau; and the European and Mediterranean regions.
Turkey ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in December 1996. The project is consistent
with the GEF Operational Strategy, especially the Operational Programs for Forest Ecosystems (OP3),
- 2-



Mountains (OP4) and Coastal, Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems (OP2). The project will support
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in a biodiversity-rich country through the establishment of
effective protected areas and integrating conservation into local land use. Project sites fall within the
Global 200 priority biodiversity sites (WWF).
The project is consistent with the Convention of the Parties (COP) guidance, as it focuses on conservation
and sustainable use of critical ecosystems and threatened endemic species, and supports the active
involvement of local communities as managers and beneficiaries of better forest and land management. It
responds to guidance of the third meeting of the COP through promoting economic incentives and
alternative livelihood opportunities for local communities through capacity building, and by integrating
biodiversity issues into improved management in the forestry, agricultural and tourism sectors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Turkey is one of the most biologically diverse countries in the temperate world. One third of the 9,000 plant
species found in the country are exclusive to Turkey. Turkish flora includes many wild relatives of
important domestic species (e.g., wheat, barley, chic pea, lentil, cherry, pear, apricot, chestnut, pistachio,
etc.). In addition to agricultural species, the Turkish flora also includes many commercially important
timber species, and medicinal, aromatic, industrial and ornamental plants. Since domestication of plants
took place in the region, there are a wide variety of land races of domestic species whose genetic resources
could be of inmmeasurable economic value for breeding crop species with specific disease resistance and
other desirable characteristics. In addition, one of the three major flyways for millions of migratory birds,
which move between the Western Palearctic and Africa each year, passes through Turkey. Since the
country is predominantly semi-arid, Turkish wetlands are of crucial importance for many of these migrants,
and also for many breeding species of water birds, including a significant proportion of the global
populations of some species.
The General Directorate for National Parks Game and Wildlife (GDNP), within the Ministry of Forestry
(MoF) is responsible for establishing and managing the majority of Turkey's various categories of protected
areas and has a nationwide network of field based staff. MoF is also responsible for managing all forest
lands. One quarter of Turkey's land area (20 million ha) is classified as forest land. MoE is responsible
for regulation of environmental management across all sectors and for observing Turkey's obligations under
the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Ramsar, CITES and Bern Conventions.
Major issues influencing the sustainability of natural resource use and the conservation of biodiversity in
Turkey include: (i) weak capacity to implement the overall strategy for environmental management; (ii)
forest resource planning and utilization systems do not adequately incorporate environmental and
biodiversity conservation issues; (iii) unsustainable range and grazing resource management systems; (iv)
lack of inter-sectoral coordination, particularly between conservation agencies and the Ministries
responsible for regulation of tourism development, management of cultural heritage, and the use of water
resources, and (v) lack of public awareness of the importance of Turkish biodiversity and the urgent need
for effective conservation initiatives. The impact of these sector issues on Turkey's natural resources has
been exacerbated by a high population growth rate, rapid urbanization, and intensification of agriculture.
Turkish authorities are becoming increasingly aware of the threats to sustainable resource management
associated with rural development, and are taking action to address them. MoE, which was established in
1991, has developed environmental assessment procedures, and a new environmental law is being reviewed
by Parliament. A National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) has been prepared with the involvement of
the Government, Municipalities, the private sector and NGO community. As part of the NEAP process,
-3-



and with GEF support, the Government also prepared a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
(BSAP), which in turn guided identification of this project. In April 1999, the Government also
successfully completed the pilot phase the GEF-financed In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Resources
Project.
The Government is committed to incorporating environmental and biodiversity conservation issues into
forest resource management. Current forest resource management plans do not adequately recognize the
importance of forest biodiversity or fully address the needs of forest communities, which include 9 million
of the country's poorest people, whose economic dependency on forest resources constitutes a significant
threat to Turkish forest resources and biodiversity. Consequently, MoF is developing programs to involve
local communities in forest management and, with the assistance of the World Bank, has undertaken a
review of the forestry sector, with a view to implementing reforms that would (a) alleviate poverty among
forest communities, and (b) establish sustainable forest resource planning and management systems that
will recognize the value of all forest products and services, specifically including biodiversity. Reforms
recommended under the Forestry Sector Review may be implemented under a proposed natural resource
management project.
The Government is supporting sustainable range and grazing resource management through the World
Bank supported Eastern Anatolia Watershed Project. This project is building experience in the use of a
participatory approach to developing community based sustainable natural resource management in project
provinces where one of the major land uses is grazing. Encouraging progress has led the Government to
increase the number of provinces included in the project (including Antalya, which is where one of the GEF
project demonstration sites is located). With regard to water resources, the Government is supporting
widespread establishment of water users associations for operation and maintenance of irrigation systems,
which should lead to more efficient water use.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will assist the Government to address the above sector issues and implement priorities
identified in the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP) by reviewing the
legal framework for conservation, building the capacity for protected area planning and management at the
field and central levels, and raising awareness of the importance and urgency of biodiversity conservation
in Turkey. This will be achieved through preparing and implementing protected area management plans at
four priority conservation sites and developing mechanisms and priorities for replication of this experience
to establish an effective network of protected areas throughout Turkey. The project will build some of the
new skills in inter-sectoral and participatory planning and management, that will be necessary to establish
effective conservation and sustainable natural resource management systems.
To assist the Government in promoting sustainable range and grazing resource management, the project
will develop social mechanisms for community management of shared grazing resources, which could be
expanded under the context of the Eastern Anatolian Watershed Project and the proposed natural resource
management project. To support sustainable use of water resources, the project will build on positive
collaboration that has been initiated between conservation organizations and State Hydraulic Works (DSI),
and will demonstrate how formal mechanisms for constructive collaboration can be established and
implemented for Turkey's priority freshwater wetland ecosystems.
The project will work closely with the Ministry of Tourism (MoT), Ministry of Culture (MoC), tourism
associations and local tour operators to integrate biodiversity conservation into tourism development
planning. The goal is to demonstrate how environmentally responsible tourism can support the objectives
- 4 -



of conservation at the four project demonstration sites, and how such successful partnerships could be
replicated elsewhere in the country. A number of national and local NGOs are actively involved in
promoting public awareness of the need for environmental protection, conservation and sustainable rural
development. The project will build on this experience and fuirther strengthen the capacity of these NGOs
and the Government to identify key target audiences, and develop and implement effective programs to
raise awareness of the importance of the project objectives and their relationship to the strategic initiatives
outlined above.
Major Sector Issue                      Strategic Choice
Implementation of national environmental  The project will implement priority actions
priorities                                identified in the national biodiversity strategy.
Unsustainable forest resource management  The project will demonstrate how environmental
extemalities, including biodiversity, can be
incorporated in forest management planning
systems.
Unsustainable use of grazing resources    The project will establish and demonstrate
participatory mechanisms for sustainable use of
shared pastoral resources by community based
organizations.
Management of water resources             The project will build effective collaboration
between water resources management and
conservation institutions (Government and NGOs)
at Sultan Sazligi and Igneada.
Impacts of uncontrolled tourism development    The project will build effective collaboration
between MoT, MoC, tour operators and
conservation agencies, and will demonstrate how
biodiversity conservation can be incorporated in
planning and management of tourism at
biodiversity conservation and cultural sites.
Lack of public awareness                  The project will build capacity to develop and
implement targeted programs to raise awareness of
the importance and opportunities for biodiversity
conservation in Turkey.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will establish effective participatory systems for sustainable conservation and natural resource
management at four pilot sites selected from each of Turkey's four main biogeographic zones and will build
the national capacity and public support to catalyze replication of this experience to develop a nationwide
- 5 -



network of protected areas. It will also review the legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity
conservation and explore opportunities for mainstreaming biodiversity conservation in forest planning and
management, local land use planning, tourism development, agricultural extension and environmental
management of water systems. The project's four pilot sites include:
(a) Caucasian mixed temperate rain forest and high alpine meadows of Camili Forest District,
Artvin Province, North East Black Sea mountains (27,000 ha., altitude 400-3,500m).
(b) Wetland and steppe ecosystems of Sultan Sazligi-Erciyes protected area, Kayseri, Central
Anatolian Plateau (18,000 ha., altitude 1,000-3,000m).
(c) Mediterranean forest and high alpine ecosystems of the Taurus mountains in Koprulu Kanyon
National Park, Taurus Mountains, Southern Turkey (approximately 40,000 ha., altitude 400-2,500m).
(d) Alluvial forest with associated aquatic and coastal ecosystems at Igneada, Kirklareli, protected
and wildlife management areas of the Thracean Black Sea coast, (2,500 ha.).
Different conservation challenges will be addressed at each of the four project sites. These include the
impacts of existing or encroaching mass tourism, unsustainable use of common resources and inadequate
coordination of biodiversity conservation initiatives with sectoral and local land use planning. The project
will address priority conservation planning and management challenges that are common to many priority
biodiversity sites throughout Turkey and will provide practical experience to support effective
implementation of the national biodiversity conservation strategy.
....... ....~
. ..A~~~~~~~~~~~!~~~~L    USM~~~..  ..
Strengthen the National        Environmental       3.29       28.5       2.55      0.00        0.0
Framework for Biodiversity     Institutions
Conservation
Develop Prototypes for Protected   Natural         7.69        66 6      5 25      0.00        0.0
Area Management                Resources
Management
Project Management and         Institutional       0.56         4.9      0.40      0.00        0.0
Monitoring                     Development
Total Project Costs _                 11.54       100.0      8.20      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                    11.54      100.0       8.20      0.00        0.0
The Project includes the following three components:
Component 1: Strengthening the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation (US$ 3.29
million) will be achieved through: (i) participatory review and development of a strategy for rationalizing
the legal framework for biodiversity conservation, including removal of overlapping sectoral legislation and
policy, and adjustment of other legislation impacting on biodiversity; (ii) strengthening the institutional
capacity to develop a national network of protected areas and replicate the experience of effective
-6-



participatory protected area management systems developed at the four project sites. This will include
assessing and developing sustainable financing mechanisms to support conservation initiatives; (iii)
establishing a system to monitor the status of biodiversity and conservation initiatives throughout the
country; (iv) developing and implementing a prioritized national strategy and targeted action plan for
raising the awareness of key stakeholders and the general public about the importance, urgent needs and
opportunities for biodiversity conservation in Turkey; and (v) demonstrating how biodiversity issues can be
incorporated in the forest management planning process at three of the four project sites.
Component 2: Developing Prototypes for Effective Protected Area Management (US$ 7.69 million)
will entail establishing innovative systems for conservation management at the project's four pilot sites.
This will be achieved through: (i) building Protected Area Management Authority (PAMA) staff skills,
developing protected area management planning systems, including exploring mechanisms for generating
and retaining revenues at the sites, and providing equipment and facilities, including visitor interpretation,
educational and/or community centers; (ii) preparing protected area management plans in a participatory
manner and guided by baseline ecological and socio-economic surveys and biodiversity monitoring systems
that the project will establish. The monitoring systems will provide periodic feedback to protected area
management staff on the status of ecosystems and their biodiversity, particularly in relation to existing and
anticipated threats such as tourism impacts, grazing and the use of forest or wetland resources; (iii)
building local support for biodiversity conservation through a public awareness and education program
targeted at key stakeholder groups; (iv) facilitating establishment of community based mechanisms, such as
small grant schemes or revolving funds, to support conservation-linked development and reduce
unsustainable use of shared resources such as forest and wetland products and grazing. Eligibility criteria
and procedures for awarding grants/funds will be developed during the first year of project implementation,
in consultation with local stakeholders, and approved by the Bank prior to disbursement of funds; (v)
guiding the development of environmentally responsible tourism that emphasizes linkages between
conservation and benefits for local stakeholders; and (vi) establishing collaborative mechanisms to ensure
biodiversity conservation is incorporated in local sectoral and land use plans.
Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring (US$ 0.56 million) includes providing equipment
and covers incremental expenses associated with implementation of the project by the Project Management
Team (PMT) at the national level. PMT will oversee and support implementation of all project activities in
accordance with agreed monitorable indicators. It will work closely with PAMA staff at the four sites, and
with agency staff responsible for implementing project activities at the national level, and will develop and
monitor work plans for all project activities on a biannual basis.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Key reforms supported by the project include: (i) improved collaboration among sectoral ministries to
facilitate conservation objectives, including establishment of effective protected area and sustainable
natural resource management; (ii) harmonization of sectoral legislation and policy that impacts on
biodiversity conservation; (iii) development of a strategic approach and criteria for identification of priority
conservation sites to ensure that limited financial resources can be directed to establishing a protected area
system that effectively conserves viable portions of all Turkish ecosystems; (iv) development of
decentralized participatory systems for preparation and implementation of protected area management
plans; and (v) incorporation of biodiversity conservation in the forest management planning process.
- 7-



3. Benefits and target population:
By addressing conservation planning and management issues common to many important biodiversity sites
throughout Turkey and providing models for replication in priority conservation areas in other parts of the
country and the region, the project will provide ecological, social, economic and institutional benefits at the
global, regional, national and project site levels.
By contributing to the sustainable conservation management of biologically rich ecosystems in all four of
Turkey's major biogeographic zones and developing mechanisms for strategic expansion of an effective
system of protected areas throughout the country, the project will result in both national and global benefits
. Additionally, the project will contribute to multi-national, regional initiatives to ensure conservation of
the Caucasian region. At the national level, the project will strengthen and build the institutional and
technical capacity of the public agencies that are responsible for biodiversity conservation management in
Turkey. National beneficiaries include Government (MoF, MoE and MoC), NGOs and the public at large,
whose awareness and appreciation of Turkey's natural assets will be increased through public awareness
and education programs supported by the project.
At the project sites, the project will develop decentralized institutional anrangements and build mechanisms
and capacity to assist stakeholders to develop and imnplement conservation and resource use management
plans. Sustainable management of the sites will directly benefit poor rural communities by stimulating
local economies within and around the sites through environmentally responsible income generating
activities, including eco-tourism, non-wood forest products marketing, etc. Local beneficiaries will include
local communities and their organizations, as well as implementing agencies, NGOs and the private sector.
The project will also increase public awareness of biodiversity at the local level through local public
awareness and education programs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 6 years.
A Project Advisory Committee (PAC) consisting of representatives from relevant Ministries and
institutions, including MoF, MoE, MoC and other relevant ministries and institutions will be established by
MoF. The committee, which will meet on a biannual basis, will be responsible for providing project
oversight advice, inter-ministerial coordination, and assistance in resolving issues associated with project
implementation. The head of the Planning and Coordination Council of MoF will chair the PAC.
Project Management at the National Level: MoF will have overall responsibility for the project, including
procurement, disbursement, maintenance of project accounts and coordination of implementation. For this
purpose, MoF will establish a Proiect Management Team (PMT), attached to MoF's General Directorate
for National Parks, Game and Wildlife (GDNP). MoF will assign full time staff members to the PMT for
the duration of project implementation, including a project coordinator, a procurement officer and a
financial manager. In addition to responsibility for overall management of project activities, PMT will
supervise Protected Area Management Authorities (PAMAs) at the four project sites, and project activities
being implemented at the national level.
Project Implementation at the National Level: Under the supervision of PMT, MoE's General Directorate
for Environmental Protection (GDEP) and MoF's General Directorate for Forestry (GDF) and GDNP will
be responsible for carrying out project activities at the national level. With the assistance of the project: (i)
GDEP will review sectoral policy, legal, and regulatory aspects of biodiversity conservation and, in
collaboration with MoF, will prepare and implement an effective public awareness strategy to build support
-8 -



for key biodiversity conservation issues; (ii) GDNP will develop the capacity to catalyze development of an
effective system of protected areas, and (iii) GDF will provide information management services for GDNP
to establish a system to monitor the status of biodiversity and the effectiveness of the protected area
network. The project will also build MoFs capacity for incorporating biodiversity concerns in forest
management planning.
Project Implementation (Local Level): PAMAs will be established within MoF at each of the four project
sites (Antalya/Beskonak in Manavgat County; Borcka/Camili in Borcka County; Igneada in Demirkoy
County, and at Sultan Sazligi in Yesilhisar County) and will be responsible for implementing project
activities at the field level. Each PAMA will include a protected area manager, an accountant, an
ecologist/biodiversity specialist, a community outreach specialist and a GIS/information specialist All
PAMA staff will be assigned and paid by MoF. A team of experienced technical and management
consultants will advise, train and assist PMT, GDF, GDNP, GDEP and the four PAMAs as necessary.
Financial Management and Accounting
The financial management and accounting preparedness of the project has been reviewed by the Financial
Management Specialist for the project and by the country Financial Management Officer at the Turkey
Country Office and has been found to be satisfactory. A detailed review of the arrangements are provided
in Annex 6.
Organization Structure, Special Accounts and Accounting System
The Financial Management and Accounting function for the Project is centralized at the PMT. Project
books of accounts for the PMT and the PAMAs are kept at the PMT (in parallel to the sets of accounts
maintained by the PAMAs). All contracts and tender documents are issued by the PMT even though much
of the preparatory work on tender documentation and contracts are undertaken by the PAMAs. The PMT
is also responsible for operating the Special Account and for submitting SOEs to the Bank
The Ministry of Forestry keeps its books of accounts on a cash basis of accounting in accordance with
intenationally acceptable principles (Based on a review of the National Chart of Accounts and format of
fmancial statements). The PMT and the PAMAs use a computerzed accounting system for keeping their
books of accounts and is able to generate the financial statements as per the requirements of the
Government.
Audit
In Turkey, by law, books of accounts of govermment agencies cannot be audited by independent auditors.
All World Bank projects for which the borrowers is a government agency are audited by the Treasury
Auditors. Funds have been provided for in the project for appointing independent auditors in the event that
the Government allows an independent audit.
The PMT will submit unaudited financial statements for the project by three months after the close of every
fiscal year and audited statements within six months after the close of every fiscal year.
Project Management Reports (PMRs) LACI
The Ministry of Forestry has selected not to use PMR based disbursement for the project during the first
year of the project. A decision on PMR based disbursement will be made after the first audited report is
-9-



submitted. The main problem with PMR based disbursement would be the certification (or endorsement)
of the PMRs prior to them being sent to Bank. The PMT would have to depend on the Treasury to perform
a quarterly review of the PMRs within 30-35 days of every quarter (in order to meet the Bank's deadline of
45 days) which may be difficult. The PMT will send the Bank PMRs on a quarterly basis from the quarter
ended December 31, 2000 or earlier.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Rationale for Project Design: The project design was prepared through a facilitated participatory process
that assisted the Turkish project management team to identify and agree on existing and anticipated threats
to biodiversity and their underlying causes, and then developed project components and activities to address
these root causes. The project rationale, summarizing the linkages between threats,. causes, desired project
outcomes and project components is summarized in Attachment 2 of Annex 2.
During project identification, the National Biodiversity Steering Committee considered a short
list of twelve potential project demonstration sites prior to selecting the four that are the focus
of the project. Sites were selected so as to include: (a) representation of each of Turkey's four
major biogeographic zones; (b) examples of the major challenges to biodiversity conservation in
Turkey, and (c) biodiversity of national and global significance. In addition, the feasibility of
implementing conservation management and the presence or absence of other national or
international conservation initiatives was taken into consideration in selecting the location and
number of sites. Experience gained at the four project demonstration sites will be replicated
during the second half of project implementation, in the context of a prioritized action plan for
establishment of an effective national protected area network. In this way, the project will both
demonstrate and catalyze establishment of effective conservation systems in Turkey.
Without Proiect Scenario: While Government commitment to biodiversity conservation is indicated by the
existence of a large number of protected areas, few of these are managed effectively. In the absence of
priority setting for conservation and coordination among key sectors, conservation initiatives are poorly
targeted and resources are spread too thinly. Importantly, implementing agencies lack the necessary new
skills in participatory intersectoral planning and establishing mechanisms for sustainable shared resource
and conservation management that will be essential if Turkey is to effectively safeguard its valuable
biological heritage under the changing social and economic pressures. In the absence of the project,
Govermment and NGO groups concemed with conservation would remain poorly equipped, uncoordinated
and unable to effectively address short and medium term threats and the ongoing degradation of Turkish
biodiversity and natural resources would continue.
Project Alternatives.
Project preparation considered and rejected the following altematives:
Selection of alternative proiect demonstration sites: Two priority sites were identified by the GEF financed
conservation strategy for the Black Sea, but were not included in the project. The Turkish technical
committee responsible for selecting project sites concluded that conservation management would be
impractical at one of these priority sites, because large scale tourism investment is too great of a threat, and
not necessary at the other, which is being addressed by the Turkish NGO community. Consequently, two
alternative sites within the Black Sea basin were chosen for the project.
- 10 -



Adoption of prescriptive protected area management plans for project sites: During preparation,
consultants developed framework management plans for all project sites. However, these plans were not
preceded by adequate baseline surveys and, hence, were based on limited information about biodiversity
and patterns of resource use. More importantly, the plans were developed without participation of local
stakeholders living in and around the sites. Since experience in Turkey and elsewhere indicates that
successful conservation management solutions must be developed through a participatory process of
stakeholder involvement, management plans developed by the consultants during preparation will not be
adopted at the sites but, instead, will be used as a source of background and reference material. Thorough
baseline surveys of ecosystems and resource use will be undertaken during implementation, and will be
used to guide the participatory development and implementation of conservation management plans.
Concession management of protected areas by the private sector: While this suggestion has merit in its
potential for reducing Government costs associated with protected area management, the Government
currently lacks adequate regulatory and monitoring mechanisms to ensure that biodiversity conservation
concerns would not take second place to the drive for profit in areas where concessions are possible. The
project will help strengthen the Government's capacity to regulate and monitor biodiversity conservation,
while exploring a range of options for future financing and decentralized management of protected areas,
including concession management.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Setr   tfoPrjc                                            {S   Raig
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    . , ,, .. . . .. ..... ,.--,-,-,, ' ...-
Imptementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objecdve (DO)
Eastern Anatolia Watershed        S             S
Project (ongoing)
GEF financed                      In-situ Gene Conservation         S             S
(completed)
Forestry Sector
Review-completed (includes
support from the Global
Environmental Overlays
Program and FAO/CP)
National Environmental Action
Plan - completed
Other development agencies
FAO                               Protected Areas Training
(completed)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 11 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed GEF project would build on the experience of the Turkish pilot phase GEF project (In-Situ
Conservation of Genetic Resources), the Eastern Anatolian Watershed Project, and other pilot phase GEF
biodiversity conservation projects in the region (e.g., Belarus, Poland, Romania, Trans-Carpathians and
Ukraine). These projects have clearly demonstrated the need to: (a) address socio-economic issues linitng
local communities with natural resource use in project design; (b) use a transparent and participatory
approach to developing natural resource management plans; (c) actively support the development of
productive working relationships between sector Ministries and the NGO community, and (d) mobilize
Turkish NGO capacity to contribute constructively to planing and implementation of natural resource
conservation and rural development programs.
The project design particularly benefits from lessons learned in Turkey from the In-Situ Conservation of
Genetic Resources Project These include (a) the need to involve key sectoral agencies in coordinating
in-situ conservation initiatives, (b) the importance of establishing a core team within the implementing
agency that is equipped with the necessary skills to assist implementing units with procurement and
administrative matters, and (c) the importance of local community participation in the design of
conservation management plans.
The principal recommendations of the GEF STAP reviewer have been incorporated into the project design
and will be addressed during implementation. These include the need to: (i) build effective interagency
collaboration at the national level; (ii) establish inter-sectoral collaboration at the local level through project
implementation committees; (iii) develop capacity for spatial planning to safeguard conservation priorities;
(iv) develop mechanism for conflict resolution that will support benefit sharing among stakeholders; and (v)
strengthen the capacity of NGOs to work collaboratively with the Government in supporting conservation
and the sustainable use of natural resources.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government of Turkey first expressed interest in a possible second GEF biodiversity project in mid
1994. Turkey prepared a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP) between 1995-97,
ensuring the participation of numerous sectoral agencies and the NGO community. National priorities
identified in the strategy preparation process guided development of the concept for this project.
With the assistance of the World Bank, MoF recently undertook a review of the forestry sector with a view
to implementing reforms that would establish sustainable forest resource planning and management
systems, and alleviate poverty among forest communities. An integral component of the forestry sector
review is a Global Environmental Overlay, which estimates the values, costs and benefits of incorporating
all forest products and services, specifically including biodiversity, within the forest management planning
process. The forestry sector review recognizes the great importance of Turkish biodiversity and
recommends its inclusion in forest management planning and the incorporation of appropriate economic
and scientific criteria for identification and management of priority protected areas. The project provides
the Government with an opportunity to demonstrate how recommendations of the sector review can be
implemented with respect to biodiversity conservation. Best practices developed by the project, will
subsequently be applied throughout the country, with the assistance of this project and a proposed natural
resource management program, which will build on the successes of the Eastern Anatolia Watershed
Management Project.
Government commitment to biodiversity conservation is also indicated by the successful completion of the
GEF pilot phase In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Resources Project, and the State Planning Organization's
- 12 -



commitment to allocate approximately US$3.2 million equivalent from the Treasury for all recurrent and a
portion of the incremental costs of this project.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
GEF support is warranted because of the global significance of the forest, steppe and alpine ecosystems in
the demonstration sites and the need for incremental financing for their long-term protection. Without GEF
support, it would not be possible to develop and implement the conservation actions needed for these
globally significant areas. The Bank adds value to the project through its experience in Turkey and its
ability to build on experience gained in development of NEAP, BSAP, the Eastem Anatolia Watershed
Management Project, ongoing sector work in the Turkish forestry sector, and biodiversity and forestry
projects throughout the region. It also brings experience of GEF and Bank activities in forestry,
biodiversity conservation and natural resource management throughout the region, and the potential to
transfer experience from Turkey to other countries.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
3 Incremental Cost
o Other (specify)
Incremental Costs: The incremental costs of the project are calculated by first estimating baseline
expenditure on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity at the project sites as well as at the
national level, during the life of the project. Then, a GEF Alternative that would make possible activities
and programs which would not be undertaken under the Baseline Scenario is developed. The difference
between the cost of the baseline scenario (US$ 48.92 million) and the cost of the GEF alternative (US$
60.46 million) is estimated at US$ 11.54 million. This represents the incremental cost of achieving global
environmental benefits through establishing new protected areas, strengthening policy and legal frameworks
for protected area management, developing mechanisms for conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity and natural resources in rural landscapes, and strengthening local and national capacity for
conserving globally significant biodiversity. The Government has committed to mobilizing US$ 3.2 million
toward the GEF alternative, covering all recurrent costs and 10% of investment costs. Consequently, the
GEF grant contribution would be US$ 8.2 million.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Total Government financing during the project implementation period is estimated to be US$3.2 million
equivalent, covering all taxes (US$1.4 million), all recurrent costs (US$1.0 million) and 10% of
incremental investment costs (US$0.9 million). Spread over 6 years, the annual fiscal impact of this
contribution is negligible, representing less than 0.001 and 0.2 percent of the estimated 1999 annual
Government (US$54.3 billion) and MoF budgets (US$178.9 million), respectively.
The project seeks to reduce overall pressure on the national budget. By developing the capacity and legal
framework for protected areas to generate and retain revenues through mechanisms such as introducing
- 13 -



visitor fees and raising revenue through taxes and levies on natural resource use, the project will promote
sustainable management of protected areas while reducing reliance on Government funding. Additionally,
tourism and other economic activities supported by the project, will help increase Turkey's tax base due to
increased spending by consumers and foreign visitors.
3. Technical:
The project will address local and national technical needs for effective protected area planning and
management. At the project site level, this will include initial comprehensive surveys of ecosystems, plant
and animal communities, and the population dynamics of selected threatened or indicator species and the
relative dependences on resources by local stakeholders. These assessments will identify protected area
conservation management priorities and guide the design of interventions that may include redirecting
tourism impacts, adjusting agricultural and silvicultural practice and limiting the use of natural resources.
They will also allow for selection of species and parameters that can be systematically measured, in order
to provide periodic feedback on the impact of conservation interventions. In addition to monitoring
biodiversity directly, the project will establish the technical capacity for monitoring and managing water
quality and the impacts of forestry and agricultural practices, including grazing, on the biodiversity of
project sites and adjacent production landscapes. The project will also build an inforrmation technology
system and interagency network to support strategic conservation planning and management at the national
and local level.
4. Institutional:
a Executing agencies:
Within MoF, institutional capacity for project implementation at the field and national level is good.
Similarly, MoE is already involved in environmental regulatory issues and public awareness activities.
However, with respect to biodiversity conservation objectives, the tradition of collaboration between the
two ministries has not been strong. Similarly, there has been insufficient coordination among MoFs general
directorates. Since MoE has no field capacity or mandate for protected area management, MoF will take
lead responsibility for the project, while MoE will assume prime responsibility for activities within its
mandate. The project will build the interagency collaborative mechanisms and technical expertise needed
for successful project implementation.
b. Project management:
Project management will be undertaken by PMT attached to GDNP. PMT will oversee implementation of
project activities at the national and field level. National level activities will be undertaken by existing and
assigned MoF and MoE staff. Competent protected area managers will be appointed by MoF at each of the
four demonstration sites, and additional staff, specializing in ecology/biodiversity, community outreach and
GIS/information technology, will be assigned by MoF prior to project effectiveness.
5. Social:
A social assessment was carried out by consultants and updated by the Bank during project preparation
through consultation with a broad range of stakeholder groups using a number of different information
gathering techniques including formal and semi-formal interviews, group discussions and workshops, rapid
rural appraisal and literature review (see Annex 1 1). The assessment indicates that the stakeholders that
will be most directly affected by the project are in general poor forest villagers with average annual
incomes per household as low as US$700. In forest villages, unemployment rates are generally high,
resulting in increased pressure on natural resources and high levels of out-migration. Important land use
activities include forestry, agriculture, sheep and cattle grazing, reed cutting and tourism.
- 14 -



Key rural development issues that impact on biodiversity conservation include unemployment,
unsustainable use of resources, lack of basic infrastructure and services, and access to markets and credit
to support development of new income generating activities, Poor economic conditions and their
implications on social welfare result in over-exploitation of resources. In some cases, local communities
regard protected areas as a threat to their livelihoods since they perceive that conservation will result in loss
of access to income derived from use of natural resources. Consequently, the project will support economic
development that is linked with the objectives of the project The project will establish mechanisms for
community management of common resources, such as pastures, forest products and reeds; support
sustainable management of agricultural and water resources; provide access to small grants for
conservation linked development; employ local individuals, and engage local NGOs and small commercial
enterprises in protected area management.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
The entire project constitutes an environmental mitigation and management plan. It has been designed and
will be implemented in a participatory manner, in order to have a positive environmental impact, through
establishing effective systerns to conserve the natural integrity and biodiversity of Turkish ecosystems in
protected areas, associated landscapes and production forests. The project will, however, finance some
civil works for visitor centers and other protected areas infrastructure (staff housing, entrance buildings,
lookout points, boundary markers, boardwalks, car parks trails, etc.), and will support local stakeholder
participation in environmentally responsible development (including tourism), which is linked with the
conservation objective of the project. Since these activities could have environmental impacts, the project
is rated category B. Consequently, the siting of infrastructure developments and management interventions
intended to minimize and localize tourism visitation and other human impacts, will be agreed following
baseline ecological surveys. Visitor centers will not be located inside the core protected areas, and their
design, construction and management will be in accordance with World Bank environmental guidelines. A
brief environmental review will be included in the protected area management plans, prior to investments in
infrastructure, and will adhere to the Government of Turkey's environmental regulations regarding siting,
construction, and implementation of the proposed infrastructure.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups include MoF, GDNP GDF, MoE and MoC; local forest,
agricultural and pastoral communities, tourists and other visitors to the parks; the private sector, including
tour operators, forest harvesters, marketing agents for forest products; local cooperatives; local and
national environmental NGOs; hunter associations; local governments and local units of implementing
agencies (See Annex I 1).
Participation in project identification and preparation: Project components are based on the top priorities
identified in the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), which was prepared in a
participatory manner with the involvement of key national institutions concemed with conservation in
Turkey. The project concept document was developed in close collaboration with Government counterparts
and NGOs. Project preparation was undertaken in consultation with major stakeholders at the local and
national levels, including a broad range of NGOs. The project rationale was developed, over a seven day
period in a facilitated workshop setting, by a project preparation team composed of prospective project
managers from MoF, MoE, MoC and the World Bank. All project activities address root causes of
biodiversity loss identified in the project rationale (see Attachment 2 of Annex 2).
- 15 -



Mechanisms for participation in project implementation: Since project success is reliant on the involvement,
ownership and support of local and national stakeholders, the project will establish mechanisms to support
their participation. Participation mechanisms are detailed in Annex 1 1. At the national level, these include
the Project Advisory Committee (PAC), the Biodiversity Legal and Policy Review Committee (BLPRC),
the Biodiversity Integration Committee (BIC), the Biodiversity Awareness Committee (BAC), and various
working groups established by these committees. At the local level, participation mechanisms include the
Protected Area Advisory Councils (ACs), Protected Area Conservation and Promotion Foundations
(PACPFs), and village-based Sustainable Resource Use Committees (SRUCs) for grazing, reed-cutting,
forest product harvesting, etc.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders include academic institutions, related government agencies such as MARA,
Ministry of Reconstruction and Settlements, MoT, Ministry of Education, Parliament, Treasury, State
Planning Organization, as well as international NGOs, donor agencies and the media.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will ensure institutional sustainabilitv through rationalization of'protected area management
responsibilities and capacity building and institutional strengthening at both national and local levels
(Government implementing agencies and NGOs). MoF, which is responsible for management of all national
parks and forest lands in Turkey and has an extensive network of field based staff, will take lead
responsibility for project implementation at the field level. The project will strengthen the existing
collaboration between MoF and other concerned Government agencies, and will build new partnerships
with NGO and stakeholder organizations to improve the efficiency and sustainability of project activities.
The participatory approach used in design and preparation, helped build local buy-in to the project.
Continued involvement of local communities and other key stakeholders during project implementation will
be ensured through a variety of mechanisms that will provide opportunities for stakeholders to participate
in decision making, capacity building, awareness raising, and income generation. These participatory
mechanisms will help foster local ownership of project activities and contribute to the project's social
sustainabilitv.
With regards to financial sustainability: Government demonstrated consistent financial commitment to
implementation of the GEF In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Resources Project and recognizes that an
effective system of protected areas is an essential element of biodiversity conservation. Consequently,
Government has committed to funding all recurrent costs of the project as well as 10% or USO.9 million of
the project's after-tax investment costs. The Government is also committed to expanding the protected area
network during and after completion of the project. The recurrent costs of this expansion will be borne
primarily by MoF. The project will explore mechanisms for generating and retaining revenues at the
project sites for biodiversity conservation and protected area management. This will not only contribute to
the financial sustainability of conservation initiatives at the sites, but will reduce pressure on MoF budget.
- 16 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Proposed changes in sectoral policy,           M         The project will review sectoral policies and
legislation, regulations are not adopted                 legislation in a participatory manner with the
involvement of all concerned agencies in order to
build consensus at the technical level. The
project will also implement a public awareness
program targeting key policy makers
responsible for adoption of recommended
adjustments to the legal framework.
Inadequate capacity to enforce                 M         Development of regulations with the full
conservation management plan                             participation of key local stakeholders,
regulations at project sites.                            establishment of community based resolution of
resource use conflicts, together with targeted
public awareness programs emphasizing the
rationale and benefits of conservation
interventions will limit the need for enforcement.
Benefits of conservation linked income         M         Project support for income generating activities
generating activities do not motivate                    will target resource users engaged in
stakeholders to use resources sustainably.               unsustainable activities and, wherever possible,
the project will establish community based
regulation of resource use.
From Components to Outputs
MoF is not able to attract and retain          M         The project will provide training in new skills
qualified staff at project sites.                        and new career opportunities for MoF staff.
The project will also develop mechanisms for
establishing and managing new protected areas
by other stakeholder groups.
Military Authority limits access to Camili     N         MoF will obtain agreement from the Ministry of
military zone for project activities                     Defense for access to Camili for project
activities.
Overall Risk Rating                            M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversial issues are foreseen regarding implementation of the project. Controversial issues
that are beyond the control of the project, but which may impact project sites and other priority
conservation sites in Turkey, include possible conflict between conservation needs and the self interests of
influential developers intent on construction of private housing and conservation-incompatible
infrastructure in protected areas. The project's review of sectoral policies and legislation, its establishment
- 17 -



of inter-sectoral collaborative mechanisms, and the strategic design and implementation of the national
public awareness program will help to contain such potential controversy by strengthening the legal
framework and emphasizing the national/public benefits of biodiversity conservation.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been established.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Boardpresentation: None
H. Readiness for Implementation
C] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
OI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
M. Cleaver                  AjayC       r
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            rntry Manager/Director
- 18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                  '..v.''..'   k " s
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectord country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To (i) strengthen the policy,  Improved capacity to protect  External country and sector   Protecting biodiversity and
regulatory and management  and manage Turkey's natural  reports                 effectively managing natural
capabilities of MoE, and  resources                                             resources benefits local
establish a database and                             Official gazette (Resmi    stakeholders, builds the
monitoring program; (ii)  Legal/regulatory framework   Gazete)                  economy and alleviates
conduct public awareness    and related sector policies                         poverty
campaigns and promote     strategically reviewed and    Public awareness strategy;
stakeholder participation in  rationalized to incorporate    periodic surveys measured    Economic and political
project preparation,      biodiversity conservation  against baseline           stability and development at
implementation and        concerns                                              national and local level
enforcement; and (iii)
formulate and implement with Increased public awareness of
stakeholders, a natural   the importance of biodiversity
resource conservation strategy conservation
to address legal,
policy/regulatory and public
awareness issues
GEF Operational Program
The Global obiective is   No significant loss of     National biodiversity      The value of biodiversity can
sustainable conservation of the biodiversity in selected forest, inventories    be appreciated by sectors not
biological diversity and  wetland, steppe and alpine                            directly involved in its
ecological integrity of selected ecosystems          Biodiversity monitoring    protection
forest, wetland, steppe and                          system
alpine ecosystems that are
representative of Turkey's four
major biogeographic zones.
These include the Black Sea
and Caucasian mountain
region; the Central Anatolian
plateau; and the European and
Mediterranean regions
- 19 -



H~rnarch   o*~..............s...  ......
Global Objective:             Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
The proiect objective is to   Legal and regulatory          Official gazette (Resmi       Continued Government
establish effective,          framework for biodiversity    Gazete)                       commitment to biodiversity
intersectoral, participatory  conservation established                                    conservation and natural
planning and sustainable                                    Biodiversity information and  resource protection
management of protected       Reduced rate of decline of    monitoring system
areas and natural resources at biodiversity, habitats and plant                           Destruction of biodiversity is
four selected biodiversity    communities at project sites   National biodiversity        not already too high
conservation demonstration                                  inventory
sites, and build capacity at the No increase in adverse                                   Agencies responsible for
national level to facilitate  impacts of resource use       Ministry of Culture reports    biodiversity conservation are
replication of these activities  (grazing, forest products, etc.)                         willing to collaborate
at priority conservation sites   on biodiversity in project sites Ministry of Environment
throughout Turkey                                           survey results of public
Decrease in destruction of    support/interest
natural formations and
cultural sites within project
sites
Decrease in
uncontrolled/unplanned
construction within and
around project sites
No increase in percentage of
area degraded by tourism
impacts at project sites
Increase in public support for
biodiversity conservation, as
measured against baseline
Improvement of social
indicators linked with the use
of natural resources at project
sites
- 20 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
coniponent:
Strengthen National       Overlapping or contradictory  Parliament agenda,      Proposed changes in sectoral
Framework for Biodiversity  laws, regulation and policies  Ministerial orders, etc.  policy, legislation and
Conservation:             for biodiversity conservation  Prioritized list of future PAs  regulations are adopted
1. National legal and     idenbfied and proposals for                           Govenmment allocates
regulatory framework for  rationalization presented to   Monitoring and evaluation    sufficient budgetary resources
biodiversity conservation  sectoral Ministries and   reports                    to support replication of
established               Parliament                 Forest Management Plans for protected area prototypes
2. Effective management and Biodiversity management    three pilot sites
monitoring system established information and monitoring   National level public
for sustainable and       system established         awareness strategy
participatory biodiversity  Prototype effective,     Education strategy and
conservation              decentralized, participatory   curriculum
3. Biodiversity concerns  management systems
3incorporedivito foncest  replicated at priority     Intemet web pages (MoF and
incorporated into forest  conservation sites         MoE)
management planning
4.Stateic,targtednatona NGOs involved in identifying, Baseline and periodic surveys
Strategic, targeted national developing and managing  of public supportlinterest in
public awareness program to
build support for biodiversity  Protected Areas      biodiversity conservation
implemented               Three prototype forest
5. Strengthened institutional  management plans completed
capacity to develop a national which incorporate biodiversity
network of conservation   concers
management and protected   Strategy developed for
areas                     mainstreaming biodiversity
and socio-economic concerns
into Forest Management Plans
Strategy for building public
awareness completed and
implemented
Programs for raising
awareness of biodiversity
issues through formal and
in-service education presented
to the Ministry of National
Education
Mechanisms established for
sharing knowledge and
information on biodiversity
conservation in public domain
-21 -



Establish Prototypes for      PA management plans      PA management plans         Adequate capacity to enforce
Protected Area (PA)           developed and implemented    .                       conservation management
Management:                   Revenues from PA         meetings                    plan regulations at the
1. Systems established for    activities and natural   Protected Area             project sites
sustainable, participatory   resource use retained to   ro          Are orts       Cooperation among relevant
planning and management of    cover a portion of the cost  progress reports        local agencies
biodiversity conservation at four  of conservation     Supervision reports         Benefits of conservation-
PAs  .                        management               Biodiversity monitoring plans  linked income generating
2. Mechanisms established for    All rights to land/resources  Protected Area Conservation   activities motivate
sustainable natural resource  and land ownership within   .Proteted A onsation    stakeholders to use resources
management in and around PAs.  PAs have been clarified  budget reports            sustainably
3. Environmentally responsible   Land use plans for areas  Cadastre
tourism linked with conservation  adjacent to the PAs reflect
management objective developed  biodiversity concerns  Land-use plans
at PAs                        Increased awareness and    Public awareness strategy and
4. Program established to build   local support for    action plan for each site
Public Awareness in and around   biodiversity conservation in
PA                            and around PAs
5. Biodiversity is integrated into
local land use plans
22



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
National Framework for                               Progress reports           Adequate inter-sectoral
Biodiversity Conservation:                             .                        collaboration in support of
1. Legal and regulatory                             Disuren reports            conservation objectives
framework                                            Bank supervision reports
2. Biodiversity conservation                         Quarterly Project Management Ministry able to attract and
planning and management                              Reports (PMRs)             retain qualified staff at project
sites
3. Biodiversity information                          Procurement                Stakeholders willing to work
and monitoring system                                documents/contracts        with the Goverment
4. Forest management                                                            Military allows access to
Forest management                                                               military zone (in Camili) for
planning                                                                        project activities
5. National public awareness
program
Prototypes for Protected Area
Management:
1. PA management
2. Sustainable natural
resource management
3. Environmentally
responsible tourism
4. Local public awareness
program
5. Integrate biodiversity into
local land use plans
- 23 -



Annex 2: Project Description
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Background:
Turkey has 75% of the 12,000 plant species that occur in Europe. One third of this flora occurs only in
Turkey. Turkish flora includes many wild relatives of important domestic species (e.g., wheat, barley, chic
pea, lentil, cherry, pear, apricot, chestnut, pistachio, etc.). In addition to agricultural species, the Turkish
flora also includes many commercially important timber species, and medicinal, aromatic, industrial and
ornamental plants. Since domestication of plants first took place in the region, there are a wide variety of
land races of domestic species, whose genetic resources could be of immeasurable economic value. In
addition, one of the three major flyways for millions of migratory birds, which move between the Western
Palearctic and Africa each year, passes through Turkey. Since the country is predominantly semi-arid,
Turkish wetlands are of crucial importance for many of these migrants, and also for many breeding species
of water birds, including a significant proportion of the global populations of some species.
Turkish authorities are becoming increasingly aware of both the importance of indigenous biodiversity and
the significant threats to its sustainable management, which include a variety of unsustainable land and
natural resource practices that are impacting all Turkish ecosystems. In response, a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) has been prepared with the involvement of the Government,
Municipalities, the private sector, and the NGO community. As part of this exercise, and with the support
of GEF, a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), which identifies the nation's priority
conservation issues, has been prepared. In addition, with the assistance of the World Bank, the Ministry
Forestry (MoF) has recently undertaken a review of the Turkish forestry sector (approximately one quarter
of the country's land area) and has developed recommendations to bring about sustainable management of
all forest products and services, specifically including biodiversity.
This project will address urgent priority actions identified in BSAP and the Forestry Sector Review through
establishing effective, decentralized and sustainable protected area and natural resource management at
four of the country's most important biodiversity sites, and will build the capacity to identify and replicate
this experience at priority sites throughout the country.
The four project sites were chosen by the National Biodiversity Steering Committee which was formed in
1995 to oversee preparation of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), and is
composed of representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), Culture
(MoC), Environment (MoE), and Forestry (MoF); the State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the Agency for
Specially Protected Areas (ASPA), and an NGO, the Society for Protection of Nature in Turkey (DHKD).
Sites were selected because of their international significance, and their representation of each of the
country's four major biogeographic zones.
The sites also include examples of the different conservation challenges that are common to many priority
biodiversity sites throughout Turkey. These include the impacts of existing or encroaching mass tourism,
unsustainable use of common resources, and inadequate coordination for biodiversity conservation with
sectoral and local land use planning. The biodiversity and demonstration value envisaged for each of the
four sites is as follows:
(a) Caucasian mixed temperate rain forest and high alpine meadows of Camili Forest District,
Artvin Province, North East Black Sea mountains (27,000 ha., altitude 400-3,500m). The Camili
- 24 -



Forest District protected area is a forested highland river basin. Poor access to facilities has led to
natural out-migration and gradual depopulation that, to date, has prevented degradation of the area by
uncontrolled tourism development and resource use. However, in the absence of conservation planning
and management, these common causes of degradation are likely to impact the area. Camili provides a
rare opportunity to establish conservation imperatives and participatory management mechanisms of an
important area before significant biodiversity loss has occurred. It is likely that eco-tourism based on
experiencing the areas existing character and features, will provide the strongest link between
conservation and economic benefits for local stakeholders, whether or not they remain resident in the
Camili basin.
(b) Wetland and steppe ecosystems of Sultan Sazligi-Erciyes protected area, Kayseri, Central
Anatolian Plateau (18,000 ha., altitude 1,000-3,000m). The Sultan Sazligi-Ercives protected area is an
important wetland impacted by disruption of the hydrological regime and water pollution from industry
and agriculture. Responsibility for conservation of the site falls under the overlapping mandates of
several different ministries. Sultan Sazligi provides an excellent opportunity to demonstrate how
agricultural practice, the activities of the State Hydraulic Works (DSI), and enforcement of
environmental regulations by MoE, can be coordinated to conserve wetland biodiversity in Turkey.
(c) Mediterranean forest and high alpine ecosystems of the Taurus mountains in Koprulu Kanyon
National Park, Taurus Mountains, Southern Turkey (approximately 40,000 ha., altitude 400-2,500m).
The Koprulu Kanyon is a National Park that has primarily been used by a large number of visitors as
a source of recreational facilities (river rafting, scenic picnic areas and cultural sites). Poorly regulated
tourism related developments have proceeded in the absence of a conservation management plan. In
addition, grazing by poor local residents and semi-nomadic pastoralists is resulting in further
degradation of natural resources. The site provides an opportunity to demonstrate how the
environmental impacts of mass tourism can be mitigated and managed while providing revenues for
conservation and benefits for poor local stakeholders that are linked with conservation.
(d) Alluvial forest with associated aquatic and coastal ecosystems at Igneada, Kirklareli, protected
and wildlife management areas of the Thracean Black Sea coast, (2,500 ha.). The Alluvial forests are
scarce throughout their former range because the value of the timber species growing in them, and the
fertility of the agricultural land that is produced by clearing them, are high. The proximity of this
aquatic (freshwater) forest to littoral (sand dune) and marine ecosystems provides an opportunity for
ecological interpretation and facilities for formal and informal education and public awareness about
the value of this rare, remnant ecosystem complex.
A summary description of the four sites together with the threats to their biodiversity is in attachment 1. A
summary of the rationale for project design is in attachment 2.
The project will include the following three major components:
One: Strengthening the national framework for biodiversity conservation;
Two: Developing prototypes for effective protected area management;
Three: Project management and monitoring.
Detailed description of these components follows below.
- 25 -



By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.29 million
Strengthening the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation will be achieved through: (a)
participatory review and development of a strategy for rationalization of the legal framework for
biodiversity conservation, including overlapping sectoral legislation and policy, and other legislation
impacting biodiversity; (b) strengthening the institutional capacity to develop a national network of
protected areas by catalyzing replication of effective participatory protected area management systems at
Turkey's priority biodiversity sites
This will include assessing and developing sustainable financing mechanisms to support conservation
initiatives; (c) establishing a system to monitor the status of biodiversity and conservation initiatives
throughout the country; (d) development and implementation of a prioritized national strategy and targeted
action plan for raising the awareness of key stakeholders and the general public about the importance of,
and opportunities for, biodiversity conservation in Turkey, and (e) demonstrating how biodiversity
conservation can be mainstreamed in the forest management planning process at three of the four project
sites.
A. Preparing a strategy for rationalization of the legal framework for biodiversity conservation, will be
led by MoE which will establish and chair a Biodiversity Legal and Policy Review Committee (BLPRC).
Preparation of the strategy will entail the following steps:
(a) review of all existing sectoral policies and legislation that have implications for biodiversity
conservation, in order to identify: (i) overlaps in sectoral legislation and policy, and (ii) legislation or
policy that impacts negatively on biodiversity;
(b) development of a detailed implementation plan to rationalize and improve the legal framework; and
(c) preparation of proposed amendments to sectoral policy, legislation and regulations.
All steps will be undertaken through a phased and publicized participatory process entailing workshops,
review of draft working papers by BLPRC and key stakeholders, press releases, and distribution of
recommendations to the relevant ministries.
B. Strengthening the institutional capacity to develop a national network of protected areas will focus
on providing strategic guidance to and developing the skills of a core team of professional staff of the
Protected Area Replication Unit (PARU) within MoF's General Directorate of National Parks (GDNP).
Staff from MoF's General Directorate of Forests (GDF), MoE's General Directorate for Environmental
Protection (GDEP) and MoC will also participate in PARU, whose primary function will be to catalyze
replication of effective participatory protected area management systems at Turkey's priority biodiversity
sites.
Participatory institutional needs assessment, development and implementation of training programs and
work plans will be undertaken soon after project effectiveness. The institutional review will also undertake
a financial needs assessment and will review options available for establishing sustainable financing
mechanisms to support conservation initiatives, including protected area management. Staff training will
include participation in project site field work (at least 2 weeks each year for each PARU staff member at
each of the project's four pilot sites), experience exchange with protected area managers in other countries,
short study tours and in-service training provided by national and intemational experts and national
- 26 -



institutions. In addition, the project will equip PARU with vehicles, office equipment, information
technology and relevant GIS/information technology and training.
Review of the existing system. classification and coverage of protected areas will be undertaken with the
assistance of GIS/information technology services provided, under the project, by GDF. This will lead to
development of a strategically prioritized list of target sites and an action plan for replication of effective
protected area management systems throughout Turkey. The project will develop tools for replication,
which will include guidelines and a reference manual of techniques and resources (knowledge, human and
financial) to assist in participatory establishment of effective protected areas, together with a knowledge
sharing network, including a web page with links to relevant international databases and the national and
local public awareness programs.
Catalyzing establishment of protected areas at priority sites will commence in the second year of project
implementation and will entail rapid field assessments to identify key issues and consult with major
stakeholders, followed by supervision of NGO or other relevant agency participation in baseline
assessments (e.g., biodiversity, social, and institutional assessments, to be undertaken by organizations or
individuals contracted in accordance with World Bank procurement procedures), establishment of
management objectives, and participatory preparation and implementation of conservation and sustainable
resource use management plans. An integral feature of the strategy for establishing conservation
management at new priority sites will include provision of training for key stakeholders including local
community representatives, administrators, farmers and the private sector.
C. Establishing a system to monitor the status of biodiversity and the effectiveness of conservation
initiatives throughout the country (particularly protected area management) will be undertaken by a
Biodiversity Monitoring Unit (BMU) within GDF in close collaboration with GDNP and MoE.
At the national level, the project will provide equipment, training and specialist services needed to develop
and implement a strategic plan to: (a) identify the location of conservation priorities throughout the country
(gap analysis), (b) design a GIS based database to provide infonnation to support biodiversity conservation
initiatives and public awareness programs, and (c) develop an information management system to monitor
the expansion and management of an effective protected area network and its coverage of national
conservation priorities.
Information technology/GIS support for protected area management: BMU will prepare and provide maps
of the four project sites for use by protected area managers. The project will provide local protected area
managers with training and equipment to facilitate update of site maps with layers of additional information
derived from baseline surveys and periodic monitoring. Site maps will be developed with the use of new
aerial photography, which will be updated after a three year period. BMU will assist protected area
managers with data analysis and design of site level biodiversity databases and monitoring systems.
D. Preparing and implementing a national public awareness program to build support for biodiversity
conservation will be undertaken by MoE, in collaboration with MoF, with the assistance of market survey
and promotional skills derived from the commercial advertising industry. It will entail preparation and
implementation of a national strategy and targeted action plan for delivering specific information to key
stakeholders and the general public, about the importance of, and opportunities for biodiversity
conservation in Turkey. The national public awareness program will be networked and developed in
coordination with protected area level public awareness initiatives.
- 27 -



Preparation of the national public awareness program will entail establishment of a Biodiversity Awareness
Conmmittee to: (a) review: (i) the status, trends and historical context of Turkish ecosystems and their
management (specifically including the protected area network); together with their ecological, economic
and cultural significance; (ii) the existing and potential impacts and influence of key stakeholder groups on
Turkish natural resource management and biodiversity. Stakeholder groups will include: urban and rural
residents, local and national Government (including key policy makers), private sector interests, NGOs and
advocacy groups, media, the academic community, the general public, and the intemational conservation
and donor communities; and (b) identify and prioritize: (i) key constraints to conservation and sustainable
management of biodiversity resources caused by lack of awareness on the part of identified stakeholder
groups; (ii) the information needs for each identified group; and (iii) cost effective delivery mechanisms to
address these information needs.
Implementation of the national public awareness program will be undertaken through a variety of delivery
mechanisms including mass media, formal and informal education, networking, and the development of
linkages with related conservation initiatives in Turkey and elsewhere through establishment and
maintenance of an interactive WEB page. In addition, the public awareness strategy will identify
financially sustainable options, such as private sector development of publications, eco-tourism, and the
use of eco- labeling in marketing products that are linked to conservation needs and opportunities.
Strategic NGO participation in implementing the public awareness strategy will encourage following: (a)
an assessment of the mandates, effectiveness and capacity of NGOs involved in conservation, and (b)
identification of priority areas for strategic focus and capacity building. The project would, subsequently,
support preparation, by an NGO forum, of a strategic action plan, guidelines and training for capacity
building, to assist the NGO community to develop specific public awareness raising skills and targeted
work plans, to most effectively support the national conservation initiative. Criteria and mechanisms for
selection of NGOs participating in this activity will be subject to prior review and approval of Government
and the World Bank.
Protected area public awareness programs will be developed and implemented by each PAMA but will
provide input to, and derive support from, the national public awareness program.
E. Demonstrating how biodiversity issues can be incorporated in the forest management planning
process, will be undertaken under the supervision of an MoF Biodiversity Integration Committee composed
of all MoF general directorates, the MoF planning office, MoE, and the Chamber of Forest Engineers. The
committee will develop ToRs and supervise a consultant team, which will review forest management
planning regulations and prepare a draft proposal outlining the steps to be taken to integrate biodiversity
conservation into forest management planning, both: (a) on a national level, and (b) at selected
demonstration sites. The findings and recommendations of the study will be subject to participatory review
by a broad range of forestry sector stakeholders, leading to development of prioritized, phased strategy for
incorporating biodiversity in forest management plans nationally. Selection of priorities will be based on
analysis derived from of the biodiversity "gap analysis" review and monitoring system established within
GDF.
Pilot multi-functional forest planning management teams will be established and trained with the specific
objective of mainstreaming biodiversity conservation in forest management planning. The teams will
include expertise in forest biodiversity, forest ecology, socio-economics, forestry and silviculture. Training
will include exposure to multi-functional forest planning and Forest Stuardship Council (FSC) certified
forest management in other countries, together with in-service training in Turkey. The teams will update
forest management plans, incorporating biodiversity and social concerns, at project sites and will develop
- 28 -



and disseminate guidelines for biodiversity friendly multi-functional forest management planning to other
planning teams and forest district chiefs.
Project Component 2 - US$7.69 million
Developing Prototypes for Effective Protected Area Management will establish innovative systems for
conservation management at the project's four pilot sites. This component will focus on building skills of
PAMA staff, within MoF, developing protected area management planning systems, and providing
equipment and facilities, including visitor interpretation, educational and/or community centers. Baseline
ecological and socio-economic surveys will be undertaken and a biodiversity monitoring system will be
established to provide periodic feedback on the status of ecosystems and their biodiversity, particularly in
relation to existing and anticipated threats such as tourism impacts, grazing and the use of forest or wetland
resources. The project will build local support for biodiversity conservation through a public awareness
and education program targeted at key stakeholder groups. In particular, the project will facilitate
establishment of social systems to support conservation-linked development and mechanisms to reduce
unsustainable use of shared resources, such as forest and wetland products and grazing. It will also
support environmentally responsible tourism that focuses on establishing linkages between conservation
and benefits for local stakeholders. Additionally, it will establish collaborative mechanisms to ensure
biodiversity conservation is incorporated in local sectoral and land use plans.
A.    Establish Systems for Participatory Planning and Management of Four Protected Areas
(i) Establishing Protected Area Management Authorities (PAMAs) will follow institutional and
training needs assessment and will entail building PAMA staff skills, and providing field equipment
and constructing facilities, including visitor interpretation, educational and/or community centers.
Training will include study tours, in service training and exchange programs, and will focus on
developing core skills including protected area planning and management, ecological and
socio-economic survey and monitoring, participatory techniques and small scale business development.
(ii) Participatory preparation of protected area management plans will be undertaken in
consultation with concemed stakeholders following baseline ecological and socio-economic surveys to
identify the distribution of biodiversity rich or sensitive areas, together with options to mitigate threats.
Protected area management plans will be continually updated as targets are reached and in accordance
with developing management needs and conservation priorities of the site. The project will provide
GIS/Information technology to assist in developing, updating and monitoring protected area
management plans. In close collaboration with BMU, PAMAs will build GIS databases of biodiversity
and information relevant for conservation management needs of the site, and will update site maps aF
new information becomes available.
(iii) Biodiversity and project impact monitoring systems will be developed by PAMAs to assess the
effectiveness of project implementation and impact. Biodiversity monitoring will focus on
measurement of selected ecological or species indicators to provide periodic cost-effective feedback on
the status of ecosystems and their biodiversity, particularly in relation to existing and anticipated
threats such as tourism impacts, grazing and the use of forest or wetland resources, and the impacts of
management interventions, including public awareness. In addition, the project will directly monitor
stakeholder activities and critical social indicators in order to (a) monitor natural resource use within
the project area; (b) measure its impact on biodiversity, the natural ecosystem and livelihoods; and (c)
better understand the links between poverty, natural resource use and other potential project outcomes
such as increased sharing of revenues from the tourism industry.
- 29 -



B.    Establish Mechanisms for Sustainable Natural Resource Management
(i) Sustainable natural resource management: With the assistance of international and national
expertise, PAMAs will develop and apply the new skills needed to: (a) facilitate establishment of social
mechanisms to reduce unsustainable use of shared resources, such as forest and wetland products and
grazing, and (b) foster establishment of conservation-linked development based on sustainable resource
use and tourism. This will entail participatory assessment of existing resource use and the relative
economic dependencies of stakeholder groups, review of resource management and market potential,
followed by participatory development and operation of stakeholder managed systems for sustainable
management of shared resources. Establishment of sustainable shared resource management systems
will be supported through provision of training and guidance in business development and marketing,
and establishing micro-financing mechanisms for sustainable resource use, including small grants
programs and community funds. Institutional arrangements and procedures, eligibility criteria and
systems for establishing, supervising and monitoring small grants programs and community funds will
be developed in close consultation with stakeholders by the second year of project implementation.
(ii) Environmentally responsible tourism, which establishes clear linkages between conservation and
benefits for local stakeholders will be supported under the project. Target activities will include
provision of village accommodation for visitors, training local guides, establishment of tourism oriented
cottage industries and marketing, and capacity building in existing local tourism cooperatives or
enterprises. This will be achieved following assessment of tourism and market potentials, through
establishing community tourism associations, provision of training and strategic planning for tourism
development and marketing, design and preparation of promotional materials, internet marketing, and
establishing financing mechanisms (including small grants programs and community funds) to assist
new entrepreneurs in overcoming incremental investment costs.
(iii) Integrating biodiversity conservation into local land use plans will be facilitated through
involvement of key sectoral ministries (e.g., MARA, Ministry of Tourism, MoC, Ministry of
Construction and Settlements) and local stakeholders (e.g. farmers associations, tour operators, local
industry, etc.) in protected area working groups, which will meet periodically to review protected area
plans and identify mechanisms to resolve issues of mutual concem. In addition, selected PAMAs will
conduct specific sectoral studies and establish action programs aimed at mainstreaming biodiversity
concems beyond protected area boundaries. These include: (a) Update of forest management plans to
incorporate biodiversity and social issues at project sites that occur in forest lands); (b) assessment of
the environmental implications of existing agricultural practices at sites where their impact on
conservation management is likely to be significant, and development and implementation of an
extension program aimed at mitigating impacts on biodiversity; (c) development of a model biodiversity
friendly management plan for cultural heritage sites for one of the project sites; (d) development of
environmentally responsible tourism plans by three PAMAs with the participation of local government
agencies and tour operators, and (e) monitoring and regulation of industrial pollution and the impacts
of water management on biodiversity in the project's wetland protected area by MoE.
C.    Establish Public Awareness Programs for Parks will be undertaken by PAMIAs through
awareness raising and education programs targeted at key local stakeholder groups. Protected area
publicity campaigns will be integrated with the national public awareness program. While visitor centers
will provide interpretation of ecosystem functions and other important features of the sites to visitors,
public awareness programs will be designed to enhance the impact of this experience and carry
understanding of key ecological and conservation issues to a wider audience. Protected area public
- 30 -



awareness programs will target local schools, communities and other stakeholder groups that are of
particular significance to each conservation area. Activities will include provision of regular press and
media releases and newsletters, annual meetings of concemed NGOs and other groups, development of
educational packages for primary schools, park volunteer programs, intemships, award programs targeting
local communities.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.56 million
Project Management and Monitoring at the national level will be undertaken by the Project Management
Team (PMT). The project will provide equipment and training, and cover incremental expenses associated
with project management at the national level. PMT will oversee and support implementation of all project
activities in accordance with agreed monitorable indicators. It will work closely with PAMA staff at the
four sites and with the agencies responsible for implementing project activities at the national level, and will
develop and monitor work plans for all project activities on a biannual basis.
- 31 -



Attachment 1
Protected Area Demonstration Site Descriptions
Name       Area           Biological Features          Local Economy        Threats           Project
Opportunities
Camili   Artvin Province,  Caucasian mixed temperate  Population in six     District currently   Opportunity to
Forest   North East Black  rain forest and high alpine    villages is       has no protection  introduce sustainable
District  Sea mountains    meadows.                    approximately 1300.   status.          forest resource
(adjacent to     Some of the region's last   Currently based on   Biodiversity and   management, toursm
pristine and natural mixed  traditional sustainable  ecological integrity devel
27,000 ha.       forest, dominated by oriental   subsistence agriculture, of this important  development plans
Altitude         beech (Fagus orientalis),   and the production of  site is imminently  before ifreversible
400-3A500m       oriental spruce (Picea      honey (from lime and  threatened by    damage from logging
400-3,500m  orientalis), Caucasian lime (   chestnut blossom) and  current plans to:   inappropnate
Tilia rubra), Crimean fir (  livestock products for  harvest timber,   fonms of tourism
Abies nordmanniana), Alder ( barter and sale.     construct roads    occurs.
Alnus glutinosa), chestnut (    Due to its remote  and fish farms, and Little exploitation of
Castanea sativa), walnut (  location and proximity encourage tourism. forest resources has
Juglans regia), hombeam (       ecintanal                          occurred due to the
Carpinus betulus), and oak (   border, Camili is the               area's proximity to
Quercuspontica and petraea). only forest district in               the fonmer Soviet
The understory of this unique  the North Eastern                   Union and resulting
forest system is predominantly  Black Sea Mountains                designataon as a
rhododendron        (       that has not yet been                  military exclusion
Rhododendron caucasicum,    logged or developed for                zone.
ponticum, ungernii, smirnowii tourism.
and luteum)
Sultan    Kayseri, Central  Wetland and steppe         Major sources of     Diversion of rivers Opportunity to build
Sazligi-E Anatolian Plateau ecosystems.                income for the six   feeding the       on and strengthen
rciyes    1 0                                          villages and two towns wetlands for    constructive relations
protected   ,             also falls under several     (approximate         irrigation, and   established between
area     Altitude         overlapping categories of    population 9,500) that discharge of    the State Hydraulic
1,000-3,000m    potection satueorits    surround the wetlands, irrigation drainage Works (DSI) and the
diversiyo  e        o  syste s, which  include agriculture,    water into the  conservation
diversity ofecsteppe,  whichwar livestock production   wetlands, have  community and to
include salt steppe, freshwater  and reed harvesting    interfered with the demonstrate
meadows, and saline and     (150 tones per annum). hydrological cycle  collaborative
freshwater lakes and p)ools.                     and caused loss of mechanisms that
Of the 365 taxa of flora                         some natural      support conservation
present, approximately 25                        habitat.          management of
species are endemic.                                               Turkey's wetlands,
As many as 50,000 greater                                          involving all key
flamingoes and a wide variety                                      Goverment agencies
of other migratory water bird                                      working with NGOs
species rely on the food                                           and local community
resources, provided by the                                         resource users.
area's wetland ecosystems,
during autumn and spring
migrations.
- 32 -



Koprulu  Taurus            Mediterranean forest and      The park and environs Inappropriate      In addition to
Kanyon  Mountains,          high alpine ecosystems.      include 18 villages    tourism           conserving
National Southern Turkey  Probably the largest remaining  (approximate         developments.      biodiversity of
Park             .           . .               .         population 25,000).                      intemational
Approximately    pristine cyprus forest in the                       Increased visitor   significance, this site
40,000 ha.       world (approximately 300 ha of Rural populations    impact.        - - provdesan
Altitude         Cupressus sempervirens), 350  living above the tree    Unsustainable use  opportunity to
400-2,500m       plant species (including 43   line, currently employ  of nataral       demonstrate how
endemics), and most elements  traditional agricultural resources,     multi-use planning
of the Mediterranean Maquis  systems to cultivate    including: tree  could be applied to a
community (e.g., Arbutus     locally adapted        cuding, gree        cal exisfiog
andrachnea, Olea europea,    landraces of wheat and cutting, grazing of typical existing
Cistus spp., Laurus nobilis,    barley, and also derive  forest areas by  Turkish protected
Pistacea lentiscus and       income from            uncontrolled      management focus is
terbinthus, Myrtus communis,  harvesting pine resin,  hunting.        the provision of
Quercus spp. and infectoria,   livestock production                   recreationa ofa
Styrax officinalis, etc.).   and tourism.                             recreational faclleties
for urban dwellers to
Cultural Features - The site                                          the detriment of
has features of significant                                           conservation
international cultural heritage                                       objectives.
including the ruins of the
ancient (400 BC) city of Selge,
and a spectacular
Greco-Roman theater. Several
Roman single arch bridges,
from which the National Park
derives its name, span the
narrow central gorge.
- 33 -



Igneada  Kirklareli,     Alluvial forest with associated Seasonally grazing of  Three different    Conservation of
protected and   aquatic and coastal         cattle by a small    categories of    unique Turkish
wildlife        ecosystems.                 number of subsistence  protection status   alluvial forest will be
management areas Dominated by  h (Frainus   families in floodplains apply to separate  undertaken through
of the Thracean   Dominated byash (axinus   area, which is       portions of the    implementation of
Black Sea coast  beam   (Carpinus spp.) and    surrounded by    forest, and yet the  resource management
2,500 ha.       oak (Quercus spp.)   a      production beech forest natural integrity of plans which promote
2,00ha  ok  ur p.).  that is managed by the the site is  sustainable use of
Largely pristine forest, includes local forest authority  threatened by:    forest resources,
approximately 200 ha of    for timber production. inappropriate  including game and
pristine pure stands of ash  Residents are      forest management wildlife, grazing,
forest (Fraxinus excelsior).    beginning to recognize practiceris, habitat  non-wood and other
Includes several permanent    opportunities for the   conversion for land products, and tounsm
mesotrophic wetlands, and is  development of beach  development,    regulation.
mesotrophic wetlands and is  development ofbeanuncontrolled
separated from the marine  tourism,             hunting, and
environment of the Black Sea                    growth of tourism,
by a narrow border of sand                      particularly in the
dune ecosystems.                                coastal zone.
Important winter sanctuary for
migratory water birds, and a
bottleneck for many bird
species (including tens of
thousands of raptors) that move
along the Bosphorus flyway
between the Westem Palearctic
and Africa.
- 34 -



Attachment
P oject Rationale*
Symptoms for Concern           Underlying Reasons and Causes    Desired Changes in the Status of Desired
Biodiversity Conservation     Intervention
Weak legal regulatory and      Lack of political commitment to    Legislation, regulations and  Strengthen the
institutional framework for    biodiversity conservation        policies reviewed and revised;   National
biodiversity conservation                                       effective management of        Framework for
biodiversity conservation;    Biodiversity
public support                Conservation
1. Laws and regulations do not    1. The importance of biodiversity has 1. Overlapping or contradictory   Strengthen legal and
adequately address or adversely   not been adequately addressed in    laws, regulations and policies for regulatory
impact biodiversity concerns  legislation                       biodiversity conservation have    framework and
2. Contradicting laws regarding   2. Overlapping institutional mandates been identified and rationalized   sectoral policies for
biodiversity                  for biodiversity conservation     2. Ministries responsible for  biodiversity
3. Legislation does not conform to 3. Lack of pressure (public, NGO) to  forests, environment and culture
intemational conventions to which influence Parliament to incorporate  are cooperating to ensure that all
Turkey is signatory            biodiversity concems in law      constion cones
conservation concems
4. Lack of effective sanctions.
5. Sectoral policy does not
recognize the value of biodiversity
and natural resource management
1. Many designated Protected   1. No prioritized strategy for   1. A prioritized strategy and  1. Establish
Areas (PAs) but few effectively   selection and designation of priority  action plan for establishing a  mechanisms for
managed for biodiversity       sites for PA management          National system of effective PAs  sustainable and
conservation                                                    exists and is supported by relevant participatory
2. Key stakeholders are not involved  national stakeholders     biodiversity
2. Developments and activities in  in identification and selection of PAs                      conservation
PAs is inconsistent with       3 Lack of necessar capacity to   2. Adequate capacity for effective  lanning and
biodiversity conservation                                       management and conservation of p
objectives (e.g., construction and   onservation and to replicate best    biodiversity at the national level  management
tourism in core areas)             .thougho    te                  Nwot e                      2. Establish an
practice throughout the country  3. New protected area          information system
3. Inadequate resource allocation          .                 .  management approaches are      to    ort planning,
for biodiversity conservation  4. No mechanisms to ensure financial financially sustainable    tosuppotpamg
sustainability of biodiversity                                  implementation and
4. Lack of enforcement of      conservation initiatives         4. A Management Information    monitoring of
biodiversity laws and regulations  5. T     m                    System provides infonnation   replication and PA
. .   .             ~~~~~~. Traditional management objectives leading to effective biodiversity   management
5. Biodiversity concems are not  of PAs are focused on provision of   leading to ef tive i ersn
incorporated into forest       recreation facilities for visitors, rather use                  3. Establish
management planning            than biodiversity conservation   use                            mechanism to
6. Lack of capacity of agencies to    5. A strategy exists for  incorporate
6.  Lack of capacity ofgulagencs  introducing biodiversity and  biodiversity concems
socio-economic concems into    into forest
7. Forest management planning    development of forest          management plans
focuses primarily on wood production management plans
- 35 -



1. The public is not aware of the value or 1. The-public actively provides Develop and
1. Public engages in behavior    the current danger to Turkey's rich    strong support for biodiversity  implement a
that is detrimental to biodiversity biodiversity, natural habitats and  conservation                   strategic, targeted
conservation and cultural values  cultural heritage                     2. The public opposes          national public
2. Courses and material on biodiversity  investments that adversely   awareness program
2. Weak political support for    conservation not included in education   impact the environment and   to build support for
biodiversity concerns /curricula                                         biodiversity                  biodiversity'
conservafion                                                                                           conservafion
3. Lack of effective public      3. Biodiversity conservation is not taken 3. Increased media coverage of
opposi3ion to envirovnentally    into consideration in 5-year national  environmental and biodiversity
degrading investments.           development plans                      issues
4. Lack of educational materials  4. Profit motive in private media     4. Strategy and action plan for
and media support for            5. Protection agencies lack capacity (i.e., raising awareness of
biodiversity issues in formal
biodiversity conservation        staff, equipment, training, resources) to  andinervice education
J   2    r  *r - ^   *   *   ~and in-service education
undertake or facilitate education and
public awareness activities             5. Network/system for
building/sharing knowledge
base
6. NGOs more constructively
and effectively support
biodiversity conservation
- 36 -



Accelerating destruction of    Unsustainable recourse use             Effective prototypes for     Develop Prototypes
Turkey's rich biodiversity                                            biodiversity conservation    for PA Management
ready for replication
throughout Turkey
1. Decreasing diversity and    1. Limited capacity to manage PAs,     1. PA prototypes             1. Establish systems
abundance of indigenous flora   including planning, field            demonstrating effective       for sustainable
and fauna, including steppe,   implementation, monitoring and        participatory planning,       participatory
forest, wetland and alpine     enforcement of regulations             management and monitoring   planning and
species; game animals; and land  2. Lack of clarity over land/resource-use 2. Sustainable use of natural  management of four
races                          and/or ownership rights               resources in and around the    PAs
2. Loss and/or destruction of  3. Uncontrolled access to PAs         PAs                           2. Establish
natural ecosystems, e.g.,      4. Unsustainable natural resource use:   3. Land use plans for areas    mechanisms for
conversion for agriculture, soil   e.g., over-grazing, hunting, harvesting   adjacent to the PAs reflect    sustainable natural
erosion, invasive species, habitat of medicinal and ornamental plants, reed biodiversity concerns  resource
fragmentation, biological pests,  burning, drainage and wild tree grafting 4. Tourism in and around the  management in and
illicit tree cutting and reed bed    5. Lack of awareness of financially  PAs is consistent with the  around PAs
cutting                        viable, sustainable agricultural practices objectives of biodiversity  3. Develop and
3. Pollution of wetlands and soils 6. Planning and management of PAs is  conservation              implement strategy
from industry and agriculture,   not participatory or decentralized   5. Prototype forest plans exist  for environmentally
salinization and disruption of    7. Biodiversity and environmental issues that demonstrate how to  responsible tourism
hydrological processes         not incorporated in land-use planning   incorporate biodiversity    at PAs linked with
4. Destruction of cultural sites    8. Forest management plans are not  concerns during the planning  PA conservation
and unique natural formations in multi-functional and do not incorporate  process                  management
PAs                            biodiversity issues                    6. Increase in               objective
5. Uncontrolled construction in   9. EIA regulations may not adequately  income-generating activities in 4. Develop
and around PAs that threatens    reflect biodiversity concems         protected areas that support   awareness and
biodiversity                    10. Poverty leading to unsustainable use biodiversity conservation  support for
6. Local opposition to         of natural resources                   7. Clarification of rights to    biodiversity
biodiversity conservation projects                                    land/resources and land      conservation at PAs
in PAs                                                                ownership within PAs
* Project Rationale prepared by Messrs/Mesdames:
Ekrem Yazici (Division Director, MoF), Hasan Ozer (Division Director, MoF), Fatma Gungor (Forest Engineer, GDF), Ramazan Dikyar
(Forest Engineer, GDNPGW), Cemil Un (Director of Maps and Photogrametry Unit, GDF), Suade Arancli (Gender Specialist, MoF),
Yasemin Korkmaz (National Park Engineer, GDNPGW),
Timur Erdem (National Park Engineer, GDNPGW), M. Adnan Inanoglu (Forest District Director, GDF),Fuat Aktas (Forest District
Director, OGM), Suat Tureyen (Division Director, GDF), Osman Erdem (Division Director, MoE), Hulya Ozbek (Agricultural Engineer,
MoE), Hanife Kutlu (Enviromnental Specialist, MoE), Y. Erdal Kayapinar (Urban Planner, MoE), Ipek Eren (Urban Planner, MoC),
Aysel Esengil (Landscape Architect, MoC), John W. Fraser Stewart (Team Leader/Biodiversity Specialist, WB), Yasemin E.K. Biro
(Environmental and Natural Resource Economist, WB), Charis Wuerffel (Project Analyst, WB), Cuneyt Okan (Project Officer, WB),
Gordon Temple (Facilitator)
Project Rationale Workshop
Nevsehir, Turkey
July 23 - 30, 1999
MoF - Ministry of Forestry
GDF - General Directorate of Forestry
GDNPGW - General Directorate for National Parks Game and Wildlife
MoE - Ministry of Environment
MoC - Ministry of Culture
WB - World Bank
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
.,,~~~ ,o    ,,,                        ,       , ., $,iI.,   , S .mIo    U
Component 1: Strengthen the National Framework for                                    0.00
Biodiversity Conservation
a. Preparing a strategy for rationalizing the legal framework for  0.14  0.09         0.23
biodiversity conservation
b. Strengthening the institutional capacity to develop a national  0.58  0.40         0.98
network of protected areas
c. Establishing a system to monitor the status of biodiversity  0.30     0.23         0.53
d. Demonstrating how biodiversity issues can be incorporated  0.16       0.17         0.33
in forest management planning
e. Preparing and implementing a National Public Awareness  0.55          0.36         0.91
Program to build support for biodiversity conservation
Component 2: Develop Prototypes for effective PA Management                           0.00
a. Establishing systems for sustainable participatory planning  3.10     1.24         4.34
and management of four PAs
b. Establishing mechanisms for sustainable natural resource  1.42       0.21          1.63
management
c. Establishing public awareness programs for parks        0.86          0.07         0.93
Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring             0.32          0.19         0.51
Total Baseline Cost                                        7.43         2.96         10.39
Physical Contingencies                                    0.37         0.12          0.49
Price Contingencies                                       0.52         0.14          0.66
Total Project Costs              8.32          3.22         11.54
Total Financing Required               8.32          3.22         11.54
Land                                                         0.02          0.00          0.02
Works                                                        1.51          0.17          1.68
Goods                                                        1.70          1.04          2.74
Studies, training and consulting services                    3.01          2.01          5.02
Subgrants                                                    1.07          0.00          1.07
Recurrent Costs                                              1.01          0.00          1.01
Total Project Costs      8.32          3.22         11.54
Total Financing Required      8.32           3.22         11.54
-38 -



Annex 4
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Incremental Costs and Global Environment Benefits
Overview
1.    The overall goal of the GEF Alternative is the sustainable conservation of the biological diversity
and ecological integrity of selected forest, wetland, steppe and alpine ecosystems that are representative of
Turkey's four major biogeographic zones. These include the Black Sea and Caucasian mountain region, the
Central Anatolian plateau, and the European and Mediterranean regions. The GEF Alternative will (i)
establish effective, intersectoral, participatory planning and sustainable management of protected areas and
natural resources at four selected biodiversity conservation demonstration sites, and (ii) build capacity at
the national level to facilitate replication of these activities at priority conservation sites throughout Turkey.
This will include a review of the legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation and
exploration of opportunities for mainstreaniing biodiversity conservation in forest planning and
management, local land use planning, tourism development, agricultural extension and environmental
management of water systems. The total incremental cost to achieve these outputs is approximately
US$11.54 million, of which a grant of US$8.2 million is requested from GEF. The Government of Turkey
has committed to financing US$3.2 million (including US$0.9 million in incremental investment costs)
from its resources to complement GEF funding. Although there is no direct co-financing for the project,
there are many on-going and planned donor activities in Turkey which support the objectives of the
proposed project. The breakdown of these activities is provided in the analysis below.
Context & Broad Development Goals
2.    Turkey has 75% of the 12,000 plant species that occur in the whole of Europe. One third of
Turkish flora occurs only in Turkey. These include many wild relatives of important domestic species (e.g.,
wheat, barley, chic pea, lentil, cherry, pear, apricot, chestnut, pistachio, etc.), and many commercially
important timber, medicinal, aromatic, industrial and ornamental plant species. Also, since domestication
of plants first took place in the region, there are a wide variety of land races of domestic species, whose
genetic resources could be of immeasurable economic value. In addition, one of the three major flyways for
millions of migratory birds, which move between the Western Palearctic and Africa each year, passes
through Turkey. Since the country is predominantly semi-arid, Turkish wetlands are of crucial importance
for many of these migrants, and also for many breeding species of water birds, including a significant
proportion of the global populations of some species.
3.    The Turkish authorities are becoming increasingly aware of both the importance of indigenous
biodiversity and the significant threats to its sustainable management, which include a variety of
unsustainable land and natural resource practices that are increasingly impacting all Turkish ecosystems
and have been exacerbated by the six fold increase in population that has taken place in the country over
the last 60 years. These include: overgrazing and other unsustainable agricultural practices; conversion of
wetlands and other critical natural habitats to agriculture or other land development; interference with the
hydrological regime of wetlands for agriculture, municipal and industrial use of water; pollution, hunting
and unsustainable harvesting of wild plants and tubers. A staggering 80% of Turkey's land area (63 million
hectares) is estimated to be suffering from various levels of erosion due to unsustainable land use; since the
1940s, over three million hectares of gazetted forest lands have been lost to other forms of land use; more
than one third of Turkish wetlands (approximately 700,000 hectares) have been lost in the last four
decades, and as many as 70 million wild harvested ornamental bulbs and tubers (including aconites,
- 39 -



anemones and snowdrops, etc.) are exported annually.
4.     Turkey's broad development goals include accelerating structural reforms, addressing poverty and
social development, and enhancing competitiveness and employment growth, which requires integrating
environmental issues in economic policy and business decisions. In its effort to prioritize and emphasize
the importance of environmental issues, the Ministry of Environment (MoE) has developed environmental
assessment procedures, and a new environmental law is being reviewed by the Parliament. Additionally, a
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) has been prepared with the involvement of Government,
Municipalities, the private sector, and the NGO conmmunity. As a part of this exercise, and with the
support of GEF, a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (B SAP), which identifies the nations
priority conservation issues, has been prepared. With the assistance of the World Bank, a Turkish Forestry
Sector Review has been undertaken by the Ministry of Forestry (MoF) to (i) investigate ways of alleviating
poverty among forest communities (9 million of the country's poorest people, living in approximately one
quarter of the country's land area), and (ii) develop recommendations to bring about sustainable
management of all forest products and services, specifically including biodiversity.
Baseline Scenario
5.     The Baseline Scenario includes (a) on-going and planned activities undertaken by the Government
in order to promote conservation of biodiversity, sustainable natural resource management and
environmental awareness at the four project sites and the national level; and (b) current and planned
expenditures by donors (development agencies and NGOs) on biodiversity conservation activities in
Turkey.
6.     Government. Key government agencies that are responsible for biodiversity related issues in
Turkey are MoF and MoE, and their joint contribution to the Baseline Scenario over the life of the project
is estimated as US$35.88 million.
7.    MoF spent approximately US$7.7 million in 1999 on activities that ranged from erosion control
and reforestation to management of forest recreation. Of this figure, US$2.5 million was spent specifically
on national parks and US$0.9 million on forest recreation areas. Using the figure spent on national parks as
a typical annual average for expenditure on biodiversity related issues, it is expected that MoF will spend
approximately $15.0 million on activities related to biodiversity conservation and natural resource
management at the national scale over the life of the project. This figure reflects MoF's contribution to the
Baseline cost estimate.
8.     The General Directorate of National Parks and Wildlife (GDNP) of MoF is responsible for the
designation and management of the majority of Turkey's various categories of protected area and, through
its regional directorates, has a nationwide network of field based staff. Despite a doubling in size of
protected areas and national parks over the last five years, there has been negligible real increase in GDNP'
s budget for national parks. This increase in area, without a corresponding increase in resources, has
resulted in a decrease in the allocation available for management in the field. In a best case scenario, using
averages from the last 5 years, GDNP will spend approximately US$28.8 million in the four regional
directorates in which the project sites are located. The country is divided into nine regional directorates.
The projects sites are located in the following four: Central Anatolia, Western Black Sea, Eastern Black
Sea and Eastern Mediterranean. Anticipated expenditures in the actual project areas are approximately
$0.48 million over the life of the project. This figure reflects GDNP's contribution to the Baseline cost
estimate.
- 40 -



9.    The General Directorate of Forestry (GDF), another related agency under MoF, is responsible for
the management of forest ecosystems, forest production, protection of forests to prevent erosion, and
preparation of forest management plans. GDF spent approximately US$33 million in 1999 on forest
protection and management activities, including US$0.4 million on forest resource information systems and
US$1.4 million on cadastre. It is estimated that only a small amount of this total expenditure was related to
biodiversity conservation and protected area management. In a best case scenario, it is assumed that the
forest resource information systems will contribute to biodiversity management and monitoring, and using
the above expenditure as a typical annual average, it is expected that GDF will spend approximately
US$2.4 million on biodiversity related management activities at the national scale over the life of the
project. This figure reflects GDF's contribution to the Baseline cost estimate.
10.   MoE is responsible for the protection of environmental quality and natural values in Turkey and
the coordination of international agreements/conventions related to nature conservation. MoE spent
approximately US$3 million in 1999 on activities that ranged from ecological evaluation and monitoring of
wetlands to watershed management projects in various sites throughout the country. Using this figure as a
typical annual average, it is expected that MoE will spend approximately $18 million on biodiversity
conservation activities at the national scale over the life of the project. This figure reflects MoE's
contribution to the Baseline cost estimate.
11.   Donors. The Government of Turkey, in conjunction with donors, bilateral and multilateral
development agencies such as the World Bank, FAO and GTZ, is undertaking activities related to natural
resource management and biodiversity conservation. To date, several projects related to biodiversity
conservation have been completed in Turkey with support from such donors. Although not included in the
Baseline Scenario, these projects have provided an enabling environrnent for the implementation of the GEF
Alternative. These include:
* In-situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity (Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs - MARA,
MoF, and MoE) - US$5.7 million
* National Environmental Action Plan (MoE, World Bank) - US$100,000;
* Forestry Sector Review (MoF, FAO, World Bank, Global Overlays Program) - US$350,000;
* National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (MOE, World Bank - GEF) - US$50,000;
* Master plan for Sultan Sazligi National Park (Society for the Protection of Nature- DHKD, GEF)
- US$50,000;
* National Parks and protected areas management study tour to support capacity building for
planning and management of national parks and protected areas (FAO) - US$311,650.
12.   There are also a number of recently completed, on-going and planned donor-supported biodiversity
conservation and sustainable resource management activities in Turkey. The cost of these activities have
been included in the cost of the Baseline Scenario and are estimated as a total of US$11.2 million. These
activities include:
*  Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project, through MARA, MoF and the World Bank,
which helps to restore sustainable range, forest and farming activities in the upper watershed
regions by supporting participatory and integrated approaches to natural resource management.
The total cost of this project is US$109 mnillion, of which approximately US$40 million remains.
Approximately US$6.8 million of this amnount supports biodiversity conservation and natural
resource management and therefore is included in the Baseline cost estimate.
*  The management of broad-leaved species forests in the Black Sea region, through the MoF and
GTZ, which is developing plans and implementation methods for the sustainable management and
- 41 -



utilization of pure and mixed broad-leaved species forests in the northern regions of Turkey. The
total cost of the project is US$1.4 million, of which US$210,000 builds national capacity for
natural resources management (completed).
*  Forestry and Food Security in the Mediterranean and Near East Region, through the MoF and
FAO, which aims to contribute to more effective protection and sustainable development of the
forest and range resources in the project countries (which also include Jordan and Syria) through
participatory approaches. The Turkish component of this program costs US$850,000, of which
US$212,500 will support national capacity to address sustainable natural resources management
(completed).
* MoA and IFAD rural development projects in Bingol-Mus and Yozgat, which will improve the
living standards of the population in the project area through participatory development and
implementation of natural resource management. The cost of the two projects is US$10.9 million,
of which approximately US$1.1 million supports national capacity for natural resources
management.
*  GDF's project on development of Forest Resource Information Systems and Forest Management
Plans (FRIS) has US$2.4 million contribution from ENSO, Finland.
* Training from FAO in project preparation and management for selected staff of the MoF
(US$244,000 - completed).
*  A METAP project, through MoE, which is preparing an integrated conservation management and
economic development plan for Patara Beach with national NGOs (US$324,000).
13.   NGOs. International and national NGOs are involved in several biodiversity conservation and
sustainable resource management projects in Turkey, contributing to the enabling environment with support
from private and corporate donors, bilateral and multilateral agencies. The cost of these projects, US$0.4
million in total, are also included in the Baseline cost estimate. These projects do not represent a
comprehensive list of environmental activities being undertaken by NGOs in Turkey, but represents those
which, at the time of project preparation, are specifically related to the objectives of this project and are to
take place near or within the project sites. These are:
*  WWF's (Italy) regional Mediterranean program to support conservation (US$100,000).
*  DHKD's wetlands project at Sultan Sazligi (US$100,000) and watershed management project at
Uluabat Lake in cooperation with MoE (US$40,000).
*  The collaborative project by WWF (Italy), DHKD, and Flora & Fauna Intemational for the
commercial propagation of horticultural bulbs and tubers (US$35,000).
*  TEMA's rural development project in Camili, which will promote ecotourism, bee keeping, etc.
(US$25,000).
*  CEKUL's public awareness activities, mainly through tree planting campaigns (US$100,000).
14.   Baseline Costs. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$47.4 million,
including US$35.8 million from the Government of Turkey, US$11.2 million through intemational
cooperation, and US$0.4 million from national and international NGOs.
15.   Baseline Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in limited protection of
biodiversity in protected areas in Turkey and limited capacity to manage them sustainably. While the
number of protected areas in Turkey is increasing, the lack of a corresponding increase in government
resources means less is spent to manage each area. The efforts of international and national NGOs will
result in a marginal increase in environmental awareness, and the activities of development agencies will
result in a limited increase in sustainable natural resource management. These activities are unlikely to
-42 -



ensure protection of globally significant biological resources, due to lack of an explicit focus on
biodiversity values as well as institutional, financial, legal, and socioeconomic constraints to their
protection.
Global Environmental Objective
16.   Protected area management in Turkey has, historically, been primarily focused on provision of
recreational facilities for the public rather than the conservation of natural ecosystems and biodiversity.
Sustainable conservation of Turkey's unique ecosystems, through protected area planning, management and
monitoring has been hindered by: (a) overlapping responsibilities for protected area planning within
GDNP; (b) insufficient coordination among the agencies with official responsibility for conservation; (c)
lack of appropriate training for field and central level staff; and (d) insufficient involvement of local
communities and NGOs in protected area planning and management. With less than 3% of the country
designated as protected area, there is a need to improve the effectiveness of conservation management of
many of these last remaining critical ecosystems. This will entail addressing the threats to biodiversity
from regional development and natural resource use within the context of integrated conservation and
sustainable land use plans for protected areas and the lands surrounding them.
17.   Scope. The GEF Alternative would build on the Baseline Scenario by developing and
implementing decentralized systems to support sustainable protected area and natural resource management
plans at four priority biodiversity conservation sites and buffer zones, specifically targeting conservation of
unique Turkish ecosystems. The GEF Alternative would make possible activities and programs that would
not be undertaken under the Baseline Scenario, including strengthening of national level capacity to
prioritize the needs for protected area interventions and to replicate the experience gained at the project
sites throughout the country, and building of local capacity within key government agencies and NGOs
involved in project implementation at the field level to create an enabling environment for biodiversity
conservation. Moreover, it would facilitate the establishment of community based mechanisms to support
conservation-linked development and to reduce unsustainable use of shared resources. It would also build
public awareness of the importance and need to conserve Turkish biodiversity.
18.   Costs. The total cost of the GEF Altermative is estimated at US$58.94 million, detailed as
follows: a) Strengthen legal and regulatory framework and sectoral policies for biodiversity - US$1.06
million (GEFfinancing - US$0.26 million); b) Establish institutional capacity to develop a national
network of protected areas - US$6.21 million (GEFfinancing - US$1.02 million); c) Establish an
information system to support planning, implementation and monitoring of protected area management and
replication - US$4.93 million (GEFfinancing - US$0.59 million); d) Incorporate biodiversity concerns
into forest management plans - US$2.64 million (GEFfinancing - US$0.35 million); e) Establish a
national public awareness program to build support for biodiversity conservation - US$3.98 million (GEF
financing - US$1. 01 million); f) Establish systems for sustainable participatory planning and management
of four protected areas - US$18.91 million (GEFfinancing - US$4.86 million); g) Establish mechanisms
for sustainable natural resource management - US$14.46 million (GEFfinancing - US$1.78 million); h)
Establish local public awareness programs biodiversity conservation - US$6.19 million (GEFfinancing -
US$1.05 million); i) Project management and monitoring - US$0.56 million (GEFfinancing - US$0.39
million);
19.   Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative would protect unique forest, alpine, steppe and
wetland ecosystems and threatened endemic species, as well as enhance the region's function as an
internationally important flyway for water birds and other species. Benefits generated from the project
would include those classified as "national" (protection of local and regional environmental resources and
-43 -



increased public awareness of environmental issues), as well as those considered "global" in nature.
Global benefits would include the sustainable conservation of some of the last remaining stands of pristine
and natural forests of the Mediterranean, Caucasian, and European regions; wetland and steppe ecosystems
of the Central Anatolian Plateau and Thrace; and the large number of endemic plant and animal species
which are supported by these ecosystems.
20.   Incremental Costs.   The difference between the costs of the Baseline Scenario (US$58.94
million) and the cost of GEF Altemative (US$47.6 million) is estimated at US$ 11.54 million. This
represents the incremental cost for achieving global environmental benefits. The Government of Turkey
has committed to financing US$3.2 million (including US$0.9 million in incremental investment costs)
from its resources to complement GEF funding. A GEF grant of US$ 8.2 million is proposed.
-44-



Incremental Cost Matrix
Component Sector Cost             US$      Domestic Benefit             Global Benefit
Category       Million
Preparing a        Baseline       0.8      Increased capacity and
strategy for                               enabling legal and regulatory
rationalizing the                          environment for sustainable
legal framework                            management of natural
for biodiversity                           resources
conservation
With GEF       1.06                                 Increased capacity and enabling
Alternative                                         legal and regulatory
environment to manage
protected areas and natural
resources sustainably and
conserve biodiversity of global
importance.
Incremental    0.26
Strengthen the     Baseline       5.14     Increased capacity for
institutional                              sustainable management of
capacity to develop                        biodiversity and natural
a national network                         resources.
of protected areas
With GEF       6.21                                 Increased capacity to manage
Alternative                                         protected areas and natural
resources sustainably and to
conserve biodiversity of global
importance.
Incremental    1.07
Establish a system   Baseline     4.34      Demonstration of options for
to monitor the                             planning, establishment and
status of                                  long term monitoring of
biodiversity                               sustainable natural resource
management in Turkey.
With GEF       4.93                                 Increased capacity to prioritize
Alternative                                         protected area interventions and
manage protected areas to
incorporate conservation of
biodiversity of intemational
._________________   ________ _____   __ ________ ______significance.
Incremental    0.59
-45 -



Demonstrate how   Baseline       2.28     Increased capacity to
biodiversity issues                       incorporate biodiversity
can be                                    concerns into forest
incorporated into                         management plans
forest management
planning
With GEF      2.64                                Increased sustainable
Alternative                                       management of some of the last
remaining stands of pristine and
natural forests of the
Mediterranean, Caucasian, and
European (Thracean) regions.
Incremental    0.35
Preparing and     Baseline       2.97     Increased national capacity to
implementing a                            raise public awareness;
national public                          increased public awareness of
awareness                                 environmental issues and the
program to build                          need for sustainable natural
support for                               resource management
biodiversity
conservation
With GEF      3.98                                Increased public awareness of
Alternative                                       the importance of conservation
of globally significant
biodiversity in Turkey, and of
the issues that need to be
addressed in order to achieve
this objective.
Incrernental    1.01
Establish systems  Baseline      14.05    Prevention of environmental
for sustainable                           degradation and sustainable
participatory                             management of biodiversity
planning and                              and natural resources in these
management of                             sites
four protected
areas
With GEF      18.91                               Conservation of globally
Alternative                                       significant biodiversity in the
steppe, alpine, forest and
wetland ecosystems of Turkey's
._____________________ four biogeographical zones.
Incremental    4.86     _
-46 -



Establish         Baseline       12.68    Economic benefits from
mechanisms for                           sustainable use of natural
sustainable natural                      resources and tourist activities
resource                                 in the project sites.
management
With GEF      14.46                               Sustainable management of
Alternative                                       natural resources in areas of
global significance, with
particular emphasis on
protected area buffer zone
land-use planning.
Incremental    1.78
EstabUsh pubUc    Baseline      5.14    Increased public awareness of
awareness                                environmental issues and the
programs for                             need for sustainable natural
protected areas                          resource management in and
around the project sites.
With GEF      6.19                               Increased public awareness of
Alternative                                       the importance of conservation
of globally significant
biodiversity in Turkey,
particularly in the project sites,
and of the issues that need to be
addressed in order to achieve
this objective.
Incremental    1.04
Project           Baseline      -        Not applicable
management and
monitoring                   _             _
With GEF      0.56                                Not applicable
Alternative
Incrernental    0.56
Totals            Baseline      47.4
With GEF      60.46
Alternative
Incremental   11.54
-47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Years Ending
06130
I Year1  I Year 2  1 Year 3    Year 4  I Year 5  I Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.6       3.2        2.9        1.1       0.9        0.7       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.1      0.0
Total Project Costs          1.8        3.4       3.1        1.3       1.1        0.8       0.0
Total Financing              1.8        3.4       3.1        1.3        1.1       0.8       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1.3       2.3        2.3       0.9        0.8       0.6       0.0
Govemment                 0.4        1.0        0.7       0.3        0.2       0.2       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     1.8        3.4       3.1        1.3        1.1      0.8        0.0
| Year I I Year 2 J  Year3 3      Year4 4   Year5  | Year6 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    0.0'       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 48 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures.
Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al. Consulting services, goods and
works financed by the Bank shall be procured in accordance to Bank procurement guidelines. All other
procurement information, including capability of the of the implementing agency, estimated dates for
publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in Tables B and B 1.
Project Implementation Unit. MoF has overall responsibility for the project, including procurement,
disbursement, maintenance of project accounts and coordination of implementation. MoF will establish a
Project Management Team (PMT) attached to MoF's Research, Planning and Coordination Council
(APK). MoF will assign full time staff to PMT, including a project coordinator, a procurement officer and
a financial manager. PMT will undertake project management and will oversee implementation of project
activities at both national and field levels.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. A Procurement Capacity Assessment of MoF was carried out on
October 2-8, 1999. While the government agencies involved have extensive experience in public
procurement and procurement under internationally financed projects, the proposed staff to work in PMT
does not have direct familiarity with procurement under World Bank-funded projects. The proposed risk
category for the procurement under this project is "average", based on the analysis provided in the
assessment. The assessment report has been attached to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. The appropriate sample procurement documents issued
by the Bank will be used with the minimum changes acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of Civil Works (US$1.69 milion, of which US$0.89 million will be financed by the
Bank). Civil works are intended for construction of visitor centers, staff housing, entrance buildings,
lookout points, boundary markers, boardwalks, car parks and daytime tourist facilities at the four project
sites.
The following methods of procurement would be used:
National Competitive Bidding or NCB (US$1.49 million, of which US$0.78 milDion will be
financed by the Bank). NCB procedures will be applied for works contracts estimated to cost below
US$1 million, but above US$100,000 up to an aggregate not to exceed US $1.49 million. For these
contracts the regional Bank's standard NCB documents will be used. All efforts should be made to ensure
proper advertisement, so that a wide range of contractors, including foreign contractors, can have the
opportumity to bid.
*     Procurement of Minor Civil Works or MCW (US$0.2 milion, of which US$0.11 milion will
- 49 -



be financed by the Bank). Minor civil works contracts with an estimated cost below US$100,000 up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed US $0.20 million. These works will be procured under lump-sum, fixed
price or unit rate contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified local
contractors in response to local advertisement. The bidding document shall include a detailed description of
works, including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement consistent
with the standard document to be cleared by the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for work and who has the experience
and resources to successfully complete the contract. A list of qualified contractors should be formed --and
periodically updated-- by PMT by requesting at least every six months expressions of interest and relevant
information from local contractors while advertising local minor civil works contract opportunities.
Procurement of Goods (US$2.0 million, of which US$1.6 million will be financed by the Bank).
Visitor center equipment, including information technology and audio-visual equipment, field equipment,
vehicles, agricultural demonstration kits, office equipment and supplies will be grouped to the extent
practical to encourage competitive bidding. The following methods will be used:
International Competitive Bidding or ICB (US$1.2 million, of which US$0.96 million will be
financed by the Bank). Except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, goods contracts estimated to cost
above US$ 100,000 will be procured through ICB procedures.
*     International Shopping or IS ($0.3 million, of which US$0.24 milion win be financed by the
Bank). Except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, contracts for goods readily available off-the shelf or
standard specification commodities estimated to cost less than US$100,000, but more than US$50,000, up
to an aggregate not to exceed US$0.30 million may be procured under IS procedures by obtaining
competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries.
*     National Shopping or NS ($0.5 milion, of which US$0.4 million wiUl be financed by the Bank).
Goods contracts with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and up to an aggregate not to exceed US$0.50
million may be procured through NS by obtaining price quotations from at least three suppliers in Turkey
at competitive prices.
Procurement of Services (US$3.0 million, of which US$2.4 million will be financed by the Bank).
Contracts for consultants' services will be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in
January and revised in September 1997 and January, 1999. The services financed under the grant are:
design and works supervision, technical assistance for legal review, park management, natural resource use
and public awareness and training. Selection of Consultants and their contracts will be based on the
standard documents issued by the Bank for the procurement of such services with the minimal necessary
modifications as agreed by the Bank. Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) can compete in the
selection process, provided that they have expressed their interest in doing so, and that their qualifications
are satisfactory to both the Government and the Bank.
Selection of fums. Unless Qtherwise agreed with the Bank, Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) will be the preferred method for selection of firms in contracts with estimated values above
US$100,000. Contracts for studies to design and maintain the biodiversity information system, for
replicating prototype protected areas, designing and supervising construction, developing radio, television
and film clips, studies for target conservation species, and also for some training courses and study tours,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be procured following the selection based on Consultants
- 50 -



Qualifications (CQ).
Selection of Individuals. Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, individual consultants will be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignrment by comparing at least 3 CVs from potential
candidates.
Sub-grants (US$1.07 nillion financed by the Bank). Sub-grants to encourage sustainable resource use
and promote park-friendly business activities will be awarded to project beneficiaries on a competitive
basis at each of the project sites. The mechanisms for awarding these grants, including establishing grant
committees and developing eligibility criteria, procedures for application and a monitoring system, will be
deternined within the second year of project implementation with the participation of local stakeholders and
will be submitted for the Bank's approval before implementation. Sub-grants will be available for both
goods and works, for a maximum amount of US$ 10,000 and will be subject to an official audit.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
Goods and Works: All ICB and the first two NCB works contracts are subject to Bank's prior review as
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Also the first two contracts procured
under IS procedures, the first two contracts procured under NS procedures and the first two contracts
procured for minor civil works are subject to prior review.
Consultants: With respect to consulting services, prior Bank review will be required for all terms of
reference, irrespective of the contract value. For contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, after the
technical proposals have been evaluated, the technical evaluation reports will be submitted to the Bank for
its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals. For contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or
more the Bank will be notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the priced
proposals. For contracts with individuals costing US$25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms
of reference and terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to
contract signature. All other contracts are subject to post review (one in ten contracts). With respect to the
selection of individuals, all positions for international consultants, and positions for local consultants
estimated to cost more than $10,000, will be advertised.
- 51 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
C. . .
1. Works                            0.00            1.49           0.20           0.00           1.69
(0.00)         (0.78)         (0. I1)        (0.00)         (0.89)
2. Goods                             1.20           0.00           0.80           0.02           2.02
(0.96)         (0.00)         (0.64)         (0.00)         (1.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           4.61           0.00           4.61
Workshops, training and             (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.69)         (0.00)         (3.69)
study tours
4. Sub-grants                        0.00           0.00           1.07           0.00           1.07
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.07)         (0.00)         (1.07)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00           1.17           0.98           2.15
Costs                              (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.94)         (0.00)         (0.94)
Total                             1.20           1.49           7.85           1.00          11.54
(0.96)         (0.78)         (6.45)         (0.00)         (8.19)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
v Under Works, other methods include minor works contracts (US$0.20 million).
Under Goods, other methods include: 1. IS contracts (US$0.30 million)
2. NS contracts (US$0.50 million).
Under Services, other methods include: 1. QCBS contract (US$1.25 million)
2. CQ contracts (US$0.98 million)
3. Contracts for Individuals (US$0.77 million)
Subgrants to project site beneficiaries (US$1.07 million): the maximum limit for these grants will be US$20,000.
Incremental Operating Costs to be financed by the Grant include: office supplies and materials, first aid kits,
promotional materials, grant application materials, publications, memberships, subscriptions to intemational
publications, press releases, training and educational materials, and travel.
Incremental Operating Costs to be financed by Government include: seasonal guards, vehicle operation and
maintenance, office operation and maintenance and email/intemet access.
- 52 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           1.25     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.98      0.00      0.00      2.23
(1___.00)__(0.00)9L   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.78)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1 .78)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.77      0.00      0.77
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.62)    (0.00)    (0.62)
Total   1.25     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.98      0.77      0.00      3.00
(1.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.78)    (0.62)    (0.00)    (2.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value        Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)           Method          Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US $ millions                              US $ millions
1. Works                 < 1.000               NCB                 0.85 (0.44)
< 0.100               MW                  0.11 (0.06)
2. Goods                 > 0.100               ICB                 1.20 (0.96)
< 0.100                IS                 0.14 (0.12)
< 0.050               NS                  0.05 (0.04)
3. Services                                    QCBS                 1.25 (1.0)
<0.100                CQ                 0.00 (0.00)
Ind.               0.09 (0.07)
Total                                                              3.69 (2.69)
Total value of                                             32.0% (32.8%)
contracts subject to
prior review:
Note: Figures in parenthesis indicate the amount to be financed by the Bank grant.
-53 -



Table B1: Summary Procurement Table
Section 1: Ptmurement Review
Goods and         ICB             NCB             is             NS        Minor Works      Other methods     Percentage of
Civil Works                                                                                                   loan arnount
subject to prior
_ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _         ~~~~~~~~~~~~review
Prourment   Goods >$0.100  -                  G < $0.100      G < $0.050
thresholds:          ($0.96)                  ($0.24)        ($0.40)
Individual                     W<$1.00                                      W<$0.100
and aggregate                  ($0.78)                                      ($0.11)
Prior Review   All             Firsttwo       First two       Firsttwo      First two                         $1.62
($0.96)          ($0.44)        ($0.12)        ($0.04)        ($0.06)                           19.8%
Consultants    QCBS            QBS            Fixed Budge    LCS            Qualifications   Individuals
Procurement                    NA             NA              NA            <$100,000      -
rnethod      ($1.00)                                                        ($0.78)        ($0.62)
thresholds    I
Prior Review   AB contracts                                                 All terms of   All twno of        $1.07
($1.00)                                                       reference.     reference.         13.00/o
> $0.025 ful
review
Ex-post       Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: One in ten contracts are subject to post review, which will be carned out penodically
I during supervision missions
Section 2: Capacity of the mplemeting Agency in Procinnnt and Technical Assistance requiremrent review
The capacity of the implemnentation agency to conduct procuremrent has been assessed. As a result, the folbwing action plan is recomnnended: (i) A
procuremnent book containing guidelines, templates, standard bidding dormaents, evaluation fonnats, sample invitation to quote, RFPs and standard
consuhant contracts should be prepared and made available to the PMT and PAMAs befire the Project Launch Workshop on June 15, 2000; (ii) MoF
should hire a procurement consultant with 5 years international expeience in WB procuernent to provide support to PMT prior to the Project Launch
Workshop on June 15, 2000; (iii) PMT proeent staff ahall attend training offered by CU or in ILO Turin durng the early stage of project
irnplementation, and (iv) during the project urnch workshop, sufficient time should be devoted to procurement to discuss thresholds, review levels,
standard bidding documents, etc..
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Pfciaemnent  Are the bidding dwocrnents for the procuremnent actions of the first year
Strategy Paper status:                                       ready by negotiations
Yes  01                       No  EO willbediscussedduring
appraisal
___________                       Section 3: Trning,Infomation and Dvel ent on Procurement
Estimated date of   Estimated date of pubhcation  Indicate if there is   Doiestc Preference for      Domestic Preference for
Project Launch      of Geneal Procisnent      procuernent subject to     Goods.                      Works. if applicable
Workshop            Notice                    mandatory advertisement in
06/15/00            04/15/00                  Development Business       Yes  0z        No  0        Yes  0         No  0
Yes 0Z
I___--- - --             ,No.0
Retroactive financing                                                    Advance prourem nt
Yes   '        No                           Explain: There mnay be
retoactive financing for costs associated with setting up a financial managemnent  Yes  0  No  0Z    Explain
system acceptable to the Bank prior to effectiveness.
Explain briefly the Prouemuernt Monitoring Systemn: Pncurement imnpkementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and
supervision nissions. Each supervision mnission will include a procurement specialist Shelhe will be responsible for updating the procurement plan
and conducting ex-post review. His/her findings will be included in the swervision reports for monitoring and implerntation.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the pmroeent armngernents under co-financing: None
Section 4: Procuremet Staffing
Indicate nane of Procurement Staffor Bank's staffpart ofTask Tean reaponsible for the procurem ent in the Project: Nare: Naushad Khan, Senior
Procurement Specialist
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procnent: The Resident Mission has accredited procurement staff.
*  Figures in parenthesis indicate the amount to be financed by the Bank grant
- 54 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of grant proceeds: Disbursements will follow normal Bank procedures and will be made against
the categories of expenditures indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed project area expected to
be disbursed over a period of six years. The anticipated completion date is June 30, 2006, and the closing
date December 31, 2006.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Works                                      0.80                         52%
Goods                                      1.44               100% of foreign expenditures
100% of national expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of national expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consulting Services, Training,             3.32                         80%
Workshops and Study Tours
Sub-grants                                 0.96                100% of amount disbursed
Incremental Operating Costs                0.85                         80%
Unallocated                                0.83
Total Project Costs                        8.20
Total                                      8.20
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods valued at less than US$100,000 each; (b) contracts for works
less than US$100,000 each; and (c) contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$100,000
equivalent, and contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$25,000 equivalent; d) contracts
for training; e) all sub-grant contracts; and f) all incremental operating costs.
Special account:
Special Account: To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Grant account, the
Govermment will establish a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank to be operated by the PMT under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation amounts to US$500,000
equivalent. Upon effectiveness, the Bank will provide for an advance of US$250,000 representing 500/o of
the authorized allocation. When the total funds withdrawn from the Grant Account amount to US$2.0
million, the beneficiaries may withdraw the remaining balance amounting to US$250,000 equivalent.
Replenishment applications should be submitted not later than every three months. These applications
would be fully documented, except in the case where Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are pernitted, and
would be supported by a reconciliation statement and bank statement(s). The SA will be maintained by the
PMT.
PAMA Advance Accounts: In addition to the Special Account administrated by PMT, an Advance
Account will be established by each PAMA at a suitable commercial bank nearest to the site. Since
- 55 -



working capital is not available for project expenditures, the use of Advance Accounts will give the
PAMAs direct access to funds for site expenditures. The Advance Accounts will be replenished by the
Special Account. An amount equivalent to 90 days of anticipated expenditure would be advanced based on
an annual work program. The advances will be used to meet project expenditures in the four sites.
Subsequent advances to PAMAs will be given only upon their accounting for the advances previously
received. PMT will be responsible for preparation and submission of regular replenishment requests with
appropriate supporting documents for expenditures incurred. Among the documents that accompany
replenishment applications, a reconciliation statement for the Special Account showing deposits received
from the Bank, the amount advanced to PAMAs, the date on which this advance was made and the amnount
awaiting documentation from PMT with an explanation for the delay.
PMR-based disbursements: It is expected that PMR based disbursements under the grant will comnence
during early implementation, based on quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs). The format of the
PMR reports will be discussed with the PMT during the follow-up mission by the Regional FMS.
Financial Management and Accounting
The financial management and accounting preparedness of the project has been reviewed by the Financial
Management Specialist for the project and by the country Financial Management Officer at the Turkey
Country Office and has been found to be satisfactory.
Organization Structure, Special Accounts and Accounting System
The Financial Management and Accounting function for the Project is centralized at the PMT. Project
books of accounts for the PMT and the PAMAs are kept at the PMT (in parallel to the sets of accounts
maintained by the PAMAs). All contracts and tender documents are issued by the PMT even though much
of the preparatory work on tender documentation and contracts are undertaken by the PAMAs. The PMT
is also responsible for operating the Special Account and for submitting SOEs to the Bank. The PAMAs
maintain their own books of accounts but are required to send copies of documentation and records to the
PMT.
The Financial Department of the PMT is headed by a Financial Manager who reports directly to the Project
Manager of PMT. There are four staff under the Financial Manager responsible for maintaining the books
of accounts. Every PAMA has an accountant responsible for maintaining records of all expenses under the
project. Given that the Ministry of Forestry has implemented several intemationally funded projects,
(including a GEF grant) many of the staff are experienced in accounting and procurement requirements of
the Bank. The organization structure is deemed satisfactory for the management of the project.
The funding for the project (including the grant and the Government's contribution) is earmarked in
National budget. Funds will be allocated annually for the project to the Ministry of Forestry in line with
the disbursement schedule provided in the project documents. Funds from the Bank would be transferred to
a Special Account opened by the Treasury in US Dollars for this project at the Central Bank. The Special
Account would be operated by the PMT. There will be four signatory authorities for the special account of
which two signatures would be required. All expenses (except for direct payments by the Bank) for the
project will be paid directly out of the Special Account. The operational expenses for the PMT and the
PAMAs (e.g. salaries, rent, office expenses) will be borne by each of the imnplementation agencies out of
their own budgets.
The Ministry of Forestry keeps its books of accounts on a cash basis of accounting in accordance with
- 56 -



internationally acceptable principles Based on a review of the National Chart of Accounts and format of
financial statements. The PMT will continue to use a cash basis of accounting and would prepare annual
financial statements (including the Balance sheet, income and expenditure statement and a cash flow
statement) as required by the Bank (under OP 10.02). The chart of accounts have been prepared by the
PMT and reviewed by the Bank. The PMT and the PAMAs use a computerized accounting system for
keeping their books of accounts and is able to generate the financial statements as per the requirements of
the Government
Internal Controls andAudit
The organizational structures of the PMT and PAMAs, and the accounting (and procurement) procedures
allow for good internal controls. All expenses made by the PMT or the PAMAs are first verified by the
central procurements unit and checked against the budget allocated for each item (or component).
Procurement for all goods and services are made by the PMT based on the requisitions made by the
PAMAs. Supplier invoices are verified against the contracts (or delivery of goods) by the procurements
and signed off by the Project director and head of the procurement unit then sent to the Accounting
department for payment. All payments under the project will be made by bank transfers or payment orders.
There is sufficient segregation along functional lines to allow for a good internal control system.
All Ministries in Turkey have their own internal audit department. These departments are responsible for
verification of books of accounts or procedures or contracts of departments within each ministry. They
rarely perform a complete internal audit of any department.
The Ministry of Finance also has an audit department that is responsible for reviewing the accounting and
internal procedures of other ministries or government departments. These reviews, made randomly do not
constitute a full audit. All Government Departments are required to send their financial statements to the
Ministry of Finance by March 31 of the following year.
The Court of Accounts in Turkey is responsible for verifying the books of accounts of all government
departments and agencies. All government agencies send in the financial statements and copies of all
supporting documents to the Court of Accounts for their review, by March 31 of the following year.
Normally, the Court completes its assessment by the end of the calendar year. However, in cases where
discrepancies are found, it immediately commences an in-depth review (or court action) without waiting for
the completion of their review. The review of the Court does not comprise an audit but more of an in depth
review of authenticity of contracts and adherence to budgets.
In Turkey, independent auditors cannot audit books of accounts of government agencies. The auditors of
the Treasury audit all World Bank projects. Funds have been provided for in the project for appointing
independent auditors in the event that the Government allows an independent audit.
The PMT will submit unaudited financial statements for the project by three months after the close of every
fiscal year and audited statements within six months after the close of every fiscal year.
Project Management Reports (PMRs) LA CI
The Ministry of Forestry has decided not to use PMR based disbursement for the project during the first
year of the project. A decision on PMR based disbursement will be made after the first audited report is
submitted. The main problem with PMR based disbursement would be the certification (or endorsement)
of the PMRs prior to them being sent to Bank. The PMT would have to depend on the Treasury to perform
- 57 -



a quarterly review of the PMRs within 30-35 days of every quarter (in order to meet the Bank's deadline of
45 days). The other option would be for the country FMO or FMS to review the PMRs every quarter - this
may not be a practical option in view of the costs and time involved.
The PMT will send the Bank PMRs on a quarterly basis from the quarter ended December 31, 2000 or
earlier. The PMT has identified three local consulting fims who would be able to prepare an automated
system that would interface with the existing accounting system to generate the PMRs. The system is
expected to be installed by June 30, 2000 and would be operational by September 30, 2000. For the three
quarters starting quarter ended Pecember 31, 2000, the PMT will submit reports IA (Project Sources and
Uses of Funds), IB (Uses of Funds by Project Activity) and IE (Special Account Statement). Starting with
quarter ended June 30, 2001 all PMRs will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
The format of the PMRs were agreed with the PMT during appraisal.
Supervision and Oversight
The FMS for the project will visit the project on a semi annual basis in addition to reviewing the project
accounts, PMRs and financial statements. The country FMO will also provide assistance in this regards as
and when required.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             09/23/95                     09/28/95
Appraisal mission departure                     02/04/2000                   02/21/2000
Negotiations                                    02/28/2000                   03/07/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/15/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Forestry
Preparation assistance:
GEF Block B Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
John Fraser Stewart               Biodiversity and Natural Resouces Specialist - Team Leader
Nedret Durutan                    Agricultural Specialist
Cuneyt Okan                       Operations Officer
Charis Wuerffel                   Operations Analyst
Kerstin Canby                     Operations Analyst
Yasemin Biro                      Young Professional
Irene Bomani                      Program Assistant
Ulker Karamullaoglu               Team Assistant
John A. Hayward                   Sector Leader, Quality Assurance
Marory-Ann Bromhead               Senior Economist, Quality Assurance
Adriana Dinu                      Biodiversity/Protected Area Specialist
Dilek Barlas                      Legal Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Senior Disbursement Officer
Jose Martinez                     Procurement Specialist
Arben Maho                        Procurement Analyst
Gurdev Singh                      Procurement Consultant
Ramendra Basu                     Financial Management Specialist
Steve Lintner                     Lead Specialist - peer reviewer
Tjaart W. Schillhorn Van Veen     Sr. Livestock Specialist - Peer Reviewer
Louis Carbonnier                  Forestry Resource Specialist
Mircea Verghelet                  Forest Conservation Planning Specialist
Gordon Temple                     Economist
Karin Shepardson                  ECA GEF Regional Coordinator
Kathleen Mackinnon                Senior Biodiversity Specialist
Jocelyne Albert                   Senior GEF Regional Coordinator
Janis Bernstein                   Environmental Specialist, Social Development
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Terms of Reference for Project Management Team
2. Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation
3. Project Implementation Schedule
4. Project Impact Indicators and Monitoring Plan
5. Procurement Plan
6. Project Cost Tables
7. Annual Work plans
8. Stakeholder Analysis and Participatory Approach
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Assessment
2. Environmental Review
C. Other
1. SECA-BRL Project Preparation Study
2. Forestry Sector Review Report
3. Global Environmental Overlays Program Report (undertaken in conjunction with the Forestry Sector
Review)
4. Turkey Social Assessment (undertaken for the Forestry Sector Review)
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Prject ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P009044       1992 Turkey                     AGRIC. RESEARCH                                    55.00       0.00       6.00       9.40      15.40       9.40
P009093       1995 Turkey                     ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                              100.00       0.00       0.00      71.40      28.61       0.00
P009089       1998 Tukey                      BASIC ED I                                        300.00       0.00       0.00     248.72     206.02       0.00
P009065       1993 Turkey                     BURSA WATER & SANITA                              129.50       0.00      20.00      10.31      20.19      -5.62
P008985        1996 Turkey                    CESME W.S. & SEWER.                                13.10       0.00       0.00      11.92       3.22       0.00
P048851        1999 Turkey                    COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                                4.00       0.00       0.00       3.90       1.95       0.00
P009023       1993 Turkey                     E. ANATOLIA WATERSHE                               77.00       0.00       0.00      31.86      39.66     -18.19
P009099       1993 Ture"y                     EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU                              285.00       0.00      78.50       8.85      85.35      23.85
P065188       2000 Turkey                     EFIL                                              25Z53        0.00       0.00     245.00      .7.47       0.00
P088394       2000 Turkey                     EMG. EARTHQUAKE RECOV. - EERL                     252.53       0.00       0.00      53.32       0.00       0.00
P058877       1999 Turkey                     EMGY FLOOD RECOVERY                               389.00       0.00       0.00     251.24     146.74      24.44
P009064       1993 Turkey                     EMPLOYMENT & TRAJNIN                               67.00       0.00       0.00      30.72      30.72       0.00
P009076       1995 Tudrey                     HEALTH II                                         150.00       0.00       0.00      93.48     100.83       1.00
P009073       1999 Turkey                     INDUSTRIAL TECH                                   155.00       0.00       0.00     148.86      -4.14       0.00
P088388       2000 Turkey                     MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY                      505.00       0.00       0.00     489.95      64.95       0.00
P048652       1998 Turkey                     RECONSTRUC.                                       270.00       0.00       0.00     269.75     115.00       0.00
P009095       1997 Turkey                     NArL. TRNSM. GRID                                  14.50       0.00       0.00      14.20      11.80       0.70
P009072       1998 Turkey                     PRIM HEALTH CARE SER                               20.00       0.00       0.00      16.60      12.10       1.60
P035759       1996 Tukey                      PRIV. OF IRRIGAIION                                62.00       0.00       0.00      52.41      48.41       8.44
P038091       1996 Turkey                     PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.                                2500.0       0.00       0.00     118.14      84.35       0.00
P009097       1992 Turkey                     ROAD IMPRL & SAFETY                                 9.20       0.00       0.00       0.70       0.70       0.00
P009071       1991 Turkey                     TA FOR TREASURY DATA                              300.00       0.00      26.69      23.87      50.57      38.57
TEK RESTRUCT.
Total:     3640.36        0.00      131.19     2202.60   1054.96      84.19
- 61 -



TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval       Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994              AYTAC                         5.33    0.00    0.00    6.67    5.33    0.00    0.00    6.67
1998              Adana Cement                 15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998              Altematif Bank               10.00    0.00    5.00   15.00   10.00    0.00    5.00   15.00
1995/96           Arcelik                      40.00    0.00    0.00   22.90   40.00    0.00    0.00   22.90
2000              Arcelik LG Klima             14.16    0.00    0.00    9.43    8.25    0.00    0.00    5.50
1994/97           Assan                         7.68    0.00    5.00    6.25    7.68    0.00    5.00    6.25
Borcelik                     8.00    4.46    0.00    0.00    8.00    4.46    0.00    0.00
1994/96/97        CBS Boya Kimya                0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00
1995/96           CBS Holding                   4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              CBS Printas                   0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00
1996              Cayeli Baldr                 18.90    0.00    0.00    5.10   18.90    0.00    0.00    5.10
1992              Cerrahogullari                0.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.76    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Conrad                        1.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/93           Demir Leasing                 5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98           Demirbank                    10.50    0.00    0.00   14.50   10.50    0.00    0.00   14.50
1994/96           Edirne                        1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989              Ekspres Bank                  2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Eldor                         4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96           Elginkan                     11.94    0.00    0.00    1.11   11.94    0.00    0.00    1.11
1988/93/96        Entek                        25.00    0.00    0.00   26.50   25.00    0.00    0.00   26.50
1995              Finans Leasing                5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98           Garanti Leasing               6.11    0.00    0.00   36.54    6.11    0.00    0.00   36.54
1994/98/00        Global Security               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96        Gurnussuyu Kap                9.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    4.00    0.00    2.78    0.00
1999              Indorama Iplik               10.00    0.66    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.66    0.00    0.00
1998              IpekPaper                    30.70    0.00    0.00   18.00   30.70    0.00    0.00   18.00
1998              Isvicre Hayat                 0.00    0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.08    0.00    0.00
1994/98           Kepez Elektrik               13.36    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990              Kiris                         8.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/90           Kocbank                       8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Koclease                     10.71    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Korfezbank                   12.00    0.00    0.00   24.00   12.00    0.00    0.00   24.00
1992/97           Koy-Tur                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92           Kula                          4.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.62    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              Medya                         0.00    0.00    4.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.99    0.00
1993/96           Modem Karton                 20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998              NASCO                        10.22    0.00    0.00    3.51   10.22    0.00    0.00    3.51
1991              Ottoman                      20.00    0.00    0.00   80.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   80.00
1998              OyakBank                     11.67    0.00    0.00   15.00   11.67    0.00    0.00   15.00
1997              Pasabahce-Schott             14.56    0.00    0.00   14.56   14.56    0.00    0.00   14.56
1998              PinarET                      11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1983194/98        Pinar SUT                    14.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/00           Rant Leasing                  2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
0/97              SAKoSa                       23.09    0.00    0.00   22.59   23.09    0.00    0.00   22.59
1999
- 62 -



Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1986/90            Silkar Turizm                 3.52    0.00    0.00    4.01    3.52    0.00    0.00    4.01
1993/96            Sise Ve Cam                  13.28    0.00    0.00   17.71   13.28    0.00    0.00   17.71
1998               Soktas                       11.45    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               TCRA                          0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
TDD                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               TEB Finansal                  5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Tekfen                        1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Toprak Leasing                 3.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.56    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Trakya Cam                     0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00
1979/82183/89/91/96/9 Turk Ekon Bank            15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
9                  Turkiye Garanti              18.18    0.00    0.00   86.36   18.18    0.00    0.00   86.36
1995/99           Unye Cement                   20.82    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.82    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/98           Uzel                          20.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    7.94    0.00    0.00    5.96
1999              Viking                        11.36    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Yalova Acrylic                5.65    0.00    0.00    3.01    5.65    0.00    0.00    3.01
1970/71/82/83/98   Yapi Kredi Lease              3.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995
1997/98
Total Portfolio:      566.16    8.05   17.77  487.75  527.00    8.00    17.77  474.78
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              CBS Group Restr               5800.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995              ENTEK - KOC                      0.00      0.00      0.00  15000.00
2000              EarthquakeRelief              50000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Ege Seramik                   18000.00     0.00   5000.00      0.00
2000              Erbakir                        5000.00   5000.00     0.00      0.00
1999              Finansbank A.S.               10000.00     0.00      0.00  35000.00
2000              Ipek BLINC                        0.00     0.00      0.00  15000.00
2000              Kordsa (Dusa I)               15000.00   5000.00     0.00  15000.00
Total Pending Commnitinent:  103800.00  10000.00   5000.00  80000.00
- 63 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Europe 4    Uppr-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middlr -
Turkey      Asia    income       Development diamond'
1998
Population. mid-vear (millions)                        63.5       473         8                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    3.160      2,190     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      200.5      1,039     2,862
Average annual growth, 19924i8
Population (%)                                          1.5        0.1       1.4
Labor force (%)                                         2.8        0.6       2.0      GNP                  *           Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 192-98)                                  capita                       enolment
Poverty (% of population below tnatlonal poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                   73        68         T7
Life exPectanCv at birth (years)                         69        69         70
Infant mortalltv (per t000 live births)                  40        23:        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               10          ..       ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (:of population)                    ,,         ,,        79
Illiteracy (% of population agr 15+)                     17         4         11
Gross primaryenronment (% of school-ase population)     105       100        108    ~      '7urkey
Male                                                  107       101                   ---------- Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                102        99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            60.9     87.3      190.7     196.8
Gross domestic investment(GDP                .19.9     25         25.1      24.6
Exports of qoods and serylces/GDP              3.7     15.6       24.6      24.8                     Trade
Gross domestic svinqs/GDP                     13.3     23.5       19.3      21.1
Gross national savinus/GDP                    16.2     26.6       23.8      26.7
Current account batancetGDP                   -5.2     -0.9       -2.4       0.3 3     omestic
Interest paymentstGDP                          0.3      2.2        1.7       1:7     Domestc                     investment
Total debtUGDP                                18.8     46.9       47.8  15.4          Savings
Total debt service/exPorts                    29.1     35.5       20.2      2f.6
Present value of debtlGOP                       ..:      ..       43.3
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    146.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1986-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annuai growth)
GDP                                  4.0       4.3      7.7        2.8       5.0:               Turkey
GNP per capita                       1.4       2.8      6.9        2.3       3.6         --------- Upper-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services          ..    10.4      19.1       10.5       6.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment 1%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           4-
Agriculture                                   31.4     18.3       15.1      17.6
Industry                                      21.5     31.8       28.2      25.4     20
Manufacturing                               13.6      20.2      18.3       16.1      a         _                -
Services                                      47.0     49.9       56.7      57.0    -20      93          95   96   sr   9B
Private consumDtion                           74.9     68.7       68.4      66.3    -40
General qovernment consumption                11.8      7.8       12.3      12.6                     D1    --GDP
Imports of goods and services                 10.3     17.8       30.4      28.2
(average annuale/rowth)                  11977-87  1988-98       1997       1998     Growth rates of exports and Import (#)
Agriculture                                    0.9      1.3       -2.2       7.0    40
Industry                                       5.3      5.1        9.2       1.8    20
Manufacturinq                                5.5       6.0      11.2        1.8
Services                                       3.8      4.3        6.9       3.3      D       3 I             e    9    98
Private consumption                             ..      4.5       10.9      -3.1 '   20           IV
General government consumption                  ..      3.5        4.1       5.0
Gross domestic investment                       ..      5.4        5.8       9.3
Imports of goods and services                   ..    11.8        22.4       2.2    1           -Exports        eImports
Gross national product                         3.8      4.5        8.6       3.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-grouo average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 64 -



Turkey
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Dorrstk prices
(% change)                                                                       120
Consumer prices                                                85.6      83.7     s
Implicit GDP deflator                       23.7    33.6       81.2      74.2     40
Govenmen,t flnance
(% of GDP, includes current qrants)
Current nvenue                                 ..    22.6      23.4      24.7            93   94   96   ss   97
Current budget balance                        ..      5.7      -0.8      -1.4                  GDP deflator  _"*CPI
Overall surplus/defit                         ..    -6.1       -8.7      -8.9
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ miNlionsJ
Total exports (fob)                        1,753   10,322    26,799   27,531      0o,o0o
Textiles                                   314    3,316      9,894   10,487
Processed agricultural products            889    1,826      2,578    2,130    40000
Manufactures                               126      270       970    1,033       . ,* * 
Total imports (cif)                        5,796   14,158    48,559   45,935              *iiiA           jA       d
Food                                        40      830      1,679    1,494    20,00
Fuel and energy                           1.544    3,275     6,093    4,499
Capltal goods                             1.979    3,956    11,277    11,036
Export price index (1995=100)                  .-     83         90       86            92  93  94  95  ss  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..     86         91       88                 Exports      K Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..     96         98       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio 1%)
(US$ mNilons)
Exports of goods and services              2,293   14,135    47,576   50,785      4
Imports of goods and servies               6,220   15,326    56,511    55,412
Resource balance                          -3,927   -1,191    -8,935   -4,627      2
Net income                                  -319   -2,005      -558      -481
Net current transfers                      1,107    2,390     4,866    5,727      0
Current account balance                   -3,139    -806      4,627      619    -2              94                   se
Financin items (net)                       2,772    1,775     7,971     -172
Changes in net reserves                      367    -969    -3,344      -447    .4
Meno:
Reserves including gold (US$ milions)         ..   5,494    27,168   29,506
Conversion rate (DEC, bcaIUS$)              18.0   856.3   151,239  259,627
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ miions)                                                                      Compostaon of total debt, 1998 (USS miliaons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      11,452   40,944    91,152   102,226                   A: 3.598
IBRD                                      512    6,290      3,587    3,598                            B: 112
IDA                                        181     170        118      112                                C:388
Total debt service                           954    5,981    11,349    13,198      G 27,23S                      E 8,077
IBRD                                       63      776        965      882
IDA                                         2        5          7        7
Compoeition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                             10      42         49       37
Offical creditors                         237      480       -121       34
Private creditors                         637    1,284    10,841      -153
Foreign direct investment                  27      106        554      573
Porfolio equity                              1      97      1,634   -6,386                               F: 59,904
World Bank program
Commitments                               144      957         35      956      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              165     787        266      424      B - IDA    D - Other muelateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       27      320        698      643      C - IMF                     G - Short-tenm
Netflows                                   138     467       -432     -219
Interest payments                          38      461        274      246
Net transfers                             100        7       -706     465
Development Economics                                                                                               9/8199
- 65 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
TURKEY: Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project
Stakeholder Analysis and Participatory Approach
1.    Introduction
1.     The long term survival of biodiversity can only be achieved if the socio-economic characteristics,
needs and aspirations of all stakeholders are properly taken into account in the management of biodiversity
and natural resources. Broad public involvement in project preparation and implementation will increase
local ownership and the likelihood that the project will be sustainable in the long run. Therefore,
participatory mechanisms that allow for increased stakeholder involvement in decision malcing and
implementation should be seen as necessary elements of successful biodiversity and natural resource
management projects.
2.     In order to achieve long term sustainability and ownership, the project aims to involve key
stakeholders at all stages of the project cycle. Accordingly, as part of project preparation, a stakeholder
analysis and an assessment of relevant socio-economic issues were undertaken to:
*   identify key stakeholders of the project at both national and local levels;
* determine the interests of key stakeholders with respect to biodiversity as well as their impacts
on natural resources in the project sites;
* identify the ways in which key stakeholders interact with each other;
* review local patterns of land and natural resource use and local socio-cultural
mechanisms/institutions that govern and influence these patterns;
* evaluate possible impacts of stakeholders on the project as well as potential negative
impacts of the project on key stakeholders; and
* identify opportunities for the project to benefit stakeholders through capacity building
in government agencies and NGOs, and through assisting local resource users to establish
sustainable resource management mechanisms.
3.     During project preparation, local consultants provided information and contributed to identification
of risks, impacts and mitigation strategies. The project has also been designed to ensure continued
stakeholder involvement throughout implementation via various participation mechanisms. A broad range
of stakeholder groups were consulted using several methods, including formal and semi-formal interviews,
group discussions, workshops, rapid rural appraisal and literature review. The list of stakeholders who
were consulted and/or participated in project preparation is presented in A4ttachrnent T.
2.     Socio-Economic Context for the Project
4.     The socio-economic context includes national level trends associated with economic growth,
liberalization and privatization, as well as local level issues associated with land ownership, resource
tenure, decentralization, organization and participation in the management of natural resources, and it can
significantly influence the nature of proposed project activities as well as the viability and long-term
success of the project. Consequently, the socio-economic context for the Biodiversity and Natural Resource
Management project has been evaluated and taken into account during project preparation.
2.1    National Socio-Economic Conditions
-66-



5.    Turkey has a population of 62.9 million (1997 Census). Population growth has fallen to below
1.5% per year from 1.9%/o in 1993, The deceleration in the birth rate since the 1950s is due to improvements
in education of women, migration to urban areas and wider use of modem birth-control practices. Infant
mortality has dropped to about 4% and life expectancy has soared to an estimated 66.5 years for men and
71.2 for women DPT, 1998. The population is still young with 50.5% aged 5-29 years and only 5% are
over 65 years in 1995.
6.    Although Turkey is considered an industrialized country, agriculture still accounts for almost 45%
of employment. Recently there has been a major migration from rural areas to urban centers. In 1997, the
urban population accounted for 65% of the total population, compared with 59% in 1990 and 27% in
1960. This increase in urbanization is largely due to recent rapid economic growth, one of the highest
among the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. Annual real GDP
growth averaged just over 4% in the 1980s and almost 5% in the 1990s. Although the economy suffered a
sharp contraction in 1994, it bounced back quickly, growing by 6.7% in 1995, 7.3% in 1996 and 7.6% in
1997.
7.    Economic growth, rising incomes and urbanization in Turkey has resulted in pressures on the
environment and has accelerated degradation of the natural resource base. It has also lead to increases in
demand for recreational and environunental services, especially among wealthier groups. Forest recreation,
for example, is currently estimated to account for 5.5 million visitors annually to national parks and other
categories of protected area. Comnmitments made by the Government under international agreements, such
as the Convention on Biodiversity, Desertification, Climate Change, and Ramsar (wetlands), have led to an
increase in public awareness of, and demands for nature conservation in general. In addition, along with
growing demands for recreation and nature conservation, the need for developing practical solutions to the
economic needs of poor rural populations is also being recognized.
8.    Implications for the Project: In the project sites, the local rural population has been declining due
to out-migration while demand for tourism by visitors has been increasing in accordance with the national
socio-economic trends. The project will build on growing public concems regarding biodiversity, natural
resources as well as the rural poor, and will enhance national capacity for sustainable biodiversity
conservation and management through collaborative participation of key national organizations, including
MoF, MoE, MoC, MARA, MoT and the academic and NGO communities.
2.2   Local Socio-economic Conditions
9.    According to 1997 census data, 3.2 million people in Turkey live in forest villages, and another 5.1
million live in forest-neighboring villages. This equals 15% of Turkey's total and 48% of its rural
population. The average population in forest villages is less than 800, with regional variations from 498
along the coast of the Black Sea region, to 1,100 people in the plateaus of the Mediterranean region.
Between 1975 and 1990, the population in about 95% of forest villages has shrunk due to poor economic
conditions and a high rate of out-migration, particularly of the younger generation. This has led to a
decrease in the available work force in these villages. Elderly persons ( older than 60) now make up 14%
of the total forest population. Since most migrants are men, there is a disproportionately high female
population in most forest villages. Overall in Turkey, only 9% of household heads are female, while 24%
of families in forest villages are female headed households.
10.   Forest villages are poorer than other Turkish villages with poverty indicators far below national
averages. With respect to land ownership, where the national average is 64 da per household, regional
averages for forest villages are 20 da in the Black Sea region, 24 da in the Mediterranean region, and 28 da
- 67 -



in the Aegean region. The most important sources of income in forest villages are farming, livestock raising
and horticulture. Families earn about one third of their income from farming and another third from raising
livestock. Poverty is particularly pronounced in mountain villages where land for agriculture and pasture is
severely limited.
11.   Infrastructure in most forest villages is inadequate. One third of roads in forest areas are dirt paths
which limit access to local markets, and villagers have problems gaining access to irrigation and drinking
water. While most forest villages have schools, interviews with residents indicate that the quality of
education is low and most teachers do not work continuously. In addition, there is a lack of access to higher
education, which accelerates permanent or seasonal out-migration from forest villages, especially among
the younger generation. Forest villagers also complain about the unreliability and unavailability of health
services. Although MOF, ORKOY and the General Directorate of Rural Services, provide funding for
housing, infrastructure, and maintenance work, these funds are inadequate to bring all the necessary
infrastructure to the villages.
12.    The most important benefit villagers derive from forests is wood for heating and cooking. It is
estimated that 58% of the forest village population depends solely on the forest for energy. Although
forests also provide various other values, only a small proportion of forest villagers derive direct financial
benefits from forests. According to surveys of forest villages, average annual household incomes earned
from the forest amount to $349 in the Black Sea region (18% of total income), $274 in the Mediterranean
region (14%) and $285 in the Aegean region (11%).
13.   In Turkey, most PAs are located in forested areas, of which 99% belong to and are managed by the
State. According to the Constitution of Turkey, the ownership of forest land may not be transferred and the
management and exploitation of forests are the responsibility of the State. The state assumed responsibility
for afforestation and management of forest lands in 1945. This, however, created unintended problems in
the later decades, especially from private forest owners and villagers who lived within or near forests. In
general, it has reduced the incentive for villagers to use forests sustainably since they have lost their sense
of ownership over forest resources and do not have legal capacity to prevent others from using them.
Moreover, poor land tenure records and incomplete forest cadastre in general, contribute to the uncertainty
regarding land ownership and use rights, leading to disputes not only between individuals, but also among
neighboring communities and different government agencies. Consequently, forest fires and illegal cutting
of forests have increased since 1945, leading to massive biodiversity loss.
14.    Key issues that shape the local socio-economic context include: unemployrnent; lack of clarity as
regards rights to use natural resources, leading to unsustainable resource use; lack of local participation in
resource management; poor access markets for local produce; and lack of availability of credit to support
development of income generating activities.
15.   Implications for the Project: In the project sites, with the exception of Sultan Sazligi wetlands, all
villages are classified as forest villages by Turkish Law and share the general socio-economic
characteristics of forest villages. Moreover, in all project sites, there are uncertainties and conflicts
regarding land ownership and user rights. For examnple, in Sultan Sazligi, villagers own 160,000 da of land
inside the PA, including private land and treasury land allocated for grazing. PA status of the wetlands
prevents the villagers from developing their land or selling it; they are only permitted to cultivate. Since
ownership is no longer secure, villagers manage their land to maximize short-term gains, with little regard
for long-term productivity. Therefore, wherever possible, the project will support clarification of land
ownership and use rights and development of economic opportunities for key stakeholders that are linked
with project objectives, and it will encourage participatory management schemes for shared resources, such
- 68 -



as pastures, reeds and non-wood forest products.
3.    Socio-economic Situation and Resource Use in the Project Sites
3.1    Demographic Trends in the Project Sites
16.   In all project sites, lack of access to credit, inadequate infrastructure, and lack of employment
opportunities have contributed to an increase in migration of young people to bigger towns and cities in
search ofjobs. For example, from 1990 to 1997, the population in most villages in Sultan Sazligi has
declined around 20 - 30%/c. The following table summarizes the current demographics of the project sites:
Table 1: Estimated Population Figures
Project Site         Settlements        Number of            Total Population   Female
Households                             Population
Sultan Sazligi       6 villages, 2 towns   1,871             9,352             45%
Igneada              2 villages, 1 town    770               2,845             43%
Camili               6 villages         350                  1,284             49%
Koprulu Kanyon       7 villages         1,179                5,132             55%
3.2    Land Use in the Project Sites
17.   Except in Sultan Sazligi, forests cover most of the area in the project sites, followed by pastures.
Cultivated areas are relatively small. The following table provides a breakdown of land types in the project
sites:
Table 2: Land Use
Project Site      Total Land Area (ha)  Cultivated Area Forest Area Wetlands  Pastures
Sultan Sazligi    314,961              17%            N/A         27%         26%
Igneada           25,076               11%             85%         N/A        2%
Camili            25,258.5             0.2%            65%        0.03%       28%
Koprulu Kanyon   21,494.5              9%              90%         N/A       N/A
3.3    Resource Use in the Project Sites
18.   Sultan Sazligi: Key economic activities include agriculture, poplar plantations, pumice mining,
sheep and cattle grazing, and reed cutting. Average annual income per household in the villages within the
PA ranges from $700 to $1500. Wheat, oats and alfalfa, barley, rye, various fruits, sugar beet, string
beans, sunflower, and clover are produced. Livestock breeding is also a major economic activity. The
marshes are used for grazing and fodder supply. Reed cutting is another economic activity, especially for
poorer households with small areas to cultivate. Another economic activity, pumice mining takes place at
the foothills of Erciyes Mountain.
19.   Growing interest in eco-tourism and especially bird watching as well as local efforts to conserve
the wetlands have brought about a slight increase in visitors to Sultan Sazligi. However, overall economic
-69 -



impact of 2-3,000 annual visitors to Sultan Sazligi is low and limited to a few local bed & breakfasts and a
small-scale boat trip business. Moreover, illegal hunting continues in the wetlands, damaging wildlife and
wildlife habitats. There are also small scale industrial facilities in nearby towns (with total population near
100,000). Most waste water outflows from these facilities are released into the wetlands without any
treatment, contributing to the degradation of wildlife habitats in the wetlands.
20.   Koprulu Kanyon: Key economic activities in Koprulu Kanyon include forestry, agriculture, sheep
and cattle grazing, bee keeping, tourism, cotton picking and non-wood forest product harvesting. All
villages grow wheat, barley, oats and corn, but some also produce cotton and sesame, and have
greenhouses for vegetable production. There is a considerable number of livestock in the region including
an estimated 22,000 goats that graze inside the PA. There are also about 1 100 beehives in the villages
within the PA. There are many nomadic families who pass, with their herds, through Koprulu Kanyon
during their seasonal moves between coastal plains and the yaylas. In general, average annual household
incomes differ from village to village and range from US$1000 to US$3000.
21.    Since 1993, logging has not been allowed in Koprulu Kanyon. However, despite the logging ban,
timber is cut illegally in response to demands from the coastal plain for furniture and building materials as
well as for fuel wood, which is the main source of energy for all villages. Since the ban, local people have
been exploring new possibilities to earn income. Some have started to collect and sell herbs (Salvia sativa -
sage, Cistus salvifolia - sage leaf rockrose, Thymus sp. - thyme, Origanum vulgare - oregano) in the
forests. Additional but relatively marginal income is generated through honey production and collection of
chestnuts and walnuts. Although hunting is illegal within the PA, poaching continues.
22.   Tourism is also a source of income for villages within the PA. The ruins of the ancient city of
Selge are located within the PA and operated by MoC. They are degraded by public use, illegal
construction and inappropriate restoration, but continue to be an attraction to tourists whose visits to the
area generate income for local villagers. Rafting is another source of income related to tourism; however,
only about 10% of total revenue from rafting is retained in the area. Indirect benefits to the local
communities from tourism include income from labor, transport, restaurants and shops. Currently, no fees
are collected by the Government from rafting companies. Additionally, rafting operators pay no rent, nor do
they have leases or permission to construct buildings or operate businesses within the PA. There are
conflicts within and between villages as well as with outside rafting operators regarding control of rafting
activities.
23.   Igneada: The main economic sectors in the Igneada settlements are forestry, fishing, livestock,
tourism, and reed cutting. It is estimated that the average annual household income in Igneada is about
US$ 4,000. Agriculture is not a major activity in the villages, although com, wheat, beans and vegetables
are grown for home consumption. Most households in the villages keep livestock, including goats, sheep
and cows. Generally, livestock is grazed in the forest during summer months and is stall-fed indoors in the
winter. The majority of the 'working population' (about 930 people) are employed by the District
Directorate of Forestry as contract laborers in timber harvesting. All villages also have poplar plantations
that are scattered throughout the forest, some on privately owned land and some on illegally occupied land.
Local people also cut reeds in the wetlands, mostly for their own consumption. Hunting affects the whole
site and is regarded by many as a traditional recreational activity and not as a way to increase household
economic revenues. For land-owners, hunting wild boar is a way to reduce crop damages. In addition,
outsiders from big cities (mainly Istanbul) come to Igneada for sport hunting.
24.   Tourism is quite important for the economy of Igneada. There are an estimated 30,000 visitors per
year. The Tourism industry in the area is seasonal. Tourism along the coast occurs between June and
- 70 -



August. There are 529 secondary homes owned mostly by Turks residing in Istanbul, and more are being
built every year. There are also six bed & breakfasts and four government recreation facilities.
25.    Camili: Currently, in Camili, the most prominent economic activity is subsistence farming coupled
with small scale production of cash crops such as hazelnut, walnut and vegetables as well as bee keeping
and livestock rearing. In addition, communities receive income from relatives who live outside the area.
This income is critical especially for the elderly, which constitute the majority of the population. Some
households also earn money through seasonal labor activities outside the basin (but within the region), such
as tea picking and hazelnut harvesting. It is estimated that annual average household incomes in Camili
range from US$700 to US$1000.
26.   In general, the area is isolated and underdeveloped. The critical constraint to economic
development is lack of year-round access to markets. The road to Borgka, the closest town, is in very poor
condition, often destroyed by avalanches, and is normally closed by snow for up to seven months per year.
Such poor access limits economic activities that can be pursued in the basin and causes under-employment.
Poor access also means that agricultural extension services seldom reach the basin and government
employees refuse to be posted to the area. Therefore, production practices do not improve and
out-migration is exacerbated. The situation is made worse by erratic electricity supply, especially in
winter. Additionally, lack of land registration certificates prevents farmers from securing loans. Since the
basin is located along the Georgian border and is a military zone, special permission is required for entry
and it is difficult for non-villagers to visit the area.
27.    On the other hand, poor access has preserved the cultural integrity of the local people, as well as
the natural integrity of the environment. If a major road had been constructed, it is likely that much of the
forest would have been destroyed by timber exploitation. Also, increased out-migration due to poor access
and socio-economic conditions has prevented large scale development of the area and has resulted in less
intensive use of natural resources in the basin. In Camili, local communities use forest resources only to
sustain their livelihood: chestnut and lime tree flowers are the main source of food for bees; houses and
furniture are made with chestnut; beech provides fuelwood which is the main source of energy, and fodder
for cattle and shelters bee hives; yayla wooden refuges and roof tiles are made with spruce. People hunt
wildlife for meat and to control damage to agricultural fields, livestock and beehives. The communities
recognize that forest cover protects their land against landslides and their settlements against avalanches
and thus, they are opposed to any large-scale forest logging within their valleys. Currently, there is no
forest production in Camili. Most forests in upper valleys remain untouched and are considered pristine.
Forest preservation has been possible because human population has always been scarce in this area.
Another reason is the customary land tenure system, where forest land belongs to the state, but local people
have the usufruct of land around their houses, including forest stands which are shared by villages. Each
village also has an allocated area of meadow in the high plateau (yayla) for summer grazing.
4.     Stakeholder Groups
28.    The project sites are characterized by multiple use of natural resources by a broad range of
stakeholders, and a long history of agro-pastoral and forestry activities. Key stakeholders include: (a)
Government institutions and agencies at the national, regional and local levels (including MoF, MoE,
Ministries of Agriculture, Tourism, etc.); (b) the academic community and research institutes; (c) local
residents and resource users (farmers, shepherds, forest users, reed cutters, rafting operators); (d) national
and local NGOs; (e) tourists; and (f) local businesses and industries. Each of these stakeholder groups has
specific interests and needs related to resource use and control, and, will therefore, be affected differently
by the project.
- 71 -



29.    Three different groupings of stakeholders are described below. These include: (i) stakeholders
most able to influence the project; (ii) those who are most affected by the project; and (iii) those who have a
potential to contribute to the project. The project's response to each stakeholder's influence on the project is
also described. An analysis of these stakeholders is provided below.
4.1    Stakeholders Most Able to Influence the Project
30.   This group includes decision makers at national and local levels; those who have significant
influence regarding decision making; and those with legal responsibility for biodiversity conservation,
natural resource management and/or PAs.
31.   Ministry of Forestry (MoF): MoF's responsibilities include protection, improvement and
maintenance of forests, prevention of erosion, restoration of pastures within forests, promotion and
establishment of nurseries, development of forest villages, improvement of the relationship between forests
and villagers, production of raw timber material, and management of protected areas. MoF is composed of
three core service units: the General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion Control (GDAEC) General
Directorate of Forest and Village Relations (ORKOY), General Directorate of National Parks, Game and
Wildlife (GDNP). Another related institution under MoF is the General Directorate of Forestry (GDF).
Most forest land in Turkey is managed by GDF through a system of regional directorates, with forest
districts as the basic operational unit. Both MoF and GDF are organized regionally. Conservation forests,
nature parks, nature reserves, national parks, wildlife conservation areas, and recreation areas are under
the direction of GDNP and occupy only 2.6 percent of the forest area.
32.   MoF has a centralized and hierarchical structure. Forest management plans are prepared with little
involvement of local stakeholders. MoF's traditional approach to forest management tends to emphasize
conventional wood production priorities over alternative uses of forest resources. Consequently, the project
will demonstrate the importance of participatory processes and decentralized management while building
the capacity of MoF's GDNP, GDF and the regional directorates to plan and lead biodiversity
conservation. This will be achieved through provision of training and equipment to support implementation
of national level project activities, including replication of project experience throughout the country.
33.   Ministry of Environment (MoE): The role of MoE is to coordinate all environmental affairs in
Turkey, but it is also assigned jurisdictional and operational responsibilities for protecting the environment
in Turkey. For example, MoE, through its General Directorate for Environmental Protection (GDEP), has
jurisdiction over Turkey's wetlands and endangered species. (This conflicts with MoF's responsibility over
wetlands and wildlife within forests and national parks.) However, MoE is centrally organized and does not
have local presence in rural areas, including the project sites. Therefore, MoE will be most influential at the
national level during project implementation. It will play a crucial role in the coordination of project
components regarding improvement of the legal framework for biodiversity conservation and the
establishment of a nationwide public awareness campaign. The project will provide training and equipment
to build MoE's capacity to act as the coordinator of these activities and effectively implement its national
mandate with respect to biodiversity conservation.
34.   Ministry of Culture (MoC): The responsibility of MoC is to preserve natural and cultural values in
Turkey for the benefit of future generations. The ministry operates via the General Directorate of Cultural
and Natural Entities Conservation (GDCNEC), High Council of Cultural and Natural Entities
Conservation and its 17 regional commissions. The regional commissions are responsible for identifying
areas of cultural and natural significance as well as establishing and implementing protection measures in
- 72 -



these areas. All government agencies (including municipalities) are required to follow the instructions of
these commissions regarding management of these areas. In three of the project sites, there are areas which
have been identified as natural and cultural protection sites. Since the decisions of the MoC overrides those
of any other agency within these areas, MoC emerges as a very important stakeholder in these three sites.
Therefore, the project will not only ensure MoC's active participation in the project activities, but it will
also provide training and equipment to MoC in order to build its capacity to effectively participate in
biodiversity conservation activities in these sites and also at the national level.
35.   Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs): There are many national and international NGOs
involved in different aspects of biodiversity in Turkey, including conservation and protection of forests and
biodiversity, development and management of forests and natural resource bases, and rural development. In
many cases, NGOs play a big role in protecting a resource base from destruction and publicizing the
concerns of forest villagers. The project will ensure the active participation of NGOs in project activities at
both national and local levels. It will also benefit from the knowledge and experience of NGOs through
workshops and consultations, and provide training and technical support to NGOs on biodiversity
management.
36.    Tourists/Tourism Industry: With rapid urbanization, demands for recreational activities have
shown a significant increase in Turkey. One estimate shows that about 10-million people per year visit the
428 forest recreation sites covering 15,946 hectares under the management of GDNP. Another study finds
that eco-tourism is booming in several regions including the Mediterranean and Aegean regions. For
example, in Alanya district of Antalya province, there are six to seven private eco-tourism companies
which take over 20,000 visitors per year to mountain and forest areas. These figures indicate that tourists
are emerging as important stakeholders in the management of PAs. If uncontrolled, tourism development
can be extremely damaging to biodiversity. However, if managed properly, tourism can emerge as a
biodiversity friendly income generating opportunity for local communities in and around the PAs.
Consequently, the project will support the development of such activities in the project sites via provision
of small grants, training and guidance. It will also monitor local tourism developments and encourage
environmentally responsible tourism via public awareness programs and economic tools such as user fees.
37.   Media: Media in Turkey has so far been very marginally involved in covering and promoting
biodiversity and natural resource management issues. However, it has the potential to contribute greatly to
raising public awareness on these issues. The project, through national and local public awareness
programs, will encourage larger media coverage of biodiversity issues as well as PA management in an
effort to publicize the importance of sustainable biodiversity and natural resource management.
4.2    Stakeholders Most Affected by the Project
38.   These stakeholders include villagers, herders, land owners, village heads/mayors, beekeepers,
tourists and visitors, local NGOs, local small enterprises and cooperatives, harvesting companies, hunters
and hunting associations. This group is likely to be impacted both negatively (e.g. through loss of access to
resources) and positively (e.g. through provision of new opportunities for income generation). The project
will mitigate possible negative impacts on these stakeholders by establishing mechanisms to generate flow
of benefits in a manner that is in line with project objectives.
39.   Local resource users: These groups include local landowners, herders, farmers, foresters,
beekeepers, and reed cutters. Key resource uses include land, water, wood and non-wood forest products,
meadows, and reeds. The primary issues of interest for local communities associated with the project are
access to resources, employment and income generation. These groups will voice their interests, concerns
- 73 -



and preferences regarding these issues via the Sustainable Use Committees that will be established in each
project site. They will also be eligible to apply for small grants that will support biodiversity friendly
resource use practices.
40.    Local Government (including village heads/muhtars and mayors): Although local governments
have the potential to influence the project and will participate in its implementation, they will primarily be
impacted by the project. The establishment of PAs within their jurisdiction may result in direct access to
income generating resources such as grazing fees on meadows or potential private development. The
project may also result in a decline in their power as mechanisms for decentralized decision making are put
in place. They may also experience difficulty in balancing constituent demands with PA objectives. To help
mitigate these impacts, the project will a) target local authorities through public awareness programs to
raise their understanding of the long-term benefits of sustainable resource use and the potential for
economic benefit through project activities, such as eco-tourism and the Small Grants Program, and b)
involve them in the development and implementation of project activities.
41.    Local NGOs: Local NGOs exist in all project sites. These NGOs are capable of initiating and
undertaking a variety of PA management activities, such as education, public awareness, tourism
monitoring, restoration and rehabilitation of trails, fund-raising, etc. In addition, they can be instrumental in
developing public interest and participation in local environmental issues. To support increased
involvement of NGOs in PA management, the project will support capacity building in local NGOs and
provide opportunities for them to participate constructively in PA management and public awareness
programs.
42.    Hunters and Hunting Associations: In general, hunting is a popular activity in Turkey. One
estimate indicates that there are over one million licensed hunters and three million unlicensed hunters in
Turkey. In Antalya alone, there are two hunting tourism firms who organize regular safari tours for foreign
hunters in designated hunting grounds. Similar formal or informal hunting associations exist in all project
sites. Therefore, the project will put in mechanisms to monitor their activities and involve them in project
implementation in order to prevent over-exploitation of game and wildlife and illegal hunting practices
within the PAs.
4.3    Stakeholders with a Potential to Contribute to the Project
43.   Industry: Forest industry has a significant role in the sustainable use and management of forest
resources. According to an evaluation made in 1988, based on total production value, the forest products
industry is ninth among 34 manufacturing industries. The incorporation of biodiversity concerns to forest
management plans by the project may lead to possible reductions in domestic production of timber and
other forest products. If this happens, the industry may be forced to import raw materials and in situations
where this proves to be costly, it may try to force MoF to increase domestic production. Therefore, the
project will involve the industry as a stakeholder in project implementation and include it as a key target of
the public awareness programs.
44.    Research institutions and universities: Research in biodiversity and forestry is vital for identifying
issues and devising mechanisms to resolve these issues. The nine universities with forestry faculties and 11
research directorates of MoF have a major role in providing these functions and are already involved in
such efforts, like the Forestry Research Master Plan that was recently developed and is currently being
implemented. Research institutions and universities will play a role in this project by providing expertise
and a knowledge-base for design and monitoring of PA management plans and sustainable resource use
practices. They will also participate in the project's public awareness and education components.
- 74 -



45.    Other government agencies: Many other government agencies are stakeholders of the project and
may be able to contribute to the project since they are involved in the provision of basic services to the
project sites as well as national level planning. These agencies include: the State Hydraulic Works (DSI);
Ministry of Defense (MoD), General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS), Ministry of Finance (MoF),
Ministry of Education (MoED), Treasury, Ministry of Interior (MoI), State Planning Organization (SPO),
Ministry of Reconstruction and Settlements (MRS), General Directorate for Roads and Highways
(GDRH), Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Institute of Mineral Exploration (MTA), Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), General Directorate for Agricultural Reform (GDAR), Ministry of
Tourism (MoT), and Turkish Radio and Television (TRT). The project will involve these agencies in
project implementation via workshops and working groups, and will target them through public awareness
programs.
5.     Participation Mechanisms
46.   At present, local and national level stakeholders have little experience in decentralized planning
and management of resources. Consequently, the project will foster decentralization of responsibility from
the national to the local level and will develop management processes that facilitate the participation of key
stakeholder groups, including NGOs. The project will provide the following opportunities for participation:
a) decision making, e.g. through establishment of Protected Area Management Authorities
(PAMAs), Advisory Committees and Councils, working groups, Village Councils, etc.;
b) canacity building, e.g. through the provision of training for: (i) PAMA staff to acquire new
skills such as conflict resolution, integrated resource management, community participation, public
awareness, and communication, etc.; and (ii) NGOs and local stakeholders to implement project
activities;
c) raising stakeholder awareness of conservation needs and of opportunities to participate in
and /or to support project activities.
d) establishing and supporting new opportunities for employment and income generation that are
linked to the objectives of the project, including: (i) sustainable use of natural resources, including
grazing and forest products; (ii) provision of small grants to support conservation compatible
activities; (iii) employment of local individuals; and (iv) engagement of local NGOs and small
commercial enterprises in PA management activities.
47.   Further development of the project, including identification of training needs and economic
development opportunities that will be supported by the project, will be undertaken in a participatory
manner through decision making mechanisms that the project will establish at the national and local levels.
These mechanisms for stakeholder participation are described below and outlined in Attachment 2.
5.1    National Level Participation in Decision Making
48.   The Project Advisory Committee (PAC) will be responsible for providing project oversight advice
and assistance in resolving project implementation issues. The committee will provide the opportunity for
all stakeholders to participate in project implementation and it will be responsible for providing project
oversight advice, inter-ministerial coordination and assistance in resolving issues associated with
implementation. It will be established by MoF and will consist of experts from MoF, MoE, MoC, MARA,
- 75 -



MoT, and NGOs. The Deputy Under Secretary of Forestry will chair PAC.
49.   The Biodiversity Legal and Policy Review Committee (BLPRC) will be responsible for preparing
a strategy for rationalization of the legal and policy framework for biodiversity conservation. It will review
conservation legislation, together with all overlapping sectoral legislation and policy, and other legislation
impacting on biodiversity.
It will develop a detailed implementation plan to rationalize and improve the legal framework. It will also
prepare proposed amendments to sectoral policy, legislation and regulations. This committee will be
coordinated and chaired by MoE's General Directorate for Environmental Protection (GDEP). Its members
will include MoF, MoE, MoC, MARA, DSI, MoT, GDF, MRS, Mol, MENR, MTA, GDRS, the academic
community and NGOs. The committee
will establish a working group composed of technical personnel from MoE, MoF and MoC. The technical
group will develop, and BLPRC will approve the ToR for a consultant to facilitate the legal and policy
review. The participatory process will include: a) workshop review by BLPRC of a draft issues paper; b)
preparation of a draft report; c) workshop review by BLPRC draft report; d) publication and distribution of
the final report, including recommendations and proposed implementation plan to relevant ministries; and e)
final press conference.
50.   The Biodiversity Integration Committee (BIC) will develop mechanisms to integrate biodiversity
conservation to forest management plans. BIC will be housed, coordinated and chaired by GDF and will be
composed of representatives from GDF, MoF, GDRS, GDNP, MoE, Chamber of Forest Engineers as well
as consultants and academicians. The committee will develop ToRs and supervise consultants who will
review forest management planning regulations and prepare a draft proposal to integrate biodiversity
conservation into forest management planning, both at the national level and at selected demonstration sites.
The findings and recommendations of the study will be reviewed by a broad range of forestry sector
stakeholders, leading to a prioritized, phased strategy to incorporate biodiversity in forest management
plans. Pilot multi-functional forest planning management teams will be established and trained to
mainstream biodiversity conservation in forest management planning. The teams will include expertise in
forest biodiversity, forest ecology, socio-economics, forestry and silviculture.
5.2    Local Level Participation in Decision Making
51.   Protected Area Advisory Councils (ACs) will be established at each site to ensure the
participation of all local stakeholders in the implementation of project activities and the sustainable
management of natural resources within and around the PAs. ACs will guide PAMAs as well as
coordinate the sustainable management of the buffer zones around the PAs. They will also provide a
platform for the discussion of conflicts regarding the PAs and will help PAMAs resolve problems. ACs will
be chaired by the local Regional Directorate of National Parks and membership will include local
representatives from MoF, MoE, MoC, MoT, DSI and other local govemment agencies as well as
representatives of the local communities such as muhtars, teachers, religious figures, local NGOs, and
representatives of Sustainable Resource Use Committees (SRUC). Representatives of the local
communities will convene among themselves at least once a month to discuss local issues and priorities to
bring to the attention of ACs in general. ACs will convene once every three months to make decisions
regarding local concems and issues related to the PA management. It is envisioned that within each AC, a
Working Group for PA Friendly Activities (WGPFA) will be established for the execution of the Small
Grants Program (SGP) in each site. This working group will have at least one representative from each
SRUC in the site. It will also have representation from the site's PAMA.
52.   The feasibility of establishing local Protected Area Conservation and Promotion Foundations
- 76 -



(PACPF) in all project sites will be assessed during the first year of project implementation. Foundations
could be established with the guidance of the ACs and would contribute to the financial sustainability by
providing a mechanisms for recycling PA generated revenues for use in PA management. Foundations
could operate as independent NGOs and would receive all or a large portion of the income generated from
entrance fees, user fees, souvenir sales, etc. As they become financially stronger, PACPFs may initiate
small grant or micro-finance programs, targeting local communities, to support environmentally sustainable
activities in and around the PAs. They would also help fund the Awards and Intemship Programs that
could be executed by ACs. A working example of such a foundation exists in Uludag National Park.
53.   Sustainable Resource Use Committees (SRUCs) will be created at each project site in order to
establish mechanisms to facilitate sustainable use of local natural resources in line with PA management
plans. The mandate and membership of SRUCs will be established following baseline assessment of shared
resource use to be undertaken during the first year of project implementation. Categories of SRUCs are
likely to include: Grazing Committees (GC), Reed Committees (RC), Eco-tourism Committees (EC), and
Non-wood Forest Products Committees (NWC). The members of these committees will be muhtars,
representatives of village associations and resource users who will be elected by villagers on a bi-annual
basis. The committees will elect their chairpersons and set up working groups. They will meet once a
month to discuss local resource use issues and priorities to bring to the attention of ACs in general. They
will also elect their representatives to ACs. They will focus on issues related to resource use in and around
PAs and meet regularly to (i) discuss concerns raised by resource owners and users; (ii) participate in the
development of resource use management plans (iii) ensure the implementation of resource management
plans; (iv) establish objectives for the SGP for various different king of resource uses; (v) give
recommendations to WGPFAs regarding allocations for different types of grants, application procedures
for grants, deadlines for announcement, application, review and award of grant funds; and (iv) monitor the
impact of grant activities.
5.3    Small Grants Program
54.   The project will help facilitate development of mechanisms to catalyze the establishmnent of
conservation-linked income generating activities. Establishment of a Small Grants Program (SGP) may be
one such mechanism. A SGP would financially support participation of local communities in the
sustainable use of natural resources and contribute toward mitigation of potential economic losses
associated with restricted access to natural resources resulting from the implementation of PA management
plans. It would provide resources and incentives for individuals, community based organizations,
cooperatives, and NGOs to carry out projects that reduce pressure on PA natural resources. It would target
sustainable resource use, including grazing, non-wood forest products collection, bee-keeping, eco-tourism
and other PA-friendly investment activities by local communities and other resource users. It is envisioned
that WGPFAs within ACs would determine the appropriate types of grant, and define eligibility criteria,
procedures for application and monitoring of grant funded activities at each site within the first year of the
project. It would also review applications and select projects. Grants would be disbursed by PAMAs.
Specific arrangements for SGP would be agreed upon during the first year of project implementation.
Options for grant types include:
a) Seed grants that would support the start of new activities to reduce the pressures on natural
resources inside the PAs and to build local support for the PAs;
b) Matching grants that would support park friendly developments undertaken by a local partner or
organization that contributes no less than 50% of the overall cost of the initiative. Eligibility would
include provision of a memorandum confirming and detailing the budget and work plan for the
- 77 -



grant and the matching contribution;
c) Micro-enterprise grants that would support applicants who are pursuing business activities that
support PA management plan objectives, provide an equitable share of benefits to local
stakeholders, and are technically and financially feasible and culturally acceptable.
5.4    Other Programs
55.    An annual Awards Program will be established by ACs to publicly acknowledge and encourage
locally initiated and designed sustainable resource use practices. Nominations will be made by community
members via the SRUCs in each village. Both individuals and groups will be eligible for nomination.
WGPFAs within ACs will determine the appropriate types of awards, and define eligibility criteria as well
as procedures for application at each site within the first year of the project. They will also review the
nominations and select the winners. The awards program will be initially funded by the project. It is
envisioned that funding by PACPF at each site will be available once these foundations are successfully
established and functional.
56.    An Internship/PA Fellows Program will be established by the PAMAs in order to increase
awareness of PAs and project objectives. Students and researchers from local/national universities as well
as local community members who would like to learn about biodiversity conservation, and gain experience
in conservation management in the PAs will be invited to work at the PAs on a volunteer basis for short
periods of time. PAMAs will determine the eligibility criteria as well as procedures for application for
intemships at each site within the first year of the project. They will also review the applications and select
the interns. The internship/PA fellows program will be initially funded by the project. It is envisioned that
funding will be available from the PACPF at each site once these foundations are successfully established
and functional.
- 78 -



Attachment 1 - List of Stakeholders Consulted and/or Participated in Project Preparation
L Government Agencies:
A. National
Prime Ministry (Undersecretariat of Treasury, State Planning Organization); Ministry of Forestry (General
Directorate of Forestry, General Directorate of National Park, Game and Wildlife, General Directorate of
Afforestation); Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (General Directorate of Rural Research);
Ministry of Environment (General Directorate of Environmental Protection); Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources (State Hydraulic Works), Ministry of Culture, TUBITAK.
B. Local
1. Sultan Sazligi: Governor; District Governor; Mubtars; Mayors; PAMA; Local Representatives
of General Directorate of Forestry, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of
Tourism, State Hydraulic Works, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs.
2. Camili: Ministry of Defense, District Governor; Muhtars; Local Representatives of General
Directorate of Forestry, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
3. Igneada: District Governor; Muhtars; Mayors; Local Representatives of General Directorate of
Forestry, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agricuiture and Rural
Affairs.
4. Koprulu Kanyon: Governor; District Governor; Muhtars; Mayors; PAMA; Local Reps. of
General Directorate of Forestry, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environ-ment, Ministry cf
Tourism, State Hydraulic Works, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs.
Mi. Non-governmental Organizations:
A. National
TEMA Foundation; Society for the Protection of Nature (DHKD); Turkish Development Foundation
(TKV); Society for the Protection of Turkish Nature.
B. Local
1. Sultan Sazligi: Kayseri Foundation for the Protection of Nature (DHKV\); Foundation for the Protection
of Sultan Sazligi (STKV), Irrigation Societies, Village Development Cooperatives
2. Camili: Macahel Foundation, Society for the Protection and Development of Cainili
C. International
World Bank
III. Private Sector:
1. Sultan Sazligi: TURSAB (Union of travel agents); Bremer Tourism; HIS & Brosman; Bed & Breakfast
owners; Boat Trip operators
2. Camili: Macahel Ltd.
3. Igneada: Restaurant and Bed & Breakfast owners
4. Koprulu Kanyon: Rafting companies; Restaurant owners; Tour operators
-79 -



Attachment 2 - Mechanisms for Key Stakeholder Participation in P  ect Activities
Stakeholder   Participation by Project Component  Mechanism for        Monitoring
Participation
MoF           1. Strengthen the National Framework   - Chair the Project  - Guidelines for PA
(GDF, GDNP) for Biodiversity Conservation        Advisory Committee    management plan
*  Strengthen institutional capacity to - Working Groups  development, boundary
develop national network of   - Workshops at        analysis and internal
protected areas               national level        zoning
* Establish a system to monitor the                    - Guidelines for forest
status of biodiversity                              management plans that
* Demonstrate how biodiversity                        incorporate biodiversity
issues can be incorporated in the                   and social concerns
forest management plans                             - minutes and reports
2. Develop prototypes for effective                     from workshops
protected area management
* Establish systems for sustainable
participatory planning and
management of four PAs
* Establish mechanisms for
sustainable resource management
in and around PAs
* Develop and implement strategy
for environmentally responsible
tourism at PAs linked with PA
conservation management
objective
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
MoE           1. Strengthen the National Framework   - Project Advisory  - Minutes and reports
(GDEP)        for Biodiversity Conservation      Committee             of Project Advisory
* Prepare a strategy for         - Chair Biodiversity    Committees and
rationalization of the legal  Legal and Policy      Protected Area
framework                     Review Committee      Advisory Councils
* Prepare and implement national   - Working Groups    - Reports of the
public awareness program      - Workshops at        working groups
2. Develop prototypes for effective  national level and at    - strategy and
protected area management          project sites        implementation plan to
* Establish systems for sustainable   - Protected Area  rationalize and improve
participatory planning and    Advisory Councils    the legal framework for
management of four PAs                              biodiversity
* Establish mechanisms for                             conservation
sustainable resource management                     - minutes and reports
in and around PAs                                   from workshops
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
- 80 -



MoC, MoF,    1. Strengthen the National Framework   - Working Groups   - Reports of the
MoT, MoPW,  for Biodiversity Conservation        - Workshops at the    working groups
MoE, MARA       * Prepare a strategy for         national level        - Minutes and reports
and other         rationalization of the legal   - Protected Area      from workshops
related            framework                     Advisory Councils at   - Minutes and reports
ministries      * Prepare and implement national   the local level     of Protected Area
public awareness program                            Advisory Councils
2. Develop prototypes for effective
protected area management
* Establish systems for sustainable
participatory planning and
management of four PAs
*  Establish mechanisms for
sustainable resource management
in and around PAs
* Develop and implement strategy
for environmentally responsible
tourism at PAs linked widh PA
conservation management
objective
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
Villagers,    2. Develop prototypes for effective  - Sustainable Resource  - Minutes and reports
Local Resource protected area management         Use Committees        from workshops
Users           * Establish systems for sustainable   - Small Grants   - Minutes and reports
(Herders,          participatory planning and    Program               of Sustainable
Farmers, Reed      management of four PAs                              Resource Use
Cutters,        * Establish mechanisms for                             Committee
Cooperative       sustainable resource management                      - Annual reports of
Members, etc.)    in and around PA                                     Small Grants Program
Local         2. Develop prototypes for effective  - Sustainable Resource  - Minutes and reports
Government   protected area management           Use Commnittees       from workshops
(Village Heads,  * Establish systems for sustainable   - Protected Area  - Minutes and reports
Village            participatory planning and    Advisory Council      of Sustainable
Council,           management of four PAs                              Resource Use
Mayors)         * Establish mechanisms for                             Committees
sustainable resource management                     - Minutes and reports
in and around PAs                                   from Protected Area
*  Develop and implement strategy                      Advisory Council
for environmentally responsible
tourism at PAs linked with PA
conservation m.anagement
objective
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
- 81 -



Local         2. Develop prototypes for effective  - Chair of the Protected - Minutes and reports
Governors     protected area management          Area Advisory Council of Protected Area
* Establish systems for sustainable   - Founding member of  Advisory Councils
participatory planning and    Protected Area        - Minutes and reports
management of four PAs        Conservation and      from workshops
*  Establish mechanisms for      Promotion Foundations - Minutes, reports and
sustainable resource management                     annual reports of
in and around PAs                                   Protected Area
*  Develop and implement strategy                      Conservation and
for environmentally responsible                     Promotion Foundations
tourism at PAs linked with PA
conservation management
objective
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
Tourists/     2. Develop prototypes for effective  - Fill out opinion  - Analysis of survey
Visitors      protected area management          surveys after visits to  results
* develop and implement strategy   the PAs             - Records of number of
for environmentally responsible    - Make financial  visitors
tourism at PAs linked with PA  contributions to the PA  - User/Entrance fees;
conservation management       - Attend educational    PA souvenir sales
objective                     activities organized by  - Donations by visitors
PAMAs                - Activity attendance
records
Tourism       2. Develop prototypes for effective  - Protected Area    - Minutes and reports
Operators,    protected area management          Advisory Council      of Protected Area
Local           * Establish mechanisms for       - Sustainable Resource  Advisory Council
Businesses         sustainable resource management  Use Committee (e.g.   - Minutes and reports
in and around PAs             eco-tourism           of Sustainable
* Develop and implement strategy   Committee)          Resource Use
for environmentally responsible    - Workshops in project Committee
tourism at PAs linked with PA  sites                - Minutes and reports
conservation management       - Working groups      from workshops
objective                     - Small Grants        - Annual reports of
* Develop awareness and support   Program              Small Grants Program
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
Hunting       2. Develop prototypes for effective  - Protected Area    - Minutes and reports
Associations   protected area management         Advisory Council      of Protected Area
* Establish mechanisms for                             Advisory Councils
sustainable resource management
in and around fPAs
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
- 82 -



NGOs          1. Strengthen the National Framework  -Project Oversight  - Minutes and reports
for Biodiversity Conservation      Cormmittee           of Project Advisory
* Prepare a strategy for         - Protected Area      Committee
rationalization of the legal  Advisory Council      - Minutes and reports
framework                     - Working Groups      of Protected Area
* Prepare and implement national   - Workshops at the  Advisory Council
public awareness programn     national level and at    - Minutes and reports
2. Develop prototypes for effective  project sites      of workshops
protected area management          - Contracted activities  - Working groups
* Establish systems for sustainable                   reports
participatory planning and                          - Contracted activities
management of four PAs
* Establish mechanisms for
sustainable resource management
in and around PAs
* Develop and implement strategy
for enviromnentally responsible
tourism at PAs linked with PA
conservation management
objective
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
Research      1. Strengthen the National Framework   - Project Advisory  - Minutes and reports
Institutes,   for Biodiversity Conservation      Committee             of Project Advisory
Universities    * Prepare a strategy for         - Working Groups      Committee
rationalization of the legal  - Contracted activities   - Minutes and reports
framework                     - Workshops at       of workshops
2. Develop prototypes for effective  national level and  - Working groups
protected area management          project sites        reports
* Establish systems for sustainable   - Internship/PA fellows - Evaluation of
participatory planning and    program               Internship/PA fellows
management of four PAs        - Scientific research in  program
* Establish mechanisms for       PAs                   - Scientific publications
sustainable resource management
in and around PAs
* Develop awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
Media         1. Strengthen the National Framework   - Press Conferences    - Press releases
for Biodiversity Conservation      - Workshops          - Minutes and reports
* Prepare and implement national   - Purchase of air time:  of workshops
public awareness program      Release of            - Frequency and
2. Develop prototypes for effective  documentaries on PAs  number of broadcasts
protected area management          and biodiversity on  of documentaries
* Develop awareness and support   various TV channels
for biodiversity conservation at
PAs
- 83 -






TURKEY
BIODIVERSITY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT PROJECT SITES
,0    50    100   150   200   2,5    300   350   AOO
KILOMETERS                                                                                    :t1 1
BULGAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                            A  aJ98    c   k        S    e   a   D
nti,a,    I,^,lgneado Protected Area                                                                                                          CmiliFo resORGIA
^t .Ed,rnr  ()   - ^  {Alluvial Forest and Wetland)                                                                                                    Management District
--'--5--.)                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Mix~ed TmeaeRain forest
s t-  d MNAA    zo '"t --- Ser  m  tjXR
j i < - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~an                                                                                            Apine  Eco  stem  w  >w)  , i    7       n 
Ie,rn                                                                                                                                                    Trnhnn-         nc       d sT                                    l
S                M  e d ~~~)orinter  r inne 5,ela  tn Se   aiei fKrn    ARMEN^fulU -e                                                                                  RVESrcWAd8k5w   W  uges                                                  t
~~~~>                                 Ylon t;'      ?:Z                                                                                      o men.   ruh-udoisJ
8                                              Tnn I                                                         3g             4    p;na  I                                                                                                    t5  r.i
(M-    D.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Na~                                          .
tMnhYncy  {~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~
'-~~~~~ns,   2   'Kh  .                                 TnnnoI,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~K
--W                                                               A,nye~~Slneadony                                                        E                                                                     ER,
WA~ oe  -2                                                                                                                                                                            -'A
N.-f-   K.y-ninnn A.ynn                                                                 Snk70okn 
F  ter Eco yltems)      So ert
~nin~5n  As~itpra  a~ Cyrus Forest,                                                                           >.
(A~~y    ~   SYRIAN  ARAB  REP.
Thus mop -se prod-ced by the
NOTE Tb. nueheu ~t  MAJOR FORESTED AREAS             Map Dos;9n Unit of The WeId Banb.
NOTE Th. -b., d  MAJOR FORESTED AREAS              ~~~Th. he-deries, colors, deno.inintioni
p-eina- Ahoe o- thi~              PROVINCE CAPITALS                  end -nyoth.r informotion iho-nen
nnp n-n tnrih-n ih                                                    this mop de not imply, en the pert of 
nOn on,b.-s.i            @    NATIONAL CAPITAL                    Th   el in   rep  n  udgnn 
dole en.. i .in hndery      - 'RVSenThe WoldgetBtnk G-p any tedilent e
M editerranean    Sea                                              CYRUchonge,/eddiiions-oRIESonteeeosot rytritr,o
-nnuolohl ei ihn lien          -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    any endorsement or occptoiice of             OD
of printing.                                                         sech boundories.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                                                                                                                        n                                                               n0S



