Report No. PID5095
Project Name                     Turkey-Biodiversity and (@) ...
Natural Resource Management Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       TRGE44175
Borrower(s)                      Government of Turkey
Implementing Agency              General Directorate of National Parks
Ministry of Forestry
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                December 9, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         March 1, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 30, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Turkey is one of the most biologically diverse countries in the temperate
world. One third of the 9,000 plant species found in the country are
exclusive to Turkey. Turkish flora includes many wild relatives of important
domestic species (e.g., wheat, barley, chic pea, lentil, cherry, pear,
apricot, chestnut, pistachio, etc.). In addition to agricultural species,
the Turkish flora also includes many commercially important timber species,
and medicinal, aromatic, industrial and ornamental plants. Since
domestication of plants took place in the region, there are a wide variety of
land races of domestic species whose genetic resources could be of
immeasurable economic value for breeding crop species with specific disease
resistance and other desirable characteristics. In addition, one of the
three major flyways for millions of migratory birds, which move between the
Western Palearctic and Africa each year, passes through Turkey.     Since the
country is predominantly semi-arid, Turkish wetlands are of crucial
importance for many of these migrants, and also for many breeding species of
water birds, including a significant proportion of the global populations of
some species.
Major issues influencing the sustainability of natural resource use and the
conservation of biodiversity in Turkey include: (i) weak capacity to
implement the overall strategy for environmental management; (ii) forest
resource planning and utilization systems do not adequately incorporate
environmental and biodiversity conservation issues; (iii) unsustainable range
and grazing resource management systems; (iv) lack of inter-sectoral
coordination, particularly between conservation agencies and the Ministries
responsible for regulation of tourism development, management of cultural
heritage, and the use of water resources, and (v) lack of public awareness of
the importance of Turkish biodiversity and the urgent need for effective
conservation initiatives.    The impact of these sector issues on Turkey's
natural resources has been exacerbated by a high population growth rate,
rapid urbanization, and intensification of agriculture.



Turkish authorities have become increasingly aware of the threats to
sustainable resource management associated with rural development, and are
taking actions to address them. The Ministry of Environment, established in
1991, has developed environmental assessment procedures, and a new
environmental law is being reviewed by Parliament. A National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) has been prepared with the involvement of Government,
Municipalities, the private sector and NGO community. As part of the NEAP
process, and with GEF support, the Government also prepared a National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), which in turn guided
identification of this project.
The Government is committed to incorporating environmental and biodiversity
conservation issues into forest resource management. Current forest resource
management plans do not adequately recognize the importance of forest
biodiversity or address the needs of forest communities, which include 9
million of the country's poorest people, whose economic dependency on forest
resources constitutes a significant threat to Turkish forest resources and
biodiversity. Consequently, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is developing
programs to involve local communities in forest management and, with the
assistance of the World Bank, has undertaken a review of the forestry sector,
with a view to implementing reforms that would (a) alleviate poverty among
forest communities, and (b) establish sustainable forest resource planning
and management systems that will recognize the value of all forest products
and services, specifically including biodiversity.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to establish effective, intersectoral,
participatory planning and sustainable management of protected areas and
natural resources at four selected biodiversity conservation demonstration
sites, and build capacity at the national level to facilitate replication of
these activities at priority conservation sites throughout Turkey.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Because of the global significance of the forest, steppe and alpine
ecosystems in the demonstration sites and the need for incremental financing
to establish systems for their long-term protection, GEF support is
warranted. Without GEF support, it would not be possible to develop and
implement the conservation actions needed for these globally significant
areas. The Bank adds value to the project through its experience in Turkey
and its ability to build on experience gained in development of the NEAP,
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, the Eastern Anatolia Watershed
Management Project, ongoing sector work in the Turkish forestry sector, and
biodiversity and forestry projects throughout the region.
4. Description
The project will establish effective participatory systems for sustainable
conservation and natural resource management at four pilot sites selected
from each of Turkey's four main biogeographic zones. It will build the
national capacity and public support to catalyze replication of this
experience to develop a nationwide network of protected areas. The project
will also review the legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity
conservation and explore opportunities for mainstreaming biodiversity
- 2-



conservation in forest planning and management, local land use planning,
tourism development, agricultural extension and environmental management of
water systems. The project's four pilot sites include:
(a) Caucasian mixed temperate rain forest and high alpine meadows of Camili
Forest District, Artvin Province, North East Black Sea mountains (27,000 ha.,
altitude 400-3,500m).
(b) Wetland and steppe ecosystems of Sultan Sazligi-Erciyes protected area,
Kayseri, Central Anatolian Plateau (18,000 ha., altitude 1,000-3,000m).
(c) Mediterranean forest and high alpine ecosystems of the Taurus mountains
in Koprulu Kanyon National Park, Taurus Mountains, Southern Turkey
(approximately 40,000 ha., altitude 400-2,500m).
(d) Alluvial forest with associated aquatic and coastal ecosystems at
Igneada, Kirklareli, protected and wildlife management areas of the Thracean
Black Sea coast, (2,500 ha.).
Different conservation challenges will be addressed at each of the four
project sites. These include the impacts of existing or encroaching mass
tourism, unsustainable use of common resources and inadequate coordination of
biodiversity conservation initiatives with sectoral and local land use
planning. The project will address priority conservation planning and
management challenges that are common to many priority biodiversity sites
throughout Turkey and will provide practical experience to support effective
implementation of the national biodiversity conservation strategy.
By addressing conservation planning and management issues common to many
important biodiversity sites throughout Turkey and providing models for
replication in priority conservation areas in other parts of the country and
the region, the project will provide ecological, social, economic and
institutional benefits at the global, regional, national and project site
level.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               3.2
Global Environment Fund                  8.2
Total Project Cost                       11.4
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a 5 year period. The MoF, which is
responsible for management of all national parks and forest lands in Turkey
and has an extensive network of field based staff, will take lead
responsibility for project implementation. It will establish a Project
Advisory Committee (PAC) consisting of experts from the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs, Ministry of Tourism and Non-Governmental Organizations, to
provide project oversight advice and assist in resolving issues associated
with project implementation. The MoF will also establish a Project Management
Team which will be responsible for the overall management of project
activities and supervision of Protected Area Management Authorities (PAMAs)
at the four project sites, and project activities being implemented at the
-3 -



national level. PAMAs will be established within MoF at each of the four
project sites (Antalya/Beskonak in Manaugat County; Borcka/Camili in Borcka
County; Igneada in Demirkoy County, and at Sultan Sazligi in Yesilhisav
County) and will be responsible for implementing project activities at the
field level.
7. Sustainability
The project will ensure institutional sustainability through rationalization
of protected area management responsibilities, and capacity building and
institutional strengthening at both the national and local levels (Government
implementing agencies and NGOs). The project will strengthen the existing
collaboration between MoF and other concerned Government agencies, and will
build new partnerships with NGO and stakeholder organizations to improve the
efficiency and sustainability of project activities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed GEF project would build on the experience of the Turkish pilot
phase GEF project (In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Resources), the Eastern
Anatolian Watershed Project, and other pilot phase GEF biodiversity
conservation projects in the region (e.g., Belarus, Poland, Romania, Trans-
Carpathians and Ukraine). These projects have clearly demonstrated the need
to: (a) address socio-economic issues linking local communities with natural
resource use in project design; (b) use a transparent and participatory
approach to developing natural resource management plans; (c) actively
support the development of productive working relationships between sector
Ministries and the NGO community, and (d) mobilize Turkish NGO capacity to
contribute constructively to planing and implementation of natural resource
conservation and rural development programs.
The project design particularly benefits from lessons learned in Turkey from
the In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Resources Project. These include (a) the
need to involve key sectoral agencies in coordinating in-situ conservation
initiatives, (b) the importance of establishing a core team within the
implementing agency that is equipped with the necessary skills to assist
implementing units with procurement and adminstrative matters, and (c) the
importance of local community participation in the design of conservation
management plans.
The principal recommendations of the GEF STAP reviewer have been incorporated
into the project design and will be addressed during implementation. These
include the need to: (i) build effective interagency collaboration at the
national level; (ii) establish inter-sectoral collaboration at the local
level through project implementation committees; (iii) develop capacity for
spatial planning to safeguard conservation priorities; (iv) develop mechanism
for conflict resolution that will support benefit sharing among stakeholders;
and (v) strengthen the capacity of NGOs to work collaboratively with
Government in supporting conservation and the sustainable use of natural
resources.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The entire project constitutes an environmental
-4 -



mitigation and management plan. It has been designed and will be implemented
in a participatory manner, in order to have a positive environmental impact,
through establishing effective systems to conserve the natural integrity and
biodiversity of Turkish ecosystems in protected areas, associated landscapes
and production forests. Following a baseline ecological survey of project
sites, the location of visitor centers and marked trails will be chosen so as
to limit the existing environmental impact of visitors. Visitor centers will
not be located inside the core protected areas, and their design,
construction and management will be in accordance with World Bank
environmental guidelines.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
John W. Fraser Stewart
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-5888
Fax:        (202) 614-0696
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 24, 1999.
- 5 -



