Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023556
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity and Natural Resource Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated July 12, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023556
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
Page  2
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for 
the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under  
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(15), 
(16), (17), (19) and (20) , 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Article XII.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol 
“SDR” mean 
special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in 
accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of 
the GEF, except that, in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include 
the Bank 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
Page  3
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant (or “Grant”);
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account (or “Grant Account”), an 
account opened by the 
Bank on its books in the name of the Recipient 
to which the amount of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant is credited; 
and
(vii)
a new subparagraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, 
as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5), set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, services 
and subgrants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“GDEP” means the General Directorate for Environmental Protection within 
MOE;
(d)
“GDF” means the General Directorate for Forestry within MOF;
(e)
“GDNP” means the General Directorate for National Parks Game and Wildlife 
within MOF;
(f)
“MOC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Culture;
(g)
“MOE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment;
(h)
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Forestry;
(i)
“PAC” means the Project Advisory Committee referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
“PAMAs” means the Protected Area Management Authorities within MOF;
(k)
“PMT” means the Project Management Team established within MOF;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(n)
“Subgrants” means the subgrants referred to in Part B (iv)  of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million one hundred twenty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,120,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  4
Agreement for: (a) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) 
under Subgrants; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying 
out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through MOF, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices and with due regard to 
ecological, environmental and social factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than December 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 
Page  6
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that a financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been established.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek-Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable Address:
Telex:
MALIYE
821-42285
Hazine, Ankara
(MLYE-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Aydin Karaoz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
Page  7
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   600,000
52%
(2)
Goods
 1,075,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
and 80% of local 
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services,
 2,480,000
80%
workshops and training
(4)
Subgrants
   715,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(5)
Incremental operating
   630,000
80%
costs
(6)
Unallocated
   620,000
TOTAL
6,120,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
(c)
the terms “workshops and training” mean workshop and training activities 
(other than consultants’ services) to be carried out under the Project, including the 
cost of workshops and the travel and per diem of the trainees; and
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the PMT on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies and materials, promotional materials, Subgrant application 
materials, publications, educational materials and travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of SDR 25,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) set forth in the table in 
paragraph A.1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after February 29, 2000; and (b) payments made for expenditures in 
Page  8
respect of Category (4), unless the Recipient has adopted procedures, eligibility 
criteria and terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, relating to Subgrants. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; (v) training; 
(vi) incremental operating costs; and (vii) subgrants under contracts costing less 
than $10,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
the Central Bank of the Recipient or in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Page  9
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Page  10
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Grant Account for deposit into the 
special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in establishing 
effective, inter-sectoral, participatory planning and sustainable management of 
protected areas and natural resources at selected biodiversity conservation 
demonstration sites, and build capacity at the national level to facilitate 
replication of these activities at other priority conservation sites.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Strengthening of the National Framework for Biodiversity Conservation
(i)
Review and development of the legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity 
conservation.
(ii)
Development and implementation of a strategy and action plan to raise the 
awareness of key stakeholders and the general public about the importance of 
biodiversity conservation.
(iii)
Strengthening the capacity of MOF to develop a network of protected areas 
through replication of participatory protected area management systems.
(iv)
Establishment of a system to monitor the status of biodiversity and conservation 
initiatives.
(v)
Demonstration of models for incorporation of biodiversity issues in the forest 
management planning process at selected sites.
Part B:
Development of Prototypes for Protected Area Management
(i)
Strengthening the capacity of PAMAs and development of protected area management 
planning systems.
Page  11
(ii)
Establishment of participatory mechanisms to prepare protected area management 
plans.
(iii)
Development of local support for biodiversity conservation through public 
awareness and education programs.
(iv)
Establishment of community based mechanisms, including the extension of 
Subgrants  to eligible beneficiaries, to support conservation-linked development and 
reduce unsustainable use of shared resources.
(v)
Development of environmentally responsible tourism.
(vi)
Establishment of collaborative mechanisms to ensure the inclusion of 
biodiversity conservation in local, sectoral and land use plans.
Part C:
Project Management and Monitoring
Provision of consultants’ services, equipment and incremental operating costs to 
strengthen the Project implementation capacity of the PMT. 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $780,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $240,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $110,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to Part B and the 
first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to Part C.1, respectively, of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to Parts 
C.2, C.3 and C.4, respectively, of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, as the case 
may be, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Page  13
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for studies to develop and maintain a biodiversity information system, 
studies for public relations, replicating prototype protected areas, flora and fauna 
surveys and training may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Recipient shall maintain, in a 
manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a PAC, consisting of the 
Head of Research, Planning and Coordination Board of MOF as chairperson and 
representatives from MOF, MOE and MOC and other relevant ministries and institutions.  
The PAC shall be responsible for reviewing the progress of Project implementation and 
resolving any general issues related to inter-agency coordination within the framework 
of the Project.
2.
MOF shall be responsible for overall Project implementation and supervision. The 
PMT shall be responsible for day-to-day Project administration, management and 
coordination, including activities related to procurement, accounting, disbursement, 
auditing and reporting. Throughout the implementation of the Project, the PMT shall be 
maintained with a sufficient number of qualified staff, consultants, adequate 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Responsibility for the carrying out of the Project at the national and local 
level shall be assigned as follows: 
(a)
under the supervision of the PMT, responsibility for carrying out the 
Project at the national level shall be assigned to GDEP, GDF and GDNP.  For this 
purpose, the Recipient, through MOF and MOE,  shall ensure that, throughout the 
implementation of the Project, GDEP, GDF and GDNP shall be maintained with a 
sufficient number of qualified staff, consultants, adequate resources and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)
responsibility for carrying out the Project at the local level shall be 
assigned to PAMAs and, for this purpose, the Recipient, through MOF, shall ensure 
that, throughout the implementation of the Project, PAMAs shall be maintained with a 
sufficient number of qualified staff, consultants, adequate resources and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
