Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22074
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO
MEXICO HIGH-EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT TRUST FUND PROJECT
(GEF GRANT No. GE-7402)
April 12, 2001
Operations Evaluation Department
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
This document has been prepared for the Global Environment Facility (GEF).



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = New Mexican Peso (N$)
US$1.00 = N$ 6.42 (1995 average)
US$1.00 = N$ 7.60 (1996 average)
US$1.00 = N$ 7.92 (1997 average)
US$1.00 = N$ 9.07 (1998 average)
Special Drawing Rights: US$1.00 = 0.73
Norwegian Krone: US$1.00 = 7.55
Weights and Measures
1 Metric ton (mt or ton)   = 1,000 kg.
1 MW (Megawatt)            = 1,000 kW
1 GW (Gigawatt)            = 1,000 MW
1 TW (Terawatt)            = 1,000 GW
1 Tt (Teraton)             = 1,000,000,000 tons
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BANOBRAS  Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos (National Bank of Public Works
and Services)
CFE          Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission)
CETES        Certificados de Tesoreria (Government of Mexico Treasury Bills)
C02          Carbon dioxide
CONAE        Consejo Nacional de Energia (National Energy Council)
DSM          Demand-side management
UNFCCC       United Nations Framework on Climate Change
FIDE         Fideicomiso de Apoyo al Programa de Ahorro de Energia del Sector Electrico
(Trust Fund for Energy Conservation)
FL           Fluorescent light bulb
GEF          Global Environmental Facility
GET          Global Environmental Trust
GOM          Government of Mexico
ILUMEX       fluminaci6n de Mexico (Mexico High-Efficiency Lighting Project)
IU           Implementation unit
IRR          Internal rate of return
LRMC         Long-run marginal cost
NOx          Nitrogen oxides
PIU          Project implementation unit
STAP         Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (Panel de Asesores de Ciencia y
Tecnologia)
S02          Sulfur dioxide
Fiscal Year
Government:         January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation         : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department      : Ms. Elizabeth McAllister
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group   : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                       Mr. Andres Liebenthal



Contents
Preface ................................v
Executive Summary ................................                                                                                       vii
1. Project Background .................................1
2. Objectives, Components, and Design ................................2
Objectives ..............................2
Components and Design ..............................2
3. Implementation ................................3
4. Outcomes and Follow-up Activities ...............................4
Outcomes ..............................4
Follow-up Activities .............................7
5. Conclusions ...............................8
Findings ..............................8
Ratings .............................                                                                                         10
6. Lessons ....................                                                                                                           10
Annex A: Basic Data Sheet ....................                                                                                           11
Annex B: Distribution Analysis ......................... Error! Bookmark not defined.






iii
Principal Ratings
Audit
Outcome                                                                                Marginally Satisfactory
Sustainability                                                                               Uncertain
Institutional Development                                                                     Modest
Borrower Performance                                                                        Satisfactory
Bank Performance                                                                           Unsatisfactory






v
Preface
This Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Performance Audit Report (PAR) is on
the High-Efficiency Lighting Pilot Trust Fund (known in Mexico as ILUMEX), for which a GEF
Grant (No. GE-7492) of SDR 7.3 (approximately US$10.00 million) was approved on March 14,
1994. The project was cofinanced by a Nkr. 20.25 million (approximately US$3 million) grant
from the Kingdom of Norway. The project was made effective on February 10, 1995, and the
final disbursement took place in March 1997. The grants were closed December 31, 1997, and the
project was completed by January 31, 1998, both dates are about one year behind schedule.
The PAR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), loan documents, project files,
and discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited Mexico in June-July 1999 for
discussions with the government, the project implementing agencies, the Bank's Mexico office,
and other project stakeholders. Their cooperation and assistance are gratefully acknowledged.
The High-Efficiency Lighting Pilot Trust Fund was the first project of its kind in the GEF
portfolio, and assessing its outcome resulted in a lively discussion among the Bank's Country
Unit, Sector Unit, Environmental Department, OED, and GEF, regarding how to evaluate its
outcome and sustainability. While this audit follows the standard PAR procedures, it also draws
upon experiences from similar projects elsewhere to help evaluate the project. It presents a
thorough consideration of the lessons to be learned from a project that, despite its shortcomings,
pioneered a new and increasingly important field for the borrower, the Bank, the GEF, and the
development community at large.
Following standard OED procedures, this draft PAR was sent to the borrower for
comments, but none were received.






vii
Executive Summary
The Mexico High-Efficiency Lighting Pilot Trust Fund for which a GEF Grant (GE-
7492) in the amount of SDR 7.3 (approximately US$10.00 million) was approved on March 14,
1994. The project was cofinanced by a grant from the Kingdom of Norway for NKr. 20.25
million (approximately US$3 million). The project was made effective on February 10, 1995, and
the final disbursement took place in March 1997. The Grant closed December 31, 1997, and the
project was completed by December 31, 1998. Both dates were about one year behind schedule.
The project objectives were: (a) to demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of
reducing emissions of greenhouse gasses and simultaneously reduce local environmental
contamination through the widespread installation of high efficiency lighting; (b) to build the
institutional capacity for technological change and energy conservation; (c) to provide a
replicable model for energy demand side management; and (d) to strengthen CFE's (Mexico's
utility) capacity to practice demand side management on a sustainable basis. The main project
component was the promotional sale of approximately 1.7 million fluorescent light bulbs (Fls)
among residential users in the cities of Guadalajara (Jalisco State) and Monterrey (Nueva Leon
State), at prices 60% below cost. Since Fls consume 75% less energy than equivalent standard
incandescent bulbs and last 15 times longer, significant energy savings and environmental
benefits were envisaged.
Regarding the project outcomes, by the Grant closing date the project slightly surpassed
the original target of 1.7 million Fls sold. Furthermore, CFE continued selling Fls through
January 31, 1999, to attain a total of 2.6 million. Project costs remained remarkably close to
original estimates, and Fls sale prices went up, so that the average subsidy was actually 49% of
the bulb's cost. Also, the energy savings and reduced CO2 emissions were in line withl initial
estimations. On the other hand, power capacity savings (reduced power consumption delays the
need to invest in new capacity) were only one-third the initial estimates. The project lost its
original focus on poor consumers due to slow sales among low-income/low electricity consumers,
and the program did not fulfill its free driver expectations of promoting Fls among the public at
large.
Based solely on energy savings the project had a positive and acceptable economic
internal rate of return, albeit significantly lower than the one put forward at appraisal, due to the
initial overestimation of capacity savings. On the other hand, if the local and global
environmental benefits were factored into the economic analysis, the rate of return could increase
substantially. The distribution analysis (without environmental benefits) shows that: (a) all gains
went to participant households and they exceeded the appraisal estimate because marginal
electricity tariffs were two to three times higher than the utility's marginal costs; (b) CFE lost
profits, mostly in the form of forgone electricity sales; but (c) CFE financial losses were reduced
by the fact that part of the project costs was covered by the grants from GEF and the Kingdom of
Norway.
Internationally, the project compares well with similar initiatives around the world, in
terms of number of Fls distributed, unit cost, and level of subsidy. However the project design
and implementation never addressed the issue of sustainability. What will happen with the use of
Fls in the participating cities after the project wanes, remains unknown.



viii
Comparing goals and outcomes the audit concludes that the project succeeded in
demonstrating the technical feasibility of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and
simultaneously reducing local contamination through the widespread installation of high
efficiency lighting, but it failed to demonstrate the financial feasibility of such endeavor and it
contributed modestly towards building the institutional capacity for technological change, energy
conservation and demand-side management at CFE, the implementing utility.
The audit ratings of the project are as follows: Outcome is rated marginally satisfactory.
Institutional development impact is rated modest. Sustainability is rated uncertain. Bank
performance is rated unsatisfactory.
The project offers several lessons:
*     Replicability and sustainability are essential elements in demonstration
projects and deserve close consideration. They need to be explicitly
incorporated in the project design, which should spell out the strategy, the
activities, the resources and the monitoring that will be committed to these
purposes.
*     Well-planned implementation schemes are central to the project
performance. In this case the implementation scheme, based in decentralized
units and the establishment of independent trust funds with BANOBRAS was
very successful. It gave CFE (Mexico's utility) overall control of the p,oject,
while assuring a smooth flow of funds to the local implementation units.
-    Bulk procurement can be an important leverage. The project proved that bulk
fluorescent lamps (Fls) procuremea1t was an effective way to obtain technical
improvements and significant price rebates from manufacturers.



1
1.  Project Background
1.1    Mexico's energy consumption ratios compare favorably with OECD averages.
Nevertheless, the country's size, rapid population and economic growth, and the fact that energy
consumption has been growing faster than the GDP made it the 13th largest energy consumer and
the 12h largest energy-related C02 emitter in the world by the mid-1990s.'
1.2    The 1998 electricity generation of 137 Terawatt hours (TWh) amounted to approximately
10 percent of Mexico's total final energy consumption. Electricity is the fastest growing energy
component, and it is estimated that for 1996-04 an additional 1 lGigawatts (GW) of generation
capacity will be required, with investment costs of US$3 billion per year. High investment needs
are not the only sectoral concern. Since some 73 percent of power generation uses fossil fuels,
utilities are a major source of local pollutants (SOx and NOx) and a significant source of C02, the
main global greenhouse gas. Therefore, since the late 1980s Mexico's energy authorities have
been promoting energy efficiency and pollution reduction alternatives among producers and
consumers alike. For instance:
?  In 1989, with the creation of the Trust Fund for Energy Conservation (FIDE), Mexico's
utility company, started its Energy Conservation in the Electricity Sector program. During
1990-94 FIDE approved more than 500 loans at zero interest for a total of some US$17
million to finance energy efficient projects that by 1994 have saved an estimated 1TWh of
energy. FIDE also undertakes training, energy efficiency certification, and demonstration
projects.
*  Eleven national energy efficiency standards were approved by 1996 (e.g., for water pumps,
water heaters, etc.) as part of a program that aims to achieve, hy the year 2005, a 10 percent
energy saving (based on 1995 power consumption figures).
*  The national energy council, CONAE, conducts a program of sector and industry energy
audits, and promotes training, demonstration projects, and education campaigns on energy
efficiency.
*  CFE has a program for replacing natural gas for oil in power generation plants, particularly in
and around Mexico City.
1.3    As part of these initiatives CFE explored the potential of demand-side management
(DSM). Broadly speaking DSM, is any initiative that aims to increase the use of energy saving
devices. The rationale for DSM rests in what has been labeled the "energy conservation paradox."
That is, households and other small energy consumers fail to take advantage of available energy-
efficient technologies, even when they would clearly reap monetary benefits. This market (or
behavioral) failure has been linked, among other things, to lack of information, high up-front
costs, and high household rates of discount. Many studies have found it to be pervasive among
households and small energy consumers, in both high- and low-income countries.2
1.4    Mexico has high expectations for DSM. So high, in fact, that the current national electric
plan put forth a target of saving 50 TWh by the year 2004 through DSM, with related reductions
in the need for additional capacity of more than 5 GW. When the Bank approached CFE in the
identification and preparation phase of this project, CFE was already surveying the potential
market for a high-efficiency fluorescent lights (FLs) project in Guadalajara and Monterrey (the
1. OECD (1998) " Mexico Environmental Performance Review" OECD, Paris; and Telnes, E. and Uzzell,G.(I999),
Illumex Lessons Learned" Technical Report, DNV Development, Oslo
2. See Shipper, L. (1993) "Energy Efficiency and Human activities" World Bank 1993 Development Conference



2
second and third largest cities in the country), based on its experiences with several small DSM
activities, including:
* FIDE's financing of improvements in home insulation,
* A program to equip public lighting with sodium vapor lights,
* The replacement of some 90,400 household incandescent bulbs with high-efficiency
fluorescent light bulbs, mostly through sales at discounted prices.
1.5    Mexico's interest in a sizable FLs project was shared by the Global Environment Fund
(GEF), the Govemment of Norway, and the World Bank. GEF was interested in exploring the
potential of high-efficiency lighting projects to reduce greenhouse gases. An interesting point is
that these types of projects are economically viable on the basis of domestic benefits (energy cost
savings) and therefore would not usually merit GEF support. Yet experience worldwide shows
that commercial diffusion of FLs among households is low without a major promotional boost.
With that understanding, GEF participated in the financing of the pioneering ILUMEX project,
which has since been followed by similar projects in Poland, Jamaica, and Thailand.
1.6   Further to its contribution to Mexico's sustainable development, the Government of
Norway looked upon the project as an opportunity to learn about activities implemented jointly
as envisaged in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). This interest was
shared by the Bank's Environmental Department, which has devoted significant efforts to
develop the Bank's know-how to act as a clearinghouse in a potential worldwide carbcn offsets
market. To this end, the Bank's Climate Change Unit gave technical support to the project,
commissioned a carbon abatement audit of it, and used it as a case study to develop calrbon
abatement monitoring and verification methodologies.3
2.  Objectives, Components, and Design
Objectives
2.1    As stated both in the Project Document, and the Grant Agreement, the project objectives
were: (a) to demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of reducing emissions of
greenhouse gasses and simultaneously reduce local environmental contamination through the
widespread installation of high-efficiency lighting; (b) to build the institutional capacity for
technological change and energy conservation; (c) to provide a replicable model for energy
demand-side management; and (d) to strengthen CFE's capacity to practice demand-side
management on a sustainable basis.
Components and Design
2.2    The main project component was the replacement of approximately 1.7 million
incandescent bulbs with fluorescent light bulbs (FLs) among residential users in the cities of
Guadalajara (Jalisco State) and Monterrey (Nueva Leon State), thus reaching approximately 10
to 15 percent of these cities' households.
2.3    Since FLs consume 75 percent less energy than equivalent standard lamps and last 15
times longer, significant energy savings and environmental benefits were expected from this
3.Telnes, E. and Uzzell,G.(I 999), Illumex Lessons Learned Technical Report, DNV Development, Oslo



3
project. High rates of return were also estimated, but varied widely, depending on whose costs
and benefits were measured, whether it was all the stakeholders (true economic costs and
benefits), participant households, the utility company, or the global commons.
2.4    Seventy seven percent of the project's total costs went to the acquisition of FLs, with the
rest paying for project offices, marketing activities, and consultants for testing, surveying, and
monitoring. Some important aspects of the project design were:
*  The project organization was similar to the one CFE already had in place for its home thermal
insulation improvement project: two project implementing units (PrU), one in each city,
financed through local trust accounts. FLs would be sold directly by the PIUs, either in
existing CFE locals, stands in shopping malls, or through door-to-door campaigns.
*  Initial preference would be given to low-income, low-electric-consumer households, with the
purpose, in the short run, of reducing the below-cost sales to this market segment, and in the
medium run to help offset the impact of future tariff increases among low-income dwellers.
*  Targeting low electricity consumers and distributing up to six lamps per households was
expected to increase the use of the FLs during peak electricity demand time, therefore
increasing capacity savings.
*  The project's promotional character: FLs would be sold at approximately one third of retail
prices for equal quality FLs. Furthermore, buyers had the option of paying either by cash or
with a two-year financing plan at an interest rate equivalent to the government treasury bills,
to be charged to their electricity bills. Also the project gave a two-year replacement guarantee
for defective bulbs.
-  The project design incorporated surveys and monitoring activities, directed to: (a) check the
pace of sales, (b) gather information regarding the use of FLs and their impact on savings in
energy and capacity, and in emission reductions, and (c) to estimate the "free-driver effect"
(the induced increase in non-subsidized retail sales of FLs that could be attributed to the
project's demonstration effect).
* The Climate Change Unit of the Bank's Environmental Department selected the project as a
pilot for testing verification of carbon savings and to this end gave support and follow-up to
the project design and implementation.
*  The project document stated that no policy or institutional reforms were needed to ensure
effective project implementation.
*  The only risks considered were low sales and technical problems with the design or operation
of the FLs.
*  Remarkably, the sustainability of this project does not seem to have been considered at the
design stage. The GEF Project Document states that the project would last until the original
funds were exhausted without further discussion of sustainability beyond that.
3.  Implementation
3.1    Effectiveness, planned for September 1994, suffered almost a year's delay due to
complications in the establishment of the trust funds for the two PIUs. Although the project
developed thereafter without major complications, it was not able to catch up from the delay. No
disbursements were made in fiscal 1994, and it proceeded slowly during fiscal 1995. It gained
momentum in fiscal 1996, so that 84 percent of the grant was actually disbursed by the end of that
fiscal year. When the project officially closed, in December 1997, it had used all of the original
grant and local counterpart moneys (although money was still corning into the project as
households repaid financed FL purchases). Some implementation issues worth noting are:



4
*  The final project budget was US$25.95 million-some 13 percent larger than originally
estimated-due to increased government contributions to the project; reinvestment of reflows
from FLs sales, and exchange rate appreciation of the external funding.
*   According to appraisal, all grant funds (US$13.85 million) were to be transferred to
participant households through rebates in the price of FLs sold. By the grant's closing date
(December 31, 1997), US$11.7 million had been distributed to FL buyers. By the sales
closing date (December 1, 1999) the project distributed 2.6 million of FLs and buyers have
benefited from US$17.7 million in rebates.
*  CFE had originally targeted low-income/low power consumers, yet sales to this sector were
slow, and sales were redirected to medium and high-income consumers. Also sale concerns
justified increasing to 10 the original 6 FLs per household limit, and expanding the marketing
efforts to the cities' entire metropolitan areas.
*  Through bulk procurement, the project received significant price discounts and, more
important, was able to demand changes in the specifications of the FLs to overcome quality
problems.
*  While keeping sales up was an overarching concern, other activities were given much less
attention. The surveys scheduled to inform the midterm reviewers were late and their results
were made available only after the project had closed. Surveys to estimate free-driver effects
were not commissioned. Also CFE and the PI Ts failed to comply with the Bank's auditing
and accounting requirements, a situation that persisted through project completion.
4. Outcomes and Follow-up Activities
Outcomes
4.1    FL distributed: By the grant's closing date the project had slightly surpassed the original
target of 1.7 million FLs. Furthermore, CFE continued selling FLs through January 31, 1999, to
attain a total of 2.6 million FLs sold, 53 percent above the original project's target.
4.2    FL costs and subsidies: Average FLs dollar costs remained remarkably close to original
estimations (13.93 dollars against 13.53 dollars) Yet CFE operational practices regarding
adjustments on its sale prices, to account for exchange devaluations, resulted in significant
increases of FL prices in Mexican pesos, and varying percentage of the subsidy per FL through
the project life. At closing, the actual average price subsidy per FL was 49 percent of CFE's
costs, down from the 63 percent expected in the GEF Project Document.
4.3    Poverty targeting: The original focus on low-income/low electricity consumers was set
aside due to slow sales in that market segment. Overall, 9.6 percent of FL sales went to low
electricity consumers, 31.3 percent to intermediate, and 59.2 percent to high electricity consumer
households.
4.4    Energy and environmental savings: These were in line with initial estimates of energy
savings (approximately 1,000 GWh) and C02 emissions avoided (approximately 764 thousand
tons). Reductions in local pollutants were smaller than envisaged because the utilities moved to
gas and lighter fuels during the project life. Savings gained from postponing the need to increase
generation capacity were only one-third of the initial estimates (see Table 1).



5
Table 1. Savin s Achieved
Envisaged at appraisal           At closing (12/31/97)          Comments or/and follow-up activities
Energy savings (totals through the project life)
In capacity needs 100 MW         In capacity needs 33.7 MW      The change in capacity reflects an
In energy produced 914 GWh       In energy produced 1,014 GWh   overestimation at appraisal. Furthermore,
the savings are temporary, lasting only as
long as the FLs are in use.
Environmental savings (totals through project life)
Of global concern:               Of global concem:              Differences from appraisal stem from
Avoided C02 709,800 ton          Avoided CO2 763,692 ton      CFE increasing use of gas and lighter
fuels, that resulted in a reduction in
Of local concem:                 Of local concern:              emissions per unit of energy produced.
Avoided SOx 25,675 ton           Avoided SOx 10,920 ton
Avoided NOx 1,754 ton            Avoided NOx 2,098 ton
Avoided Particulates 5,345 ton
Water savings 3.5 m3 millions
4.5     Economic analysis: The economic analysis, based solely on energy savings shows that
the project had a positive and acceptable rate of return, albeit significantly lower than the one put
forward at appraisal, owing to the initial over-estirmation of capacity savings. On the other hand,
if the environmental benefits, both local and global, were factored into the economic analysis the
rate of return could increase substantially.
4.6    If the country or the utility face severe short-term limitations to capacity expansion, this
can add a premium to the benefit of postponed capacity expansion, increasing the project and
CFE benefits. Although this does not seem to be the case for Mexico, it has been the main
rationale for some FL distribution programs elsewhere. Also, since all parties considered this
project a greenhouse gas reduction initiative, C02 abatement benefits should have been factored
into the economic or financial analysis. Doing so would bolster the project benefits. Suppose a
third party is interested in buying a product with a C02 emission reduction label. If the project's
subsidy component (49 percent of its costs) is considered to be the price of the 763,692 tons of
C02 avoided, then the unit price would be approximately US$18 per ton of C02. Alternatively, if
all the project costs were charged to the avoided emissions, the unit price would climb to US$34
per ton. Finally, if the hypothetical C02 buyers would have to compensate CFE for its financial
losses (due to reduced electricity sales), it would increase unit price to approximately US$40 per
ton. There is no international consensus on what would be a fair price for reducing a ton of C02
emissions, but these figures are in the high range. In Table 2, the audit uses US$10 per ton to
estimate a project economic rate of return, including C02 abatement benefits.
Table 2. Project Economic Analysis
Net economic benefits to am parties, (including GEF and Ki., gdom of  At appraisal  This audit
Norway) ___       ____
RR without considering pollution and C02 abatement benefits      56%          29%
Including C02 abatement benefits at US$10 per ton                na           34%
4.7     Distribution analysis: Further to the economic analysis, the appraisal document
presented estimates of returns to households and to CFE (the power company). These are not
economic but distribution (or financial) figures and the project effort should be commended since
few Bank projects attempt a distribution analysis. Then again, the appraisal exercise is incomplete
and flawed in several ways (see Annex B table for details). When these distortions are corrected
the audits distribution analysis shows that:



6
*   As expected, most project payoffs go to participant households. They are higher than
estimated at appraisal simnply because marginal electricity tariffs were two to three times
higher than the utilities' marginal costs. This was due both to power price increases and to the
project reorientation of FL sales from low to high electricity consumer households.
*   CFE loses money mostly as forgone electricity sales. A rather obvious outcome since, barring
sales at prices below cost, there are few situations where any business would make a profit by
selling less.4 CFE financial losses are lower than the ICR estimates because some of the
project costs were paid with the grants from GEF and the Kingdom of Norway.
4.8     The project compared: Regarding energy saved and pollution avoided by the project,
outcomes are modest but meaningful at participatinig cities level (around 5 percent of energy-
related CO2 emissions for both in the project's best year) and irrelevant at the country scale (less
than l/20th of one percent). The project compares well with similar initiatives around the world,
in terms of nurnber of FLs distributed and unit cost. Regarding the distribution of FL costs
between consumers and the project, ILUMEX is in an intermediate position.
Table 3. The Project in the Context of Mexico's Power Sector
Power reduction in the best project year, 1998                                135.1 GWh      (100%)
|    Compared with residential power consumption in participating states:     4,193 GWh     (3.2%)
l    Compared with total power consumption in participating stltes:           20,122 GWh    (0.7%)
I    Compared with residential power consumption, country:                    31,690 GWh    (0.4%)
Compared with total power consumption, country:                           137,286 GWh   (0.1%)
Annual sales of all types of light bulbs in participating cities,1997:       15.8 million    (100%)
.   FLs sold by Grant close are equivalent to:                               20.4 million    (129%)
*   FLs sold by program end are equivalent to:                               31.2 million   (197/)
C CO2 avoided (in thousand tons per year, Tty) in the project best year, 1998   94.75 Tty    (100%)
.   Compared with energy related CO2 emissions, participating cities (1995/OECD):  1,806 Tty  (5.2%)
*   Compared with energy related C02 emissions, country (1995/OECD):           327,600 Tty  (0.03%)
4. This was part of the project's original design: that CFE would have financial gains by reducing below cost sales to
low electricity consumers, and increasing sales at average rates. But as already mentioned, most sales went to high
electricity consumers that pay high marginal rates.



7
Table 4. The Pro~ect Corpared, with Other Similar Initiatives  ________             _________
Country/Project   Project Design         Number of                  Cost per FLs (USS)
origin                        F~~~~~~~dlivre  For the buyer    For the project   Total
Mexico (GEF)      Subsidy to consumers    1,712,361    7.1            6.8             13.1
Poland (GEF)      Subsidy to             1,600,000     9.0            3.2             12.2
manufacturers
Jamaica (GEF)    Subsidy to consumers     85,000       5.8            6.8             12.6
Thailand (GEF)    Bulk purchases         1,500,000     9.0            2.9             11.9
Brazil           Give away               89,000        -              8.3             8.3
Denmark          Small subsidy plus quality  1,000,000  11.0          4.4             14.4
control programs
UK 1             Subsidy to consumers    3,000,000     12.4           1.8             14.2
UK2              Give away               814,000       -              11.3            11.3
Peru             Publicity campaign, no  400,000       20.0           16.8            36.8
subsidies
USA (several)     Subsidy to consumers                 Rebates        Usually none.
between 20%    Paid out of a
and 50% of     surcharge on
retail prices  electricity bills.
Source: MarUnot E. and Borg. N. (1998) 'Energy-effident lightning prograrrr. Experience and lessons from eight countuies'
4.9     The participants' reactions: The Mexican implementing agency considered this project
as delivering valuable management experience (e.g., in the organization of the PIUs, the
procurement of FLs, and their technical testing, marketing, etc.). CFE plans to use these
experiences in other ongoing and future energy efficiency projects (see below). Surveys
conducted during 1997 in the two participant cities showed high levels of satisfaction among
participant homes; high visibility of the project city-wide; and mixed results regarding households
disposition to buy FLs at full price. On one hand, 80 percent of the participant households said
they would be willing to pay full price to replace their ILUMEX FLs when they wear out. On the
other hand, none of these households have yet attempted to increase their use of FLs with
purchases at non-subsidized retail prices.
4.10    Free-driver effects: The project did not collect systematic information to estimate its
free-driver impact (the induced increase in retail sales of FLs that could be attributed to the
project demonstration effect). The PIU staff observations suggest that: (i) during the project life,
retail sales to households actually went down due to the competition from the project; (ii) there is
anecdotal evidence that some people transferred their home experience into their workplace,
increasing demand of FLs among services, commerce, and industry; (iii) there were no retail price
reductions; and (iv) by project end more retailers stocked and displayed FLs.
Follow-up Activities
4.11    The project follow-up activities: CFE continued with the project's sale program beyond
the grant closing date, and sold 2.6 million FLs by January 31, 1999. The PIUs have since
stopped sales but will continue to maintain a presence in both cities through the year 2000 to
collect payments and service clients, including replacement of defective FLs. ILUMEX findings
were presented on March 24, 1999, at Vallarta, to an audience of 100 persons, including 22
participants from foreign countries.
4.12    Final destiny of FLs sales moneys: According to the project documents, if the project
was successful, the PITs would continue selling FLs until the balance of reflow funds (estimated



8
to be approximately US$9 million) was completely exhausted. CFE has already re-invested part
of the reflows, but, with sales ending January 31, 1999, additionai reflows to CFE through the
year 2000 would amount to approximately US$11.6 million. CFE plans to invest these moneys in
several energy conservation programs elsewhere in the country.
4.13   FLs follow-up activities: In 1998, FIDE (the National Trust Fund for Energy
Conservation) began a country-wide FLs project to sell 6.1 million lamps. FLs would be sold at
full direct costs, but price would not take into account the project operation and financial costs,
(what amounts to a subsidy of approximately 24 percent of the FL total cost). During 1998 and
1999, FIDE sold FLs in the cities of Queretaro, Michoacan, Puebla, Veracruz, and Morelos.
5.    Conclusions
Findings
5.1    Assessing outcomes against the project objectives, this audit concludes that:
*  The project did "demonstrate the technical ... feasibility of reducing emissions of greenhouse
gasses and simultaneously reduce local contamination through the widespread installation of
high-efficiency lighting." Although the impact of the project was minimal at the country
level, it was relevant at the local level, with redluctions in greenhouse gas emissions in the 5
percent range. It also compares well intemationally, both in size and cost per FLs lamp. This
speaks well of the relevance, efficacy, and efficiency in attaining the project physical goals:
installing 1.7 million FLs.
*  There were also improvements in "building the institutional capacity for technological change
and energy conservation" and in "strengthening the CFE's capacity to practice demand-side
management"-the institutional development impact. Although improvements look modest.
They are the result of a scale effect, rather than of an innovative approach, since the project
copied the institutional organization that CFE had already in place in other energy efficiency
program and the technical change achieved were limited to increasing the quality of the
lamps procured.
* The project clearly failed to "demonstrate the . .. financial feasibility of reducing emissions
of greenhouse gasses and simultaneously reduce local contamination through the widespread
installation of high-efficiency lighting." Although this goal appears prominently among the
project objectives, nothing in the project design or implementation worked in that direction.
*  As for its replicability, the project did "provide a replicable model of energy demand-side
management," in its technical and management design, but failed to test or even discuss a
replicable financial design.
*  A project can be non-replicable, yet its outcomes could be sustainable through other means.
Regarding the two cities involved, there is little evidence to believe that thanks to the
project's impact, a similar or larger amount of fluorescent light bulbs will be bought at full
market price when the ones distributed by the project are worn out. On a broader scope,
Mexico has reaffirmed its interest in energy conservation, and CFE (Mexico's utility) plans to
increase its demand side management programs. Then again, what this project has
contributed to CFE commitment to demand side management is mostly on the technical side.



9
Box 1. Assessing sustainability and replicability in a GEF pilot demonstration project
Since the ILUMEX project is the first of its kind completed in the Bank and GEF portfolio, assessing its
outcomes has fostered a lively discussion among Bank's staff. While no one disputes the project
achievement in terms of FLs distributed, there are contrasting views regarding the project sustainability and
replicability and the lessons that can be learned from it:
One position argues that any project with a large subsidy component would be unsustainable and difficult
to replicate. Actually some activities-like elementary school and primary health care-are regularly
delivered with a large subsidy component, that few will contest. Similarly, in the presence of positive
environmental externalities, subsidies could be a way to pay for them (e.g., payments for C02 abatement).
The problem regarding ILUMEX's sustainability and replicability is not the presence of a subsidy, but the
fact that, aside from some comments on the desirability of free-driver effects, neither the project design, its
implementation, nor the ICR addressed issues like: Why is this level of subsidy necessary? or, How will
FLs be distributed in the future? For example, when the actual subsidy went from 60% to 49%, thee project
did not open a discussion of what was then the appropriate level of subsidy: 60%, 49%, or 24% as in the
current follow-up FIDE program? Similarly, among the many studies required by the Bank, not a single
one asked for the analysis of alternative sources of financing FL distribution in the future (a surcharge in
electricity price, selling CO2 abatement, an environmental investment fund, term sales at full price, etc.).
Another position put forward is that sustainability was outside the reach of the project because it depended
on Mexico's willingness to increase electricity rates. There is no basis to support this argument. Between
1995 and 1997 the relevant marginal electricity price per kilowatt hour, the one paid by participants
households, was two to three times the utility's marginal cost, and growing.
Actually others in the Bank argue the project sustainability exactly the opposite way. Since households will
save kilowatt hours priced at such high rates, they will make handsome gains from their energy savings and
therefore-the argument goes-the project is highly beneficial and it will be easy in the future to make
households pay the full price for their FLs.
It should be noted that high financial gains to households should not be constructed as project economic
gains, since most of them are mere transfer payments from CFE and the donors. As for the argument that
households will pay full price in the future, this might be so, but the project design is rooted in an
assumption that households are reluctant to pay full price for their FLs. The results of the project do not
provide any clues to challenge that assumption.
Still others would defend the project with the pilot project justification-this being the first project in a new
area where there is so much to learn-yet this is precisely where the shortcomings of the ILUMEX project
are evident: It had a good learning payback in terms of technical designs (procurement, lamp specifications,
opportunities for greenhouse gas verification, and AJI design, etc.) but by and large, it failed to deliver
lessons for the economic and financial design of future DSM projects.
* This brings into focus the efficiency question. If the project's main objective was to show
how a large amount of FLs could be successfully distributed, it did it efficiently and at
reasonable per unit prices compared with similar projects (see Table 4). If the broader
objectives were to develop new approaches, learn, and provide replicable and financially
sustainable models for demand side management, the project efficiency was low.
5.2    In sum, the project was well crafted and managed to deliver over 2.6 million FLs (by
January 1999), not a minor achievement for one of the first projects of this size in Mexico and in
the GEF portfolio. But it was poorly designed as a pilot demonstration project in that it did not
address the sustainability and replicability questions that should be at the core of any project in
general but especially of a demonstrative one.



10
Ratings
5.3    Based in all the above, this audit rates the project as follows:
*  Outcome: Marginally Satisfactory. The rating reflects the fact that while ILUMEX had
surpassed its physical targets, it failed to fulfill expectations as a pilot demonstration project.
*  Institutional Development: Modest. The rating is based in the fact that the project added
little to the existing CFE institutional arrangements.
*  Sustainability: Uncertain. The rating reflects the fact that project design and implementation
never addressed the issue of sustainability, and what will happen with the use of FLs in the
participating cities.
*  Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory. The project had three task managers in three years, and
this high turnover was partially responsible fot the Bank failure to demand and achieve a
timely performance of the monitoring activities and compliance with audit and accounting
requirements. The audit is also concerned with the project design's lack of attention to
sustainability and replicability concerns.
* Borrower Performance: Satisfactory. CFE staff, being an utility entity, was focused on what
they knew best: the technical aspects of delivering the FLs, which they did very efficiently.
6.    Lessons
- Replicability and sustainability are essential design elements in demonstration projects
and deserve close consideration. For any pilot demonstration project, and more so for a
GEF grant, addressing project replicability, the sustainability of outcomes, and the learning
from the project are central issues. They need to be explicitly incorporated in project design,
which should spell out the strategy, the activities, the resources, and the monitoring that will
be committed to these purposes. Sticking to a physical target and delivering it is important
but is not enough since, by definition, a pilot project is a small-scale endeavor that is not
expected to make a large difference on the ground, except through its replication and the
application of lessons learned.
*  Continuity of Bank staff might help mitigate the effects of design shortcomings. While it
is difficult to assert the chances that project's design shortcomings will be detected and
corrected during implementation, the high turnover of the Bank staff assigned to the project
surely did not help.
*  Well-planned implementation schemes are central to project performance. 'Ihe project
implementation scheme, based on decentralized implementation units (PITJs) and
establishment of independent trust funds with BANOBRAS, was very successful: It gave
CFE oversight in the project while ensuring a smooth flow of moneys to the PIUs.
*  Bulk procurement can be an important leverage. As already has been proven in similar
projects, bulk FL procurement was an effective way to obtain technical improvements and
significant price rebates from FL manufacturers.



11
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Key Project Data (in US, million)
Appraisal estimate  Actual or current   Actual as % of
estimate           appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            23                  25.95               113
GEF grant amount                               10                  10.7*               107
Kingdom of Norway grant amount                 3                   3.15*               105
CFE (Mexico)                                   10                   12.1**             121
Date physical components completed             December 31, 1997  December 31, 1998
Economic rate of return                                                                *
Source: ICR
* The actual amount disbursed exceeded the appraisal estimate due to the variation of exchange rates (SDR and NKr)
vis-A-vis the US$.
This figure includes US$973,000 of reinvestment of CFLs sale proceeds.
*** Different rates of retum -for the country, the power utility and the households- have been estimated, see main text.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements, GEF Grant GE-7492 (in US$ million)
FY94       FY95       FY96       FY97
Appraisal estimate                       .65        6.5         5.85
Actual                                   0          2.2         9.4        2.2
Actual as % of appraisal estimate        0          34          161
Source: ICR
Project Dates
Original            Actual
Identification                           October 1991
Preparation                              June 1992
Appraisal           August 1993          October 1993
Negotiations        December 1993        February 1994
Board presentation    March 1994         March 14, 1994
Signing             June 1994            June 1994
Effectiveness       September 1994       February 10, 1995
Midterm review      September 1995       June/July 1996
Project completon    December 31, 1997   December 31, 1998
Loan/Grant closing    December 31, 1996   December 31, 1997
Final disbursement   March 1996          March 1997
Source: ICR



12
Related Projects
Borrower /Executing Agency:
Loan/Credit title                          Credit/Grant  Amount ($US million)  Board date   Status (as of
June 99)
Promotion of electric efficiency (GEF-     n/a           14.0                 1994         Ongoing
Thailand)
Efficiency lighting (GEF - Poland)         n/a           5.0                  1996         Completed
Demand side management (GEF - Jamaica)    n/a            nla                  1995         Ongoing
Source: ESSD core databasel ICR



13
Annex B. Distribution Analysis
(without considering pollution and CO2 abatement benefits)
At appraisal   AtICR            This audit
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~._...._. __........ . .  ..__._ ..............                            . ._. . ...... .. ........ .... .  _....__ ....__.............._.    .. _..
Distribution between participating households and all
others
a) Net financial gains (+) to participating households,  151% IRR  277% IRR         277% IRR
including saved taxes                              NPV: na        NPV: na           NPV: + $ 30.0 M
b) Net financial gains (or losses -) to all other parties (CFE  32% IRR  negative IRR  negative IRR
+ Mexico's treasury + GEF + Kingdom of Norway)     NPV: na        NPV: na           NPV: - $18.9 M
NPV (a+b)= Net economic benefits                   56% IRR        29% IRR          29% IRR
NPV: na       NPV: na           NPV: +$ 11.1 M
Distribution between Mexico and Donors
a) Net financial gains to Mexico                   na             na                96% IRR
(participating households + CFE + Mexico's treasury)                                NPV: + $ 22,6 M
b) Net financial gains (or losses -) to GEF + Kingdom of    na    na                Negative IRR
Norway                                                                              NPV: -11.5 M$
NPV (a+b)= Net economic benefits                   56% IRR        29% IRR           29% IRR
NPV: na       NPV: na           NPV: + $ 11.1 M
NPV figures are estimated at a 12 percent discount rate, and August 1998 prices



