nI4t'ed. t8t'           States
BaQ£:4) lacional de Obras y Serviciors Pub!icos
High lEf-zicieticy Lightinq ??iot Projaect
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
March 1994 s 1 taii 14  q 8 l} i
1~~~~~~H WORL BANK 0  | |                                               1. X        51  
~~ ~acionaI de Obras y Servicios Pub!~e~ I               afos
i   s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
,             ~~~Project Document
March 1994
;- t            ~~~THE WORLD BANK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,'.;   ,-  , ,~



United Mexican States
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
High Efficiency Lighting Pilot Project
Project Document
March 1994
LIU
TH WRWBANK



GEF Documentation
The Giobal Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming. pollution of international waters.
destruction oF biodiversity. and depletion of the ozone layer The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme. the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Working Papers - identified by the burgundy band on their covers - provide
general information on the Facilitys work and morespecific information on methodological
approaches. scientific and technical issues. and policy and strategic mattersr
GEF Project D-ocuments - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specifit information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Reports by the Chairman - identified by a blue band - are prepared by the Office of
the GEF Administrator in collaboration with the three GEF implementing agencies for the
biannual Participants' Meetings.
The GEF Administrator
1818 H Street. NW
Washington. DC 20433 USA
Telephone: (202) 473-1053
Fax- (202) 477-0551



CURRENCIES AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(Exchange Rates as of January, 31, 1994)
US$ 1.00 = N$ 3.11 (New Mexican Peso)
US$ 1.00 = NKr 7.50 (Norwegian Krone)
US$ 1.38 = SDR 1.00 (Special Drawing Rights)
UNITS AND MEASURES
I Metric ton (mt or ton)       =     1,000 kg
1 MW (Mega-watt)               =     1,000 kW
I MWh (Mega-watt-hour)         =     1,000 kWh
1 GWh (Giga-watt-hour)         =     1,000 MWh
I TWh (Tera-watt-hour)         =     1,000 GWh
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS          -      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Piblicos (National Bank of Public Works and
Services)
CFE               -      Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission, a Government-
owned Power Utility)
FCCC              -      United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
FIDE              -      Fideicomiso de Apoyo al Programa de Ahorro de Energia del Sector Electrico
(Trust Fund for the Program of Energy Conservation of the Power Sector)
GEF               -      Global Environment Facility
GET               -      Global Environment Trust Fund
ILUMEX            -      Spanish Acronym for the Project ('Proyecto de Uso Racional de Iluminaci6n en
Mexico")
INE               -      Instituto Nacional de Ecologia (National Environmental Institute)
PCU               -      Project Coordination Unit
SEDESOL           -      Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
SEMIP             -      Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (Ministry of Energy, Mines
and Parastatal Indusriy)
SHCP              -      Secretaria de Hacienda y Cridito Ptblico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
STAP              -      Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
UNEP              -      United Nations Environment Programme
UNDP              -      United Nations Development Programme
ABBREVIATIONS
CETES             -      Government of Mexico Treasury Bills
FLs               -      Fluorescent Light Bulbs (Include Compact and Circular Fluorescent
Light Bulbs)
CO2               -      Carbon Dioxide
DSM               -      Demand Side Management
GHG               -      Green House Gases
IRR               -      Intemal Rate of Return
LRMC              -      Long Run Marginal Cost
NO.               -      Nitrogen Oxide
SO2               -      Sulphur Dioxide
Government of Mexico's Fiscal Year
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Guarantor:              United Mexican States
Recipient:              Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pfiblicos - BANOBRAS
Executing Agency:       Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad - CFE
Beneficiary:            CFE
Cofinancier:           Kingdom of Norway
Amount:                 SDR 7.3 million (equivalent to US$10.0 million)
Terms:                  Grant
Financing Plan                 Local Cost       Foreign Cost         Total Cost
-In US$ Million (Equivalent)
CFE Funds                       4-3               5.7                10.0
GET Grant                       0.0               10.0               10.0
Kingdom of Norway               0.0               3.0                 3.0
Grant
Total Funds                     4.3               18.7               23.0
Economic Rate
of Retum:                   32% (minimum)
MAP:                        [BRD No. 25270
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Mexico on October 13, 1993, and
was composed by Messrs. Luis Luzuriaga (Principal Power Engineer, Task Manager), Richard Clifford
(Financial Analyst), Rudolf Van Puymbroeck (Legal Counsel), Luis Cosenza (Power Engineer,
Consultant) and included John Skjelvic (Economist) and Rolf Seirod (Enviromment Economist),
representing the government of the Kingdom of Norway. Department Director: Edilberto Segura,
Division Chief: Martin Staab.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
MEXICO, CENTRAL AMERICA AND PANAMA DEPARTMENT
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
OF THE LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN REGION
Country and Sector Background
1.     Mexico's GDP growth was 3.6% in 1991 and 2.6% in 1992; per capita GDP was
US$3,030 and US$3,470 in 1991 and 1992, respectively. Since per capita GDP was
US$1,990 in 1989, Mexico is eligible for Global Environment Facility (GEF) financing.
2.    The proposed Project underscores Mexico's commitment to environmental protection.
The country has a satisfactory national environmental policy framework, and with the
assistance of the Bank it is preparing an environmental action plan', which is expected to be
completed in mid-1994. In particular, and also with assistance from the Bank, Mexico has
begun to take firm steps to reduce c.ontamination from vehicles, including the introduction of
unleaded gasoline, mandatory use of catalytic converters for all new vehicles, and strict
vehicle emission inspections twice a year. Mexico is a signatory of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC) and the Government is committed to
formulate and implement national and regional programs to mitigate climate changes. Under
the Montreal Protocol, Mexico has decided to phase out ozone depleting substances, agreeing
to meet timetables for industrialized countries; this initiative is being supported through two
projects financed with Montreal Protocol funds for which the Bank is the implementing
agency. More importandy perhaps, public awareness of environmental problems has been
growing and the Government's concern for the environment is widely supported by the public
at large.
3.    In May of 1992, SEDUE (the ex-Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology), was
absorbed within the newly created Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, SEDESOL (Ministry of
Social Development), which made it possible, among other things, to have a better
coordination of the govemment's environrnental policy. Within SEDESOL, the development
and implementation of Mexico's environmental policy is the responsibility of two
decentralized agencies: (a) the Instituto Nacional de Ecologia, INE (National Environmental
Institute) and (b) the Procuradurfa de Protecci6n Ambiental (Environmental Protection
Office). The Bank is assisting Mexico in strengthening its environmental institutional capacity
through the Mexico Environmental Project which also includes a US$ 25 million biodiversity
component financed by GET.
4.    Demand for electric energy in Mexico is high: it was 100 TWh in 1992 and is
projected to grow at 5.3% per annum, resulting therefore in the need to add 14,000 MW over
the next ten years. Massive investments, on the order of US$3 billion per year for
generation, transmission and distribution will be needed to meet this growing demand, part of
A detailed description and assessment of Mexico's environmental issues can be found in the Bank' report
'Mexico: Environmental Issues Strategy Paper' dated August, 1992.



2
which is expected to be financed by the private sector, as the Electricity Law, amended in
1992, now permits independent power generation. Since Mexico's installed generating
capacity is about 80% thermal, there is concern over the gaseous emissions from therrno-
electric power plants and their deleterious effect on the environment. Current estimated
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from thermal power stations amount to 57 million tons per
year; similarly emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NO.) amount to
1,070,000 tons p.a. and 115,340 tons p.a., respectively. The federally owned electric power
utility, CFE, has implemented (with Bank assistance under Loan 3083-ME) supply-side
management and demand-side management (DSM) actions. It is also expected that the newly
created Energy Regulatory Agency will establish policies to further enhance DSM activities
and require Integrated Resource Planning as opposed to Least Cost Planming now practiced by
CFE.
5.    Electricity tariff increases over the last three years have resulted in an average price
for 1993 of US cents 6.92/kWh, or about 83% of long run marginal costs (LRMC). The
average price for residential consumers was US cents 6.65JkWh, with a range that varied
between 5.3 and 15.3 US cents per kWh, involving a significant cross subsidy from
residential consumers, with medium to large consumption, to other consumers. This situation
is being corrected, as CFE is committed to gradually eliminate by 1997 the existing large
cross subsidies amnong different types of consumers and to raise its average price to reach
LRMC by the same year.
6.    In August of 1990, CFE established a trust fund (FIDE) with funds provided by
power utilities, labor unions, contractors and suppliers to support and finance programs
related to energy conservation in the power sector. To date, FIDE has managed funds
totalling approximately US$16 million, which has been used to finance pilot and demonstra-
tion projects, the dissemination of their results and training in energy conservation. In
addition to partially fimding FIDE, CFE has direcdy promoted and financed several energy
conservation projects, such as: (a) the use of more efficient light bulbs (sodiumn vapor) in the
public lighting system; (b) the financing, through a trust fund, of the thermal insulation of
homes in areas with hot weather to reduce the air conditioning load; (c) assistance to the
private sector to identify measures to improve energy efficiency, and (d) seven small pilot
projects to replace incandescent bulbs with FLs in Hermosillo (two projects), Puebla,
Quer6taro, Valladolid, Chetunal and Mexico City.
7.    Proiect Obiectives: (a) demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of reducing
emissions of Green House Gases (GHG) and simultaneously reduce local environmental
contamination through the widespread installation of high efficiency lighting; (b) build the
institutional capacity for technological change and energy conservation; (c) provide a
replicable model for DSM in Mexico and elsewhere in the developing world, and (d)
strengthen CFE's capacity to practice DSM on a sustainable basis.
8.    The members of the FCCC have agreed that the policies and measures to reduce
emissions of GHG may be implemented jointly with other FCCC member countries. The
criteria for the mechanism of joint implementation are, however, yet to be developed and
decided upon by the parties. To assist in the development of possible criteria, the Norwegian
Government has decided to co-finance this Project, which might serve as a demonstration
vehicle for elements of a joint implementation scheme. The agreement of the Governments of
Mexico and Norway on the co-financing of this Project in no way implies the positions that



3
both Govermments might take in reiation to the subject of joint project implementation under
the FCCC.
9.    Project Description: The Project will replace approximately 1.7 million incandescent
bulbs with fluorescent light bulbs in the cities of Guadalajara and Monterrey. FLs require
only about 25% of the energy needed by incandescent bulbs to produce the same lighting level
and last up to 13 times longer (up to 10,000 hours). Guadalajara and Monterrey are Mexico's
second and third largest cities with approximately 550,000 residential electricity consumers
each; they also have different climates and economic structures and should, therefore, provide
valuable information for extending the program to other areas. CFE is responsible for the
distribution of electricity in both cities, where there are customer service centers that are in
daily contact with the consumers, a necessary condition for the successful implementation of
the proposed Project.
10.   The Project includes: (a) the acquisition of FLs (77% of project cost, including
contingencies); (b) the purchase of vehicles, metering equipment, personal computers, office
equipment and sales stands (2%); (c) consultant services for canvassing, marketing, testing,
auditing and project evaluation (4%); (d) the cost of engineering, monitoring and evaluation,
billing and accounting (8%); and (e) the direct costs of implementing the Project, including
fUlly dedicated staff in both cities, and office and administrative expenses (9%).
11.   There are no policy or institutional reforms needed to ensure effective Project
implementation. However, experience gained from the small pilot projects (para. 7) points to
the need for baseline assessments and a comprehensive evaluation procedure. For the
proposed Project, a baseline assessment will be carried out through specialized consultants.
Their work should provide the basis for a suitable evaluation process, particularly with respect
to induced sales that result from project related activities ("free driver effect").
12.   The Project incorporates the following features: (a) the benefits will be shared with
the participants, as is common in many other countries, through a rebate of approximately
63% (on average) of the total cost of the FL (which includes overhead costs); (b) participants
will pay for FLs either in cash or under a deferred payment plan of 24 months (as part of
their electricity bill), paying an interest rate equivalent to that prevailing for Government
treasury bills (CETES) (at the end of the present Project, the balance of reflows of funds
would be approximately US$ 9.0 million); (c) technical standards and specifications have been
developed to ensure that the FLs will operate properly and reach their projected lifetime
despite a power system that is subject to significant voltage variations, and (d) acceptable FL
performance guarantees will be provided for both the customer and CFE.
13.   Rationale for GET Funding: The GEF classifies projects into three Types. Type 1
include projects economically viable on the basis of domestic benefits and costs to the country
itself. These type of projects are normally not eligible for GEF financing, unless the GEF
Participants agree that a compelling case has been made that, despite attractive rates of return,
the operation would not proceed without GEF involvement. The proposed Project has
attractive rates of return, and it could be expected that it would be implemented purely for its
cost-effectiveness, and that the use of the FLs would spread, even in the absence of the
Project. However, experience confilms that unless consumers are shown how they can
benefit from EL use, the process of change is extremely slow. A major problem is the high
initial investment (since FLs typically cost at least ten times as much as the incandescent bulb
that they replace). Furthermore, there is a need to inform, and more importandy, convince



4
the consumers that they will in fact eventually reap the expected benefits. CFE's own small
pilot projects have demonstrated that, given a suitably designed project, consumers will accept
the use of FLs. However, these projects have been too small to have an impact on the nation-
wide use of FLs. GEF participation is therefore essential to demonstrate that the benefits to
the global environment and to Mexico can be realized.
14.   Based on the above considerations, the proposed Project has been designated as a
Type 1 project. The Project has been considered and endorsed by the GEF Scientific and
Technical Advisory Panel (STAP), and has been authorized as part of a work program
approved by the GEF Participants at their December, 1991 meeting.
15.   Project Cost and Financing: Total Project cost (including price and physical -
contingencies) has been estimated at US$ 23.0 million equivalent, of which: (a) US$ 17.63
million will be required to purchase the FLs; (b) US$ 0.41 million for the purchase of
vehicles, metering equipment, computers, office equipment and sale stands; (c) US$ 1.01
million for consultant services (interviewing, marketing, monitoring and evaluation,
laboratory testing and auditing); (d) US$ 1.93 million for engineering and project support;
and (e) US$ 2.02 million for direct project implementation. The Project will be financed with
a grunt from the GET, equivalent to US$ 10 million, a grant from the Kingdom of Norway of
Nkr 20.25 million, and the equivalent of US$ 10 million from CFE's own resources. The
grant funds will be used to finance partly the purchase of FLs and subsequently be transferred
to the participants of the program as rebates for the purchase of FLs. The details of project
cost and financing may be found in Schedule A.
16.   Proiect Implementation: For the design of the proposed Project, CFE has relied on
the results of market studies made in Guadalajara and Monterrey, and on the experience
gathered on residential lighting in the pilot energy conservation projects, as well as in the
thermal insulation improvement projects. These projects have illustrated the advantages of
proceeding through implementing units financed through trust accounts ("Fideicomisos") set
up with BANOBRAS; the system has been shown to be efficient and low cost, and has
allowed CFE to retain control of the projects and to introduce timely adjustments to ensure
their success. It also guarantees that the funds, including those resulting from the credit sales
to the participants, are kept separate from those that enter into CFE's own treasury and that
they only be used for the purposes of the Project. The Project will therefore be implemented
through two Implementing Units (one for each city) that will administer trust accounts opened
in BANOBRAS. Each hnplementing Unit will be directed by a Technical Committee with
five members, of which four are CFE's staff members. The Technical Committee will
appoint a Manager for each Unit who will be responsible for the day-to-day management of
the Project in each city; the Manager, and the personnel under his responsibility, will be hired
by, and paid with funds from each trust account. CFE will also establish a project support
and monitoring group to provide guidance to the Project and to provide day-to-day support
and supervision through a Project Coordination Unit, PCU. A high level Project Advisory
Committee will oversee the execution of the Project. FLs will be sold in the sale stands that
CFE will install in every customer center in the two cities were consumers pay their
electricity bills and in selected shopping renters, and as required, using door-to-door sales.
Billing and collection of payments for FLs sold on terns will be done using CFE's customer
service facilities and will be included in the customer's electricity bill. CFE's systems and
experience on these matters are more than adequate to ensure that there will be no problems
in the areas of billing and accounting. The proposed Project Organization is explained in
detail in Annex 1. The execution of the Project will be guided by the Operating Guidelines



5
described in Annex 6, and the proposed Project monitoring and evaluation methods are shown
in Annex 5.
17.   CFE has proposed to restrict the Project to the residential sector on the basis that the
other sectors, which include industrial and commercial users, do not require special incentives
to make the installation of FLs attractive; in addition, CFE does not wish to be seen by the
conunercial distributors of FLs in Mexico as their competitors. In order to promote the use
of FLs more widely, the Project will fund a marketing campaign to foster use of FLs, sold
through normal retail outlets, among the commercial and industrial customers. CFE further
plans to direct the Project to the low consumption users in the residential sector to provide a
relief, by means of more efficient use of electricity for lighting, when future tariff increases
are implemented. This should not reduce the energy savings produced by the Project, as
experience shows that while low consumption users have fewer light bulbs in their homes,
they make equal or more intensive use of them compared to high consumption users because
low consumption users spend more time in their limited number of rooms lit by FLs. At
present, electricity sales to these customers result in a net loss for each kWh, and CFE under-
standably wishes to reduce its losses. Nonetheless, since energy rates for low consumer users
are heavily subsidized, these customers would normaliy be the least inclined to participate in
the Project. Consequently, sales will be monitored closely to ensure that they do not proceed
painstakingly slowly while waiting for these low consumption customers to participate.
Targets have therefore been developed and failure to reach them will trigger more aggressive
marketing strategies, including to high consumption users.
18.   It is estimated that all the FLs will be purchased and installed in two and a half years
after project start, that the evaluation of the operation will be completed six months later, and
that a final project survey among the participants will be carried out a year after completion.
Consequently, the duration of the Project has been estimated to be three and a half years.
However, as some of the FLs will be sold on deferred payment terms, recovery of funds will
require up to four and a half years. BANOBRAS will be responsible for the management of
the grant funds, for keeping Project accounts, for arranging audits by independent auditors,
and for sending annual audit reports to the Bank. The project completion date is estimated to
be December 31, 1997. Schedule C shows a timetable of key Project processing events, and
Annex 9 lists the documents of the Project file.
19.   Procurement and Disbursement: In order to profit from economies of scale, FLs will
be purchased using both GET and Norwegian grant funds, in no more than three bid packages
of not less than US$ 4 million each, under ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines for
procurement and using Bank standard bidding documents. Procurement documents will be
subject to prior review by the Bank. The first contract is expected to be awarded early in
1994, and the second and third before the stock of FLs is depleted. Technical specifications
for the various types of FLs to be purchased are shown in Annex 2. It is expected that there
will be keen competition among mnanufacturers, including local companies that at present
produce about five million Fls annually, mainly for the export market. Purchase of vehicles,
computers, metering equipment, sales stands and office equipment will be financed with funds
provided by CFE and will follow local procedures. The hiring of consultants will also follow
local regulations as they will be financed with CFE's contribution; the proposed terms of
reference are shown in Annex 7. In view of the limited number of expected contracts to be
financed by the grants, disbursements will be by direct Bank payment to suppliers.
Disbursement of both grants will be made on a pn  asu basis, and would be completed in
three years; closing date of the grant will be December 31, 1996. Administration and



6
disbursement of the grant from the Kingdom of Norway will be carried out by the Bank
together with the GET grant. The proportion of the goods and services to be financed by
each party, and the disbursement calendar are shown in Schedule B.
20.   Project Sustainability: The Project could be replicated using the reflow of funds from
the sale of the FLs, provided that CFE would continue sharing its savings with the
participants and also contribute fresh funds for the subsequent projects. CFE has (a) agreed
to expand the scope of the Project, if required, until all funds from both grants have been
transferred to the participants in the form of rebates for the purchase of FLA, and (b) agreed
that if the Project is successful, the ImplemenL.g Units will continue their activities beyond
the scope of the present Project, until the balance of the reflow on funds (about US$ 9.0
million) is completely exhausted.
21.   Lessons from Previous GEF Projects and Previous Bank Involvement: CFE's
experience in its previous small pilot projects indicates that: (a) it is necessary to share a
significant part of the benefits of the project with the users through a rebate; otherwise, the
cost of the FLs is perceived as too high by putential participants; (b) it is important to have a
well defined marketing and promotional strategy; (c) certain tjpes of FLs are preferred,
particularly the 22 watt circular lamp; (d) to penetrate the low consumption residential
market, door-to-door sales are most effective. Furthermore. Bank's experience in the power
sector indicates that: (e) agreement should be reached early on draft ICB documents and (f)
the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit must be committed to the proiect in order to allow
CFE to include it in its investment program. Agreement on bid documents for ICB was
reached, the lMinistry's commitment has been secured, and the other mentioned lessons have
been incorporated in the project design (Annex 8).
22.   Agreed Actions: Agreements were reached on: (a) the final text of the Operating
Guidelines for the Project, which will constitute the norm for the execution of the Project.
Among other things, the Guidelines: i) provide guidance to CFE, BANOBRAS and the lUs
for the execution of the Project; ii) establish the percentage of the rebates and provide
flexibility for adjusting them and for shifting emphasis among the various categories of
participants, considering the results of the periodic reviews of the Project; iii) permit the
funds to be distributed differently than the original plan if the Project in one of the two cities
is seriously lagging; and iv) define clearly the periodic goals to be achieved, and the
monitoring and evaluation plan. Any modifications to the Operating Guidelines have to be
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the text of the document that will establish the trust deeds for the
Implementing Units in Guadalajara and Monterrey, which include their obligation to observe
the Operating Guidelines; (c) the obligation of holding together with the Bank annual reviews
and a mid-term review, and the targets to be achieved; at the time of the mid-term review, the
Bank will have the option of canceling the balance of both grants if sales have not reached at
least 70% of the agreed targets (as a percent of the total FLs to be installed); (d) the
commitment of CFE of preparing semi-anmnal progress reports for the Project, a project
completion report, and of disseminating the results of the Project through a seminar directed
to Mexican and international audiences; and (e) the obligation of CFE to expand the
geographic area of the Project, if needed, to sell more FLs until the full amount of the grants
has been transferred to the participants of the Project. In the event of misprocurement or any
misuse of the grant funds, the Bank may require the repayment in whole or in part of both
grants.



7
23.   Condition for Si,enature of Grant and Proiect Agreements: delivery by CFE to the
Bank of a Supplemental Letter, presenting the final version of the Project Operating
Guidelines. Conditions of Effectiveness: (i) execution of the trust deeds for the Implementing
Units for Guadalajara and Monterrey; (ii) establishment and staffing of the central Project
Advisory Committee and the local Technical Committees, and appointment of local managers,
with qualified personnel satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) execution of the Norwegian grant
agreement.
24.   Environmental Aspects: As a signatory of the FCCC, Mexico is committed to
contribute to the objectives of the Convention; this Project will be a positive step in that
direction. Due to the benefits that it produces for the environment, the Project has been
c.assifed as Category C. The Project will result in: (a) global environmental benefits through
a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of about 118,000 tons annually, thus producing
climate related benefits mostly for Mexico. This figure is likely to increase through the "free
driver effect" (or induced sales) of the project throughout Mexico; and (b) national
environmental benefits through reduced emissions of sulphur dioxide (3,000 tons annually),
nitrogen oxides (205 tons annually) and particulates. These reductions will improve local air
quality and result in positive health effects and less damage to crops, vegetation and buildings.
The reduction of emissions from power stations in the Project areas will add favorably to the
national initiatives to deal with these environmental problems. A more detailed analysis of the
environmental benefits of the Project, particularly of the GHG, is presented in Annex 4.
25.   Project Benefits: The execution of the Project will result in substantial economic
benefits to: i) the Project participants who will enjoy a comparable or higher lighting level at
reduced cost; and ii) society at large and CFE, which will be able to postpone investments for
about 100 MW and save about 169 GWh (or 311,000 barrels of Bunker C and 34,000 tons of
coal) annually. The economic evaluation of the Project, including a risk analysis, is included
as Annex 3. The results show that for Mexico the internal rate of return, IRR, exceeds 56%
for the various sensitivity tests considered; for CPE alone, the IRR exceeds 32% for all
probable events, and for the participants the minimum IRR calculated was over 100%. The
Project thus has very attractive internal rates of return for all parties involved and the results
are very robust even under very pessimistic assumptions.
26.   Project Risks: The main risks associated wit the Project are: (a) market penetration
might be slower than expected, which might result in higher Project costs as more costly
marketing strategies would have to be pursued; (b) the Fis might be installed in places where
they are used for less than four hours a day on average, as assumed. However, the Project
remains viable even assuming an average use of only two hours per day; (c) the voltage
fluctuations in the Mexican power system might be such as to significantly reduce the lifetime
of the FLs; in order to reduce this risk, the specifications will require that fluctuations of up
to plus and minus 10% have no effect on the lifetime of the lamps (voltage regulation is
smaller than this in Guadalajara and Monterrey); and (d) the FLs might fail to reach their
projected lifetime, even if there were no excessive voltage fluctuations. Given that the
lifetime of the FL is expected to extend over several years, CFE will perform standard
accelerated tests that will be complemented with adequate supplier guarantees. For its part,
CFE will guarantee to program participants, replacement of any FL that fails within two years
of the date of purchase; experience has shown that most defective Els will fail within this
period of time.



ANNEX 1
Page I of 5
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Project Organization
1.    The organization chosen for the Project is similar to that currently used
successfully by CFE for the home thermal insulation improvement project, i.e, the
trust account "Fideicomiso para el Programa de Aislamiento TErmico" (FIPATERM),
which is being implemented in Baja California (Mexicali) and Sonora (San Luis Rio
Colorado) to reduce the air conditioning load. To implement the "Proyecto de Uso
Racional de Iluminaci6n en Mexico" (ILUMEX) project (Spanish acronym for the
Project), two Implementing Units (IUs) will be established in Guadalajara and
Monterrey to administer the trust accounts opened in BANOBRAS. The TUs will be
known as FILUMEX Guadalajara and FILUMEX Monterrey. To set policy and
supervise compliance with Project objectives, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has
been set up in CFE's Headquarters in Mexico City.
2.    The Head of the PCU or Project Coordinator, is the Subgerente de Evaluaci6n
(Deputy Manager for Project Evaluation) of the Subdirecci6n de Distribucion (Direc-
torate for Distribution). The Project Coordinator will have full time dedication to the
Project; other members of the PCU include a representative of "Programa de Ahorro
de Energia del Sector El6ctrico" (PAESE), a representative of the engineering staff of
CFE (responsible for the preparation of the technical specifications of the FLs) and a
consultant specialized in economic analysis of projects. This group has been in
charge of the Project to date and is familiar with its background, objectives and goals.
Their members have also been involved in the small pilot lighting projects imple-
mented by CFE with its own funds and can therefore apply the lessons learned in
those projects to the ILUMEX project.
3.    The main functions of the PCU are the following: (a) support the Distribution
Divisions in Jalisco and Golfo Norte (which serve Guadalajara and Monterrey, respec-
tively) as well as the Managers of the corresponding Implementing Units; (b)
supervise Project implementation; (c) propose the strategy and studies (marketing,
technical and economic) to monitor and evaluate Project results; (d) based on the
reports submitted by the Managers of the IUs, prepare the progress reports needed
during Project implementation (including those typically required by the Bank); (e)
procure the goods and services that will be required by the ILUMEX project; (f)
prepare the Operating Guidelines for the Project, and (g) inform the authorities of
CFE (through the Project Committee mentioned in next paragraph) of the advances in
Project implementation.
4.    CFE will supervise the Project through a high level Project Advisory
Committee whose members will be the Deputy Director for Distribution, the Director
General of FIDE, the Distribution Manager of CFE and the Commercial Manager of



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
CFE. The President of the Committee will be the Deputy Director for Distribution.
The functions of the Committee will include the following: (a) appoint the members
of the PCU; (b) approve the strategy for Project implementation developed by the
PCU; (c) approve the details of the two trust
accounts to be opened in BANOBRAS to finance the two Implementing Units; (d)
appoint the presidents of the Technical Committees of each of the two Implementing
Units, and (e) meet periodically to review the progress reports prepared by the PCU
and recommend those measures that it deems necessary to reach the goals of the
Project.
5.    CFE will also provide technical support to the Project. The specifications for
the procurement of the FLs have been prepared by CFE's Engineering Department in
consultation with CFE's Procurement Office. CFE will also be responsible for the
bidding process and the procurement of the FLs, which will then be handed over to
the two Implementing Units in Guadalajara and Monterrey. Finally, for deferred
term sales, CFE's Service Centers at Guadalajara and Monterrey will be responsible
for including in the customer's electricity bill the amount financed to purchase the
FLs.
6.   In order to implement the Project, two decentralized lUs wiil be established,
one in Guadalajara and one in Monterrey. To ensure the administrative and financial
independence needed for the expeditious implementation of the ILUMEX project,
these units will be financed through two trust accounts ("Fideicomisos") opened in
BANOBRAS. All funds provided for the project, as well as the payments made by
the participants who purchase the FLs on credit, will be deposited in these trust
accounts. The regulations applicable to these trust accounts will establish that the
funds shall only be used ior the purposes of the ILUMEX project. The trust accounts
operating regulations will allow the use of funds in any city in the two Distribution
Divisions that serve Guadalajara and Monterrey (Jalisco and Golfo Norte, respective-
ly), although efforts will be concentrated initially in these two cities which together
have about 1.1 million residential consumers. Nevertheless, the proposed
arrangement will allow for the Project to be extended to the two regions, which in
essence would double the nunber of potential participants (there are about 2.5 million
residential consumers in both regions). This option would be exercised if the demand
in both cities does not develop as forecasted.
7.    The administration of each IU will be the responsibility of a Technical
Committee whose members will be: (a) the Manager of the Regional Distribution
Division (Jalisco or Golfo Norte); (b) the Deputy Manager of the saine Division; (c)
the Deputy Manager of the Commercial Division of the same Region; (d) the Head of
PAESE of the same Division, and (e) a representative of BANOBRAS who will be a
non-voting member of the Committee. The President of the Committee will be the
Manager of the Regional Distribution Division.
8.    The functions of the Technical Committee will include the following: (a)
approve: (i) the annual program and budget; (ii) the agreement to be signed between



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
BANOBRAS and CFE for collection of the amounts owed by customers for the
credit sales of FLs, and (b) monitor the flow of funds for the Project, including
CFE's contributions. The Committee will meet at least once a month and since all its
voting members are part of CFEs staff, it is expected that there will be very close
coordination with the PCU.
9.    To benefit from the local expertise that is available, the Technical Comnnittee
may decide to establish a local Advisory Committee whose members would include
representatives of: (a) the State (Monterrey or Guadalajara) Energy Conservation
Commission; (b) the National Chamber of Contractors; (c) the National Chamber of
Commerce; (d) the National Chamber of Electrical Equipment Manufacturers; (e) the
local University or Technical Institute, and (f) FIDE. This Committee would meet
when convened by the Technical Committee and would act strictly as an advisory
group.
10.   The day-to-day administration of each trust fund will be the responsibility of a
Project Manager. The Project Manager will be appointed by the Technical
Committee, and he will then proceed to select the staff needed for Project
implementation. It is estimated that the staff will include at least the following: (a) an
administrative manager; (b) a commercial manager; (c) a warehouse manager; (d)
sales supervisors (to supervise sales at CFE's service centers as well as door-to-door
sales); (e) sales agents and (f) secretaries. The administrative and commercial
managers and the remaining staff will be appointed by the Project Manager.
11.   The main functions of the Project Manager will include the following: (a)
propose for approval by the Technical Committee: (i) the annual program and budget
for the Implementing Units, and (ii) the agreement to be signed between BANOBRAS
and CEE authorizing the collection from customers the bi-monthly payments for FLs;
(b) monitor Project implementation progress and propose, and when necessary take
appropriate measures to ensure Project success; (c) prepare all reports specified in the
Operating Guidelines to keep all interested parties informed of the progress in Project
implementation; (d) prepare procedures for the storage, distribution, sale and installa-
tion of FLs; (e) answer customer's queries and, based on the Operating Guidelines,
settle complaints related to the performance of the FLs; (f) authorize payments to
contractors that provide marketing, evaluation and installation services for the Project,
and (g) appoint the administrative and commercial managers, as well as the rest of the
required staff.
12.   For a better appreciation of the proposed organization, the organization charts
of the structures to be adopted in Headquarters and in the field are shown in pages 4
and 5.



0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w=
~~~ v}
U~~~~~~~~~~~
ON   iK-1 ---X
-     .illI-    liii   L....C!  j~Ij1--
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



IMPLEMENTING UNIT (I U                                   SUPPORT PROVIDED BY CFE
(OR FILUMEX)
OF flw E
- ...-.I.---..-..-.--..-.----.~~~~~~~~~~..........
.... ...   ---- - -- ---  ------
A TA-' CENI I                                       M                E              MIA
C3 i j , ArI                                                           I0- ....    11_1....   
.....   ....._...-  -MSSlRAHI    C UTOEElR                                  CUSOMMERL  smuOI
I                              .                       IAI.0
A-SC.TNO               SUPEr}MonC !                                  n
|                                                                         ----III   I            IB
l   l                 I      .   I       8      6~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ERUCE  SERUCE 
,_   l  .                     *          l      ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~CENTER   E1E 
|l                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I                           
- SALES ACTIVITIES ___                                  _    _ _____-  - --   BILLING &COLLECTION ACTIMTIES
LA.-



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Technical Specifications ror the FLs
1.    Since FLs are a relatively new product, the corresponding technical
specifications have been evolving and will probably continue to do so. In order to
prepare its specifications, CFE drew on the experience of other utilities, mainly those
in the United States of America, as well as on the results of the small pilot projects
that it has recently implemented. CFE also profited from the comments and
suggestions offered by several manufacturers of FLs. For the purpose of this Project,
the term "FLs" includes compact fluorescent light bulbs and circular fluorescent
bulbs.
2.    Given the nature of the product, experience shows that its appearance and
dimensions are as important as its technical characteristics; otherwise, it will not be
accepted by the public. Similarly, and for the same reason, color rendering is very
important. Both the appearance and the color rendering of the FLs must be pleasing
to the eye.
3.    Technically, it is very important that the FLs deliver the expected efficiency
measured in lumens per watt, that they reach their expected lifetime, that they have a
high power factor and that the harmonic distortion that they introduce into the system
be as small as possible- Since IFLs to be procured under the Project are to some
extent "tailor made", some of these factors have been requested in the specifications,
while others will be the subject of a bonus or a penalty in the evaluation of the
tenders to be received.
4.    The specifications require that the FLs be manufactred in accordance with the
following standards: American National Standards Institute, ANSI, the International
Electrotechnical Commission, IEC, and the Illumination Engineering Society, IES.
The specifications also state that other internationally recognized standards that
provide the same performance, or exceed it, will also be acceptable.
5.    The specifications cover three Types of FLs (in accordance with their
luminous output in lumens), and two Categories (in accordance to the color of their
light or internal temperature). The main technical characteristics specified by CFE
are the following:
(a) Operating voltage: 120 volts plus/minus ten percent for Monterrey, and
127 volts plus/minus ten percent for Guadalajara.
(b) Efficiency: minimum 47 lumens per watt.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
(c) Luminous flux (at 25 degrees Celsius): (i) Type 1: From 750 to 900
lumens; (ii) Type 2: From 1,000 to 1,200 lumens, and (iii) Type 3: From
1,400 to 1,700 lumens. The luminous flux must be equal or greater than 90%
of the nominal value during 1,000 hours of operation.
(d) Color temperature (degrees Kelvin): (i) Category A: 4,000 to 4,200, and
(ii) Category B: 2,600 to 2,800.
(e) Color Rendering Index: Greater than 80.
(f) Operating life: 10,000 hours.
(g) Power factor: Equal to or greater than 90%.
(h) Harmonic distortion: Not greater than: (i) third harmonic: 30%; (ii) fifth
harmonic: 10%; (iii) seventh harmonic: 7%; (iv) ninth harmonic: 5%; (v)
eleventh through forty ninth harmonic: 3%, and (vi) total harmonic distortion:
33%.
(i) Total length: Not more than 8 inches for all Types.
6.    Each FL will be provided with a thermal overload protection device that will
automatically turn it off in case it overheats and that will automatically turn it back on
when it cools off. The specifications will accept both electronic and electromagnetic
ballasts, as well as a single piece (ballast and lamp integrated in a single unit) or two
piece FLs (ballast and lamp manufactured as two independent units that can be
separated and reconnected at will). In case a two piece FL is quoted, the bidder will
guarantee that tne complete unit will operate as required in the specifications.
7.    Bidders will be requested to furnish three samples for each type of FL quoted.
These samples will be tested in the Lighting Laboratory of Mexico City, widely
recognized as of high quality, with respect to: (a) operating voltage; (b) efficiency; (c)
luminous flux; (d) color temperature; (e) power factor, and (f) harmonic distortion.
CFE has reserved the right to declare non-responsive any tender that, as a result of
the tests, fails to meet the specifications.
8.    Tender evaluation will include a bonus for exceeding the required efficiency
(47 lumens per watt) and power factor (90 %). The tender documents include two
formulas for these purposes, so that all prospective bidders will know beforeband how
these two factors will be evaluated and design their product accordingly. Those bids
that do not meet the minimum efficiency and power factor (47 lumens/watt and 90 %,
respectively) will be rejected.
9.    CEE will choose at random 20 lamps from the first delivery made by the
selected contractor, and these FLs will be subjected to the same tests mentioned in
paragraph 7, as well as a test to confirm that the luminous flux will be maintained as



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
required by the specifications. If the tests show that the FLs fail to meet the
specifications, CFE reserves the right to reject the first delivery or to cancel the
contract. CFE will also use a standard procedure to test the life of the FLs. For this
purpose the lamps operate continuously, except for the periods in which the standards
call that they shall be tum off. This procedure will allow CFE to know the results in
about 15 months after the start of the test. If the test shows that the FLs have failed
to meet the standards, the contractor will deliver, free of charge, a number of FLs
equal to the number originally delivered multiplied by a factor equal to the difference
between 51 % (as established by the applicable standard) and the percentage of FLs
that lasted 10,000 hours. This obligation will be guaranteed by a provision included
in the model for the performance security included in the tender documents.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Project Economic Analysis
1.    The project entails costs and produces benefits for Mexico, CFE and the consumers,
consequently, three different analyses have been prepared and are discussed in the following
paragraphs.
Economic Analysis from the Perspective of Mexico.
2.    From this perspective, the costs correspond to the project costs, which, as is the norm
in economic analysis, are expressed in constant terms (price level of October, 1993). Given
the relative openness of the Mexican economy, the project costs have been taken as economic
costs free of distortions. The basic premises of the analysis are the following:
(a) The FLs are assumed co be procured and installed over a two year period;
however, during the first year, only 15% of the benefits accrue. This increases to 60%
during the second year and to 100% the third year.
(b) Although the expected life of the FLs is 10,000 hours, for the purposes of the
analysis it is assumed conservatively that they will last only 8,760 hours.
(c) The incandescent lights that would be replaced by the FLs are assumed to have a
life of 750 hours and, on the basis of the prevailing local market conditions, to cost about
US$0.32.
(d) Energy losses in the Mexican power system amount to 18%, while capacity losses
at peak time are 22%. These figures include losses in generation, transmission and
distribution.
(e) Studies carried out by CFE show that the peak coincidence factor for the use of
FLs in the residential sector is 0.82 when they are used four hours daily, and 0.7 when used
two hours daily.
(f) Based on pro-forma quotations received by CFE, the average cif price of the FLs
has been taken as US$8. The additional indirect costs, which include all other costs needed
to implement the project, amount to 48% of the direct cost of the FLs.
(g) Based on studies recently completed for CFE by specialized consultants, the long
run marginal costs (1RMC) at the distribution level and during peak hours are US$132.50
per kW/year and US$0.062 per kWh.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
3.    The benefits of the project from the point of view of Mexico are three: (a) the value
of the capacity that need not be added to the system due to the installation of the FLs; (b) the
value of the energy that will not be generated for the same reason, and (c) the value of the
incandescent bulbs that will not be installed. The capacity and energy savings are valued at
their LRMC. The cost corresponds to the procurement and installation of the FLs, including
all the indirect costs needed to implement the project. Assuming that the FLs are used on
average four hours daily, that the cost is as estimated, and on the basis of the above
mentioned assumptions the calculated intemal rate of return is 135 %.
4.    A risk analysis was performed considering two risk factors: variations in project cost
and the number of hours that the FLs are used. The different events and their associated
probabilities are as follows:
Cost related events                  Probability
a. The cost is as estimated                60%
b. There is a cost overrun of 20%          25%
c. There is a cost overun because
10% of the FLs fail and must be
replaced anmually                       10%
d. There is a cost underrun of 20%         5%
Time of usage related events         Probability
g. FLs are used four hours daily           50%
h. FLs are used two hours daily            50%
5. The internal rate of return (IRR) calculation for each combination of events and the
cumulative distribution function (CDF) are the following:
Combined          Combined
Event             Probabiliq               IRR         CDF
d&g                3 %                     189%         3%
a&g               30%                      135%         33%
c&g                5%                      132%         38%
d&h                3%                      111%         40%
b&g               13%                       84%         53%
a&h               30%                      83%          83%
c&h                5%                       83%         88%
b&h               13%                       56%        100%



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION FUNCTION OF IRRs
NATIONAL PERSPECTIVE
IRR Y
100
zeD          - - -  - - - - - - -  - -  - -  -
too ----- _-------------_--_
..4  3.3S   37.5  40    53.0  53.5  0tw5
CDF X
6.   The expected value of the economic IRR is 101%, while the Cumulative Distribution
Function (CDF) vs the IRR shows that with a probability of 83 % percent the IRR will equal
or exceed 83%. Furthermore, in all cases it will exceed 56%. Clearly, the project is very
attractive for Mexico and its internal rate of return is very robust.
Economic Analysis from the Perspective of CFE.
7.   In order to estimate the economic benefit for CFE, the FL distribution among the
different customer classes must first be determined. The sales program envisionaed by CFE
is be the following:
FLs Sold per Customer Category
Category    Consumption    Monterrey    Guadalajara      Total
per month
Ul         0-25 kWh       86,557        120,120      206,677
U2        26-50 kWh       60,847        83,720       144,566
U3        51-75 kWh       98,555       108,290       206,844
U4        76-100 kWh      124,266       133,770      258,035
U5       101-200 kWh     331,659       318,500       650,160
U6        Ž201 kWh        155,118       145,600      300,717
|  TOTAL    __________     857,000       910,000       1,767,000



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
8.    The number of customers, average monthly consumption per customer class and
applicable energy charges are as follows:
Cate-  Consumers      Consumers   Average         Average      Energy
gory   Guadalajara    Monterrey    Consumption   Consump-    Charge
Guadalajara   tion Monter-  US$/
rey          kWh'
Ul       74,830        55,451        10 kWh        6 kWh        0.02
U2       52,037        39,035       41 kWh        37 kWh        0.03
U3       67,888        63,038       70 kWh        61 kWh       0.03
U4       83,323        79,629        87 kWh       88 kWh        0.04
U5       199,908      212,799       127 kWh       143 kWh      0.04
U6       90,581        99,333       284 kWh       464 kWh      0.14
9.    The assumptions for the analysis from the point of view of CFE are the same as those
listed in paragraph 2 above; however, an additional factor must be included in this case. To
make the project attractive to the participants, and to share with them the benefits of the
project, CFE has decided to introduce a rebate in the program. On average, the magnitude
of this rebate amounts to 63% of the total cost of the FLs, which includes all indirect costs
of implementing the ILUMEX project.
10.  In this analysis, the benefits to CFE are the capacity that need not be instilled and the
energy that will not be generated, valued at their LRMC. The cost is given by the rebate to
be absorbed by CFE and by the foregone income, as the energy saved by the FLs will not be
consumed by the participants. In order to reflect the situation as perceived by CFE, this
energy is valued at what CFE charges its consumers. The rate of return to be calculated
fterefore corresponds to a financial intemal rate of retum.
11.   As in the previous case, a risk analysis was conducted, but there is now an additional
risk factor as the participation of the different categories of consumers might be different
than that anticipated by CFE. Two different events have been included in the risk analysis to
account for consumer participation, as follows:
Consumer participation related events    Probabiliy
e. Participation is as expected by CFE     50 X
f. Only consumers in categories U4, US
and U6 participate                       50%
1. This figure does not include the maintenance charge that is independent of consumption and in addition to it.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
12.   When it is assumed that only consumers in categories U4, US and U6 participate, it
has also been assumed that the FLs originally assigned to customers in categories Ul, U2
and U3 are distributed among categories U4, U5 and U6. For this purpose, it has been
assumed that 10% of the FLs originally assigned to other categories are now sold to
customers in category U4, and another 10% to customers in category U5. The rest, 80%, is
sold to customers in category U6.
13. An intemal rate of return (IRR) calculation was prepared for each combination of events
with the following results:
Combined           Combined
Event              Probability       IRR          CDF
d&e&g              2%                 114%          2%
d&e&h              2%                 90%           4%
a&e&g              21%                86%          25%
c&e&g              4%                 83%          28%
d&f&g               1 %               71%          29%
d&f&h               1 %               71%          30%
a&e&h              21%                70%          51%
c&e&h              4%                 69%          54%
b&e&g              9%                 56%          63%
a&f&h              9%                 55%          72%
a&f&g              9%                 54%          81%
c&f&g              2%                 53%          82%
c&f&h              2%                 51%          84%
b&e&h              9%                 48%          93%
b&f&h              4%                 38%          96%
b&f&g              4%                 32%         100%
PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION FUNCTIOIi OF IRRs
C F E PERSPECTIVE
IRA 
120
10    -_   -  -  -  -_ --
10 -   --- ----- --  --
20  -   - ==2 -   -   -   __ -   __ - _                                                
1.8  3.5  2e  ze.a   54.0 62.0    u2.s  9z.s 96.3  ian
COf X



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
14.   The expected value of the IRR is 66%, while the Cumulative Distribution Function
(CDF) vs the IRR shows that with a probability of 81 % percent the IRR will equal or exceed
54%. Furthermore, in all cases it will exceed 32%. Quite clearly, the project is very
attractive for CFE, even assuming a rebate of 63% of the total cost of the FLs, and its
internal rate of return is very robust.
Economic Analysis from the Perspective of the Participant.
15.   In this case, the benefits to the participants are the energy that will be saved by the
FLs and therefore not consumed or paid for by the participants, as well as the value of the
incandescent bulbs that the participants will replace with FLs. The cost is given by the
portion of the total cost of the FL (37%) that will be borne by the participants, financed over
24 months. In order to reflect the situation as perceived by the participants, the energy
saved is valued at what CFE charges its consumers. The rate of return to be calculated
therefore corresponds to a financial internal rate of return.
16.   As in the previous cases, a risk analysis was conducted which included the risk factor
related to the participation of the different categories of consumers. The analysis was carried
out for the participants as a group. This understates the IRR for those in the higher
consumption groups and overstates it for those in the lower consumption groups. However,
since the IRR is so high, there is no need to refine the anaiysis. In fact, the lowest IRR
calculated was 151 % and it corresponded to event b&e&h.
17.   The IRRs for the rest of the events are even higher and therefore not listed here. It is
clear that under the worst case scenario, the IRR for the participants as a group is 151 % and
this event has a probability of only 8.75%. Therefore, with a probability of 91.25% the IRR
will be even greater. It can be therefore said that the ILUMEX project is very attractive for
the participants as a group and that this is so under all events considered in the analysis.



ANNEX 4
Page I of 3
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOI' PROJECT
Elnvironmental Aspects
1.    The Project's benefits for the environment include the reduction of emissions of green
house gases (GHGs), methane and CO2, as well as other contaminants such as SO2 and NO,.
The Project will also help decrease the volume of particles in the air and the volume of coal
ashes produced by the coal-fired thermal power stations. Some of the Project benefits, such
as the reduction in S02, NO., particulate and ash accrue to the local environment, while
others, such as the reduction of GHGs (CO2 and methane) have global repercussions.
However, even local effects might have international consequences if they occur in the
neighborhood of international borders. Such is the case of acid rain, which might fall on a
neighboring country or might fall in the drainage area of rivers that later drain into rivers or
lakes that separate, or run through, two or more countries.
2.    To quantify the benefits to the environment, CFE drew on the work recently
completed by their consultants, UITESA of Spain, who evaluated the contaminants emitted
by CFE's eight thermal power stations, among others, NO2, SO2 and particulate in the air.
For the GHGs, CFE used typical figures provided in the Feasibility Study for the ILUMEX
project prepared by another consultant, the International Institute for Energy Conservation,
IIEC. With these figures, CFE simulated the operation of the system assuming that the load
in Monterrey and Guadalajara is reduced because of the installation of the FLs; a load
reduction in these two cities will affect mainly the power stations nearby the two cities,
including a thermal power station near Monterrey which has emissions above the level
produced by the remaining seven power stations.
3.    On the basis of UITESA's work, IIEC's figures and CFE's own load dispatch
simulation, the annual reduction of different contaminants due to the ILUMEX project has
been calculated by CFE. This resulted in an annual reduction of CO. equal to 118,000 tons,
while those of SO2 and NO2 would reach 3,000 and 205 tons, respectively. Finally, the
reduction in particulate and methane will be 200 and 250 tons, respectively. These calcula-
tions are based on replacing 1.7 million incandescent light bulbs with FLs, on an average use
of four hours daily for each FL and on energy losses of 18%.
4.    The total direct emission reductions attributable to the Project is rather robust to
changes in Project parameters. Delays in the replacement of failed FLs and the use of the
FLs for less than 4 hours a day will only delay the emission reductions, but the total benefits
will be the same as long as the useful life of the FLs is not affected. In addition to the
emission reductions that will result directly from the Project, there will be an indirect benefit
due to the "free driver effect" (induced sales of FLs caused by the Project). However, over
the longer tenn, there will also be behavior adjustnents by the consumers, which could lead
to diminished emission reductions. For example, consumers might decide to install FLs with
a greater lighting level fian the incandescent bulb that they replaced. It is also not clear that



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
after the FLs reach the end of their useful life the consumers will replace them with other
FLs purchase at full cost (which however will almost certainly be lower in real terms than
chat prevailing in the market today as the use of these bulbs becomes more widespread in
Mexico and elsewhere). Finally, the fuel mix of the Mexican thermal power stations is
likely to change in the future towards fuel with less carbon content due to local
environmental considerations. Given the uncertainty surrounding the longer term effects,
they have not been incorporated in the analysis presented herein.
5.    The economic analysis of the ILUMEX project presented in Annex 3 shows that it is
very attractive even if its environmental benefits are not considered. Therefore, it could be
expected that it should be implemented by the local beneficiaries. There are, however,
several informational and institutional barriers to the diffusion of the FL technology for
residential use, which the ILUMEX project will contribute to overcome. The most important
of these barriers are: i) lack of information about the benefits of the FLs, ii) high initial
investnents, and iii) investment constraints imposed on CFE for macroeconomic reasons. For
these reasons, the participation of the GEF and other donors is essendal to obtain the
reductions of GHGs and the other benefits such as the reduction of local contamination and
the dissemination of energy efficient technology.
6.    Although there is no consensus on hov to evaluate the economie benefits of reducing
GHGs and other contaminants, Data Resources Inc., (DRI) has estimated the cost per ton of
CO, to stabilize emissions at their 1988 level in the year 2000, reduce them by 10 % in 2010
and by 20 % in 2020 in several OECD countries'. These costs are in addition to taxes that
have already been put into effect by the countries concerned. The costs estimated by DRI in
1989 US$ per ton of CO2 for the years 1995 and 2000 are the following:
COUNTRY                      1995               2000
United States                   9                 33
Canada                          9                 39
Japan                          43                110
Australia                      20                 55
Germany                        30                 80
France                         38                 95
Italy                          22                 54
UK                              7                 20
Sweden                          6                 16
Spain                          50                121
Netherlands                    18                 46
Greece                         27                 69
1. "Economic Effects of Using Carbon Taxes to Reduce CO, Emissions in MaLor OECD Countries", Data
Resources Inc. (McGraw-Hill, 1992).



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
5. These figures would have to be converted to 1993 US$ in order to fully capture the
bencfit of the ILUMEX project. However, even in 1989 prices and based on the average of
the 1995 figure (US$23 per ton), the annual benefits of CO2 reduction attributable to the
project would have a value of US$2.7 million. This figure will almost triple if the average
corresponding to the figures for year 2000 (US$61) is used. These figures are conservative
in light of studies carried out in Norway which have estimated (in 1990 prices) the cost to
stabilize the Norwegian CO2 emissions at their 1989 level in the year 2000 at approximately
US$184 per ton. That the benefits are conservative is also demonstrated by calculations
prepared for the OECD countries which show that to stabilize the CO2 emissions of the
OECD countries as a whole will about US$60 per ton.
6.    Another measure of the value of the reduction of the GHGs can be obtained by using
the carbon taxes applied in some countries as a proxy to value the benefit of the reduction.
There are nominal and effective CO2 tax rates in effect in 1993 for the Nordic countries; the
effective tax rate is defined as an average tax paid on all emissions, and is lower than the
nominal tax rate due to exemptions for some sectors and fuels. The applicable taxes in US$
per ton of CO2 are:
COINTRY            1993 NOMINAL RATE    1993 EFFECTIVE RATE
Demnark                 15                        7
Finland                  4                        4
Norway                  56                        20
Sweden                   55                       33
EC Proposal             25
If the average of the nominal rates (US$26) is used, the annual savings would be valued at
US$3 million; if the average of the effective rates is used (US$16), the figure is US$1.9
million. Regardless of the figure used, the benefits resulting from tL±e reduction of CO2 are
significant and as a minimum can be estimated at US$1.9 million annually.
7.    There are additional benefits attributable to the project, particularly those related to
the reduction of the local environmental degradation. However, no figures are available to
assign a monetary value to these benefits, althlough they are clearly important. It is expected
that as Mexico in general, and CFE in particular, continue with their efforts to reduce S02
and NO,, emissions, relevant cost figures will become available. The benefits of reducing
these emissions can then be calculated as part of the evaluation to be carried out as the
Project is completed.
2. OECD Environment Monograph 78/1993: 'A Comparison of Carbon Taxes in Selected OECD Countries".



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Project Monitorinu and Evaluation
1.    As explained in Annex 1, Project Organization, Project monitoring and
evaluation will mosdy be under the responsibility of the Project managers of the
Implementing Units at both cities. The Project Coordination Unit, PCU, at CFE's
Headquarters will supervise these activities and propose the adjustments as needed.
Given the specialized nature of these activities, the Project managers and the PCU
will be assisted by qualified consultants in the areas of marketing, canvassing and
interviewing, as well as in Project evaluation. The terms of reference of these
consultants can be found in Annex 7.
2.    Project evaluation will gauge the achievement of the stated goals of the
Project, including energy savings and the so-called "free driver' effect, which
measures the sales by commercial retailers induced by the Project. It is envisioned
as a continuous process, which will also provide information to make adjustments in
Project implementation, particularly with regards to marketing strategies, to ensure
Project success.
3.    Base Line Survey. Project monitoring and control will start with a sales
survey three months before the sale of FLs beginse, and this will constitute the
"base line" for Project monitoring and evaluation. This survey will determine prices
and monthly sales of incandescent bulbs and FLs, including their type and charac-
teristics. It will also determine the number of units available in warehouses and in
the stores of bulk and retail suppliers, as well as the number of suppliers and their
sales volume. A similar survey will be carried out at the end of the Project and this
will provide the information required to estimate the "free driver" effect.
4.    Sales and Participants Satisfaction Survey. As part of the Project monitoring
and control, the following activities will take place three months after Project start.
and again a year after that:
(a) an evaluation will be carried out of the FL sales made in CFE's
agencies in Guadalajara and Monterrey. Its purpose will be to determine any
shortcomings in the sales process, the need for additional training for the sales
force, storage and inventory controls for the FLs, information systems and coordi-
nation with PAESE and FIDE, if needed. A similar evaluation would be undertaken
three months after the start of the door-to-door sales process. In both cases, the
1.   It is assumed June of 1994 as the date to start sales of CFLs and Project implementarion.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
evaluation will be based on interviews and conversations with the Project staff in
both cities.
(b) a survey will be made among Project participants. The survey
will be used to obtain the following information: (i) number and types of FLs
installed, place where they were installed, the characteristics of the incandescent
bulbs that they replaced and number of hours of use of the FLs; (ii) lighting level
and quality, start-up time of the FL, prices, financing terms and how useful the
participant found the information provided by the sales personnel; (iii) reasons for
selecting the type of FL chosen; (iv) customers' perception of the savings realized,
reasons for purchasing FLs, familiarity with FLs before Project start and knowledge
gained since, purchases of FLs made prior to Project start, independent of the
Project and probable future purchases; quality of the customer service provided by
the Project, and (v) socio-economic characteristics of the participants (type and area
of the home, number of family members, income, age, etc).
(c) a survey will also be carried out among non-participants in the
Project. The aim of this survey will be to determine the reasons why they have not
participated, together with the socio-economic infornation of the non-participants.
5.    Survey on Hours of Use of FLs. Six months and eighteen months after
Proiect start, a survey will be carried out to determine the number of hours per day
that participants use the FLs. To this end, metering equipment will be installed in a
selected sample of participants to record the hours during which the FLs are used
every day. This will allow the Project to determine the savings accruing to those
participants, as well as the peak coincidence factors. On the basis of this
information, as well as studies carried out to determine the consumption in kWh
before and after the installation of the FLs of a random sample of participants, it
will be possible to calculate the benefits to the participants, CFE, Mexico and the
environment.
6.    Mid-term Project Implementation Review. On the basis of the above
mentioned surveys, a comprehensive mid-term Project implementation review will
be carried out with the participation of the Bank, not later than June 30, 1995. The
results of the surveys will be discussed and appropriate measures will be taken as a
result. In particular, if the target sale levels mentioned in the Operating Guidelines
have not been reached, the Bank and CFE will discuss and agree on whether the
ILUMEX project should de discontinued or modified. If the targets have not been
reached, but it is decided that the Project should continue, then remedial measures to
improve sales will be adopted. These measures might include, among others,
expanding and/or training the sales force, improving the advertising campaign,
resorting to setting up temporary and portable sales stands in selected neighborhoods
and, as a last resort, proceed with a door-to-door sales effort.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
7.    End of Project Review. Upon Project completion, expected for the end of
1997, an end-of-Project review will be undertaken with the participation of the
Bank. During this review, Project results will be critically evaluated and the lessons
learned in ILUMEX will be incorporated in any new project that may be carried out
by CFE. Furthermore, during the review meeting, agreement will be reached on the
format, content, participants and date of a seminar to disseminate the results of the
ILUMEX project. It is expected that the lessons learned will be disseminated among
a sizeable international audience.
8.    Final Project Evaluation. Six months after Project completion, a final
evaluation report will be prepared and submitted to the Bank. This report will
include the results of a survey to be carried out among the participants to determine
how satisfied they were with the FLs, how many FLs failed and had to be replaced,
whether they remained where they were originally installed, whether more FLs were
purchased through commercial retailers and other similar data.
9.    Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators: The attached table shows the goals
and dates agreed with the Bank to monitor and evaluate the Project



Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Events
Junc 94      Dec 94       June 95      DOC 9S       June 96      Dec 96      June 97       Dc 97         i998
Accumulated galoa of CFLs
GCuadalaJara                                               91,000      318,000      546,000      773,000      876,000
Monterrey                                                  86,000      300,000      514,000      728,000      824,000
Total PmjwcC                                               177,000      618,000    1,060,000    1,501,000    1,700,000
Consultants
Markeling Suncy                             I lired     AAAA                      A A                                                 MM
Promo lon and Advertising            l-lred             AAAA         AAAA
Monitoring and Evaluation                  I-litd                    AAAA                      AAAA                      AMA                       AAAA
Laboratory Tealng                           Hired       AAAA         AAAA         AAAA         AAAA
Reporla
Base Line Sunvey                                        XX0CC                                                                                     xxXC
Sales and Panicipants Satisladlon Survy                             X1X0                        0CXX
Howu of Use Swwy                                                     1XX0C
Mid-Term PMeet Implementatlon Review 1/                             X1OC
iEnd ol Project Report                                                                                                  XXYC
rinal Projet Evsalusllon                                                                                                             X7OX         XXOC
Semi-Annual Proegs Reports                     WC XOK OOC XX                      1CC          XXX0C        XXXX        10C          1
Audiling Reporsu                                                                  XX..            ,0C                   .       ,C   .    .
Notes: AAAA: Consultants' Acivitles                           XXXX: Report duethlssemester                            1/   Meaelng In Auguat 1995



ANNEX 6
Page I of 12
MEXICO
HIGH EFlFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Project Operatine Guidelines'
A. Project Objectives
1.    The ILUMEX project will replace approximately 1.7 million incandescent bulbs with
high efficiency fluorescent lamps (FLs) in the homes of CFE's residential consumers in the
cities of Monterrey and Guadalajara. For the purpose of the Project, "FLs" includes compact
fluorescent light bulbs and circular fluorescent bulbs. The Project will help CFE postpone the
installation of additional generating capacity and save fuel that would otherwise be necessary to
produce the energy that will be saved by the FLs. To the participants, the Project will produce
savings in their electricity bills, as well as savings in incandescent bulbs that they would
otherwise have to purchase. The Project will also have important benefits for the environment,
as it will reduce the contamination that would otherwise be produced in order to generate the
energy that the FLs will save.
B. Project Financing
2.    The Project will be financed with an equivalent of US$10 million to be contributed by
CFE, a grant of SDR 7.3 million from the GET, and a grant of NKr 20.25 million from the
Kingdom of Norway. In addition, the participants of the Project will also contribute through
the purchase of FLs.
C. Objective of the Operating Guidelines
3.    The objective of these Operating Guidelines (OG), is to provide guidance to the staff that
will be responsible for Project implementation. It is expected that these OG will contribute
significantly to meeting the Project goals and targets. Nevertheless, it is also understood that
unanticipated circumstances might appear during Project implementation; therefore, the OG
must be understood a dynamnic document that will evolve through feedback received from the
implementing Units (lUs). However, any major changes would have to be satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.    Initially, the ILUMEX project will cover only the cities of Monterrey and Guadalajara,
but at a later stage may be extended to the entire states of Nuevo Leon and Jalisco if the
demand for FLs in the two cities does not develop as predicted. To implement the Project,
Implementing Units will be created in Monterrey and Guadalajara. These IUs will be financed
with funds deposited in two trust accounts ("Fideicomisos") that will be opened in BANOBRAS.
The operation of these trust accounts will follow the rules that legally apply to the "Fideicom-
1.    This Annex is an abstract of the document "Operating Guidelines' ('Guias de Operacion del Proyccto")
agreed with CFE during negotiations of the grant.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 12
isos"; in particular, the funds will only be used for the imnplementation of the ILUMEX project
and will be subject to strict auditing procedures.
D. Organization for the Implementation of ILUMEX
5.    As may be seen in the chart on page 4 and 5 of Annex 1, Pruject organization involves
staff in CFE's Headquarters as well as in the cities of Guadalajara and Monterrey. To set
policy and supervise compliance with Project objectives, a Project Coordination Unit, PCU, has
been set up in CFE's Headquarters in Mexico City. The Head of the Project Coordination
Unit, or Project Coordinator, is the Subgerente de Evaluacion (Deputy Manager for Project
Evaluation) of the Subdirecci6n de Distribuci6n (Vice Directorate for Distribution). Other
members of the Unit include other key staff of that Subdirecci6n, a representative of PAESE, a
representative of the engineering staff of CFE (responsible for the preparation of the technical
specifications of the FLs) and a consultant specialized in economic analysis of projects.
6     The main functions of the PCU are the following: (a) to support the Distribution
Divisions in Jalisco and Golfo Norte (which serve Guadalajara and Monterrey, respectively) as
well as the Managers of the corresponding lUs; (b) supervise Project implementation; (c)
propose the strategy and studies (marketing, technical and economic) to monitor and evaluate
Project results; (d) based on the reports submitted by the Managers of the IUs, prepare the
progress reports needed during Project implementation; (e) procure the goods and services that
will be required by the ILUMEX project; (f) review and update the Operating Guidelines for the
Project (major amendments have to be satisfactory to the World Bank); (g) inform the
authorities of CFE (through the Central Advisory Committee mentioned in the next paragraph)
of the advances in Project implementation; and (h) recommend shifting of funds among the two
FILUMJEX if the Project in any of the two cities is seriously lagging.
7.    CFE will supervise the Project through a high level Cental Advisory Committee whose
members will be the Deputy Director for Distribution, the Director General of FIDE, the
Distribution Manager of CFE and the Commercial Manager of CFE. The President of the
Committee will be the Deputy Director for Distribution. The functions of the Committee will
include the following: (a) appoint the members of the PCU; (b) approve the strategy for Project
implementation developed by the PCU; (c) approve the details of the operating rules of two
trust accounts to be opened in BANOBRAS to finance the two IUs; (d) appoint the presidents of
the Technical Committees of each of the two Implementing Units, and (e) meet periodically to
review the progress reports prepared by the PCU and recommend those measures that it deems
necessary to reach the goals of the Project.
8.    CFE will also provide technical support to the Project. The specifications for the
procurement of the FLs have been prepared by CFE's Engineering Department in consultation
with CFE's Procurement Office. CFE will also be responsible for the bidding process and the
procurement of the FLs, which will then be handed over to the two ITUs in Guadalajara and
Monterrey. Finally, for Ceferred tenrs sales, CFE's Service Centers at Guadalajara and
Monterrey will also be responsible for including in the customer's electricity bill the amount
financed to purchase the FLs.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 12
9.   In order to implement the Project, two decentralized IUs will be established, one in
Guadalajara and one in Monterrey. To ensure the administrative and financial independence
needed for the expeditious implementation of the ILUMEX project, these units will be financed
through two trust accounts ("Fideicomisos") opened in BANOBRAS. All funds required for the
operation of the iUs, as well as the payments made by the par";cipants who purchase the FLs on
credit, will be deposited in these trust accounts. The funds .hall only be used for the purposes
of the ILUMEX project, in the two Distribution Divisions that serve Guadalajara and Monterrey
(Jalisco and Golfo Norte, respectively); the initial efforts will be concentrated in the two cities.
10.   The administration of each IU will be the responsibility of a Technical Committee whose
members will be: (a) the General Manager of the Regional Distribution Division (Jalisco or
Golfo Norte); (b) the Deputy Distribution Manager of the same Division; (c) the Deputy
Manager of the Commercial Division of the same Region; (d) the Head of PAESE of the same
Division, and (e) a representative of BANOBRAS who would be a non-voting member of the
Committee. The President of the Committee will be the General Manager of the Regional
Distribution Division.
11.   The functions of the Technical Committee will include the following: (a) approve: (i) the
annual program and budget; (ii) the agreement to be signed between BANOBRAS and CFE
authorizing the latter to collect the amounts owed by the customers for the credit sale of the
FLs, (b) supervise Project implementation, and (c) monitor the flow of funds for the Project,
including CFE's contributions. The Committee will meet at least once a month.
12-  To benefit from the local expertise that is available, the Technical Committee might
decide to establish a local Advisory Committee, whose members would include representatives
of: (a) the State (Monterrey or Guadalajara) Energy Conservation Commission; (b) the
National Chamber of Contractors; (c) the National Chamber of Commerce; (d) the National
Chamber of Electrical Equipment Manufacturers; (e) the local University or Technical Institute,
and (f) FIDE. This Committee would meet when convened by the Technical Committee and
will act strictly as an advisory group.
13.   The day-to-day administration of each Implementing Unit fund will be the responsibility
of a Project Manager. The Project Manager will be appointed by the Technical Committee, and
he will then proceed to select the staff needed for Project implementation. The staff will
include at least the following: (a) an administrative manager; (b) a commercial manager; (c) a
warehouse manager; (d) sales supervisors (to supervise sales at CFE's service centers as well as
door-to-door sales); (e) sales agents and (f) secretaries. The administrative and commercial
managers and the remaining staff will be appointed directly by the Project Manager.
14.   The main functions of the Project Manager will include the following: (a) propose for
approval by the Technical Committee: (i) the annual program and budget for the Inplementing
Units, and (ii) the agreement to be signed between BANOBRAS and CFE authorizing the latter
to collect the amounts owed by the customers for the financing of the FLs; (b) monitor Project
implementation progress and propose, and when necessary take appropriate measures to ensure



ANNEX 6
Page 4 oF 12
Project success; (c) prepare all reports specified in the Operating Guidelines to keep all
interested parties informed of the progress in Project implementation; (d) prepare procedures for
the storage, distribution, sale and installation of FLs; (e) answer customer's queries and, based
on the Operating Guidelines, settle complaints related to the perfonnance of the FLs; (f)
authorize payments to contractors that provide marketing, evaluation and installation services for
the Project, and (g) appoint the administrative and commercial managers, as well as the rest of
the required staff.
E. Facilities and Equipment
15-  Both IUs will rent suitable office space in Guadalajara and Monterrey and will purchase
sales stands and office equipment to furnish the offices. CFIE will purchase vehicles, computers
and metering equipment for the Project. For accounting purposes, these purchases will be
charged to the account of each IU. The sales stands will be mounted in CFE's Service Centers
in both cities and work space will be provided for a sales agent also. Thus, the prospective
participants will find informaticn and service in all Service Centers, as well as in the offices of
the lUs.
16.   Additional facilities and equipment might be needed if the ILUMEX project is to be
extended to the rest of the Jalisco and Golfo Norte Regions. In this case, the PCU will
authorize the IUs to procure locally the items that might be needed.
17.   Goods and services will be procured by CFE and put at the disposal of the IUs as
needed. This will allow ILUMEX to profit from better prices that result from bulk purchases.
The funds needed for the operation of the [Us will be channeled to the Units through the trust
accounts ("Fideicomisos") opened in BANOBRAS.
18.   Procurement of goods financed by the GET or Norway, i.e. FLs, will be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement of the World Bank. These Guidelines specify
international competitive bidding (ICB) for the procurement of goods.
19.   The lUs will be responsible for keeping and maintaining their own accounting, using
CFE's standard chart of accounts. The PCU and/or BANOBRAS will appoint independent
auditors to audit yearly the IU's accounts, including participants' accounting. After a contract
is signed with a participant, the IU will provide the pertinent infonnation to the corresponding
CFE Distribution Division so that the amounts to be paid bimonthly by the participant can be
included in the electricity bill to be prepared by CFE. CFE will also collect from the
participants and deposit the corresponding amounts paid by the participants in the trust accounts
opened in BANOBRAS.
20.   CFE will provide space in their warehouses in Guadalajara and Monterrey to store the
FLs prior to their sale to the participants. The storage and control of the FLs while they are in
the warehouses will follow CFE's rules and procedures.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 12
F. Characteristics of the FLs
21. The main characteristics of the FLs specified by CFE will be the following2:
(a) Operating voltage: 120 volts plus/minus ten percent for Monterrey, and 127
volts plus/minus ten percent for Guadalajara.
(b) Efficiency: minimum 47 lumens per watt.
(c) Luminous flux (at 25 degrees Celsius): (ii) Type 1: From 750 to 900 lumens;
(iii) Type 2: From 1,000 to 1,200 lumens, and (iv) Type 3: From 1,400 to 1,700
lumens. The luminous flux must be equal or greater than 90% of the nominal
value during 1,000 hours of operation.
(d) Color temperature (degrees Kelvin): (v) Type A: 4,000 to 4,200, and (vi)
Type B: 2,600 to 2,800.
(e) Color Rendering Index: Greater than 80.
(f) Operating life: 10,000 hours.
(g) Power factor: Equal to or greater than 90%.
(h) Harmonic distortion: Not greater than: (vii) third harmonic: 30%; (viii) fifth
harmonic: 10%; (ix) seventh harmonic: 7%; (x) ninth harmonic: 5%; (xi)
eleventh through forty ninth harmonic: 3%, and (xii) total harmonic distortion:
33%.
(i) Total length: Not more than 8 inches for all Types.
22.   Each FL will be provided with a thermal overload protection device that will
automatically turn it off in case it overheats and that will automatically turn it back on when it
cools off. The specifications will accept both electronic and electromagnetic ballasts, as well as
a single piece (ballast and lamp integrated in a single unit) or two piece FLs (ballast and lamp
manufactured as two independent units that can be separated and reconnected at will). In case a
two piece FL is quoted, the bidder will guarantee that the complete unit will operate as required
in the specifications.
2. This information will be updated by the PCU when the contracts for the supply of the FLs have been
awarded.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 12
23.   The FLs will be purchased through no more than three ICBs, each of approximately 1/3
of the total Project needs. In awarding the contract, both the efficiency of the FLs (measured in
lumens per watt) and the power factor will be evaluated, and a bonus or a penalty will be
applied depending on whether the proposed FLs exceed the specifications or fail to meet them.
The experience gained with the FLs provided in the first ICB will be used to fine tune the
specifications for the procurement of the second lot. For this purpose, the feedback received
from the IUs will be critical.
G. Sales Procedures
24.   Sales will be in cash or on credit, for a maximum of six FLs per customer. However,
the PCU might raise this ceiling if it deems that this is necessary to reach the goals of the Pro-
ject. If a customer opts to buy on credit, in order to keep operating costs under control, he
must buy at least three FLs and make a down payment of five Nuevos Pesos per lamp. The
balance will be paid in twelve bimonthly payments, so that the whole cost will be paid in 24
months. The minimum number of FLs to be bought on credit might be lowered if the PCU
deems that this is necessary to meet Project goals.
25.   CFE will give the participants in the Project a rebate for each FL purchased. This
rebate will be calculated so that for a customer im category U3 (51 to 75 kWh), the savings in
the electricity bill equal the bimonthly payments that he must make for the purchase of the FL.
Furthermore, the rebate must be such that customers in categories Ul and U2 must be able to
recover the investment they have made in the FLs in a maximum of 24 months. It is estimated
that this results in an average rebate of 63 % of the total cost of a FL (the
direct cost plus all the other costs necessary to implement the ILUMEX project). The following
rebates (lamp type in lumens and rebate in Nuevos Pesos) will apply initially but might be
changed from time to time by the PCU:
Type of Lamp         FL 750       FL 1000       FL 1400        Circular
Rebate (N$)            21.90         19.30        29.80           11.00
26.   The FLs will be sold at the sales stands installed in CFE's Service Centers, as well as in
the offices of the lUs. The PCU may also require that portable sales stands be used in selected
neighborhoods and shopping centers. Furthermore, if conditions so warrant, the PCU will
require that the IUs undertake a door-to-door sales campaign. In all cases, except for the door-
to-door campaign, the participants will be responsible for the instaUllation of the FLs in their
home. The participant will be provided, at the moment of purchase, with information that will
allow to select the best place to install the FL (that is to say, the installation place that will
produce the largest savings). During the door-to-door campaigns, the FLs will be installed for
the customer by the IUs.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 12
27.   A contract will be signed with each participant in the Project. A draft contract will be
prepared by the PCU and sent to each IU prior to the start of sales. A requisite for partici-
pation in the program will be that the person be a consumer in good standing with CFE and that
presents the pertinent personal identification and information at the moment of contract signa-
ture. The bimonthly payments will be calculated on the balance using an interest rate to be
fixed quarterly by the PCU, equal to the rate for the Government CETES prevailing in the last
day of the previous quarter. The interest rate for the participant will remain fixed during the
duration of the contract. The contracts will also specify that the program will replace, free of
charge to the participant, any FL that fails within two years of contract signature. In order to
receive a replacement unit, the participant will be required to return the failed FL.
28.   Since CFE will not be able to disconnect service to a customer that pays his electricity
bill but does not make his bimonthly payment for the FL, CFE will promptly notify the IU so
that they can investgate the situation and take appropriate measures. If a participant wishes to
abandon the Project because he feels that he is not receiving the expected benefits, the IU will
investigate the situation and attempt to convince the participant to continue in the Project. If
this turns out to be impossible, the IU will retrieve the FL and return it to its stock of FLs.
29.   The bimonthly payments received for the sale of the FLs will be deposited in the
pertinent account opened in BANOBRAS. These funds might be used to start a new project
after ILUMEX is completed. The details of a possible subsequent project will be communicated
by the PCU to the lUs.
H. Advertisement
30.   The PCU will retain the services of a specialized firn to prepare an advertisement
campaign prior to the start of sales. Although the ILUMEX project will be restricted to
residential consumers, the advertisement campaign will also be directed to commercial and other
consumers, who will be directed to purchase their FLs in normal retail outlets. The IUs must
be prepared to provide additional information to these consumers and to direct them to several
retail outlets. The PCU will also hire a firm to manage the advertisement campaign, and
provision will be made to fine tune the campaign on the basis of the feedback received from the
IUs.
I. Project Goals and Supervision
31.   The monthly goals for sales for the first semester of Project implementation (second
semester of 1994) per category of consumer and type of FL are listed in the table below. The
semi-annual overall goals are also shown.



ANNEX 6
Page X or 12
Jalisco (Guadalaiara):
Category                  FL 750      FL 1000     FL 1400     Circular
Ul (0-25 kWh)             6,400       2,500        1,900       3,700
U2 (26-50 kWh)            4,500        1,900       1,300       2,500
U3 (51-75 kWh)            5,800       2,400        1,700       3,300
U4 (76-100 kWh)           7,100       3,000       2,100        4,100
U5 (101-200 kWh)          13,900      5,800       4,100        8,000
U6 CE 201 kWh)            2,200         900         600        1,300
Total                     39,900      16,500      11,700      22,900
Nuevo Leon (Monterrev):
Category                 FL 750       FL 1000     FL 1400     Circular
Ul (0-25 kWh)             4,100       2,700        1,300       2,700
U2 (26-50 kWh)            2,900       1,900         900        1,900
U3 (51-75 kWh)            4,600       3,100        1,500       3,100
U4 (76-100 kWh)           5,900       3,900        1,900       3,900
U5 (101-200 kWh)          12,900      8,500       4,100        8,600
U6 (Ž 201 kWh)            2,000        1,400        700        1,400
Total                    32,400       21,500      10,400      21,600
Overall Project Goals
Semester Ending        Monthly Sales    Accumulated Sales
December 94                  29,500             177,000
June 95                      73,500             618,000
December 95                  73,700            1,060,000
June 96                      73,5UU            1,501,000
December 96                  33,000            1,700,000
32.  By the time of the Mid-term Project Implementation Review (June of 1995), a total of
618,000 FLs should have been sold in the two cities; if the sales are below 70% of this goal,
the World Bank may decide to cancel the balance of the twvo grants.



ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 12
33.   The IUs will monitor sales monthly and shall inform the PCU of their monthly sales
level. Remedial measures, if needed, will be taken quarterly. If in either city, overall (i.e., for
all customer classes and for all types of lamps) bimonthly sales fall 20% or more with respect
to Project targets, one or a combination of the following mneasures will be taken:
(a) Improve advertisement campaign;
(b) Expand sales force or improve its training;
(c) Resort to sales using portable stands in selected neighborhoods and shopping
centers;
(d) Resort to door-to-door sales;
(e) Resort to door-to-door sales and increase rebate.
If after taking a particular measure, it is found in a subsequent review that the situation did not
improve, then complementary measures from this set shall be implemented.
J. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
34.   The Project Coordination Unit, PCU, at CFE's Headquarters will supervise these
activities 3nd propose the adjustments as needed. Given the specialized nature of these
activities, the Project managers and the PCU will be assisted by qualified consultants in the
areas of marketing, canvassing and interviewing, as well as in Project evaluation.
35.   Project evaluation will gauge the achievement of the stated goals of the Project,
including energy savings and the so-called "free driver" effect, which measures the sales by
commercial retailers induced by the Project. It is envisioned as a continuous process, which
will also provide information to make adjustments in Project implementation, particularly with
regards to marketing strategies, to ensure Project success.
36.   Project monitoring and control will therefore start with a sales survey three months
before the sale of FLs begins. This survey will detenrine local prices and monthly sales of
incandescent bulbs and FLs, including their type and characteristics. It will also determine the
number of units available in warehouses and in the stores of bulk and retail suppliers, as well as
the number of suppliers and their sales volume. A similar survey will be carried out at the end
of the Project and this will provide the information required to estimate the "free driver" effect.
The PCU will request manufacturers and importers of FLs and incandescent light bulbs to
provide information concerning the sales of these products in the Mexican market, as well as in
the regions of interest.
37.   Both the lUs and the PCU will monitor Project implementation and will continuously,
and in close coordination, take appropriate measures to ensure compliance with Project goals.



ANNEX 6
Pagc 10 of 12
The remedial measures will result from the supervision of Project implementation, but will also
draw on the information provided by periodic reviews of Project implementation.
38.   As part of the Project monitoring and control, the following activities will take place
three months after Project start, and again a year after that:
(a) an evaluation will be carried out of the FL sales made in CFE's service centers in
Guadalajara and Monterrey. Its purpose will be to dctermine shortcomings in the sales process,
the need for additional training for the sales force, storage and inventory controls for the FLs,
information systems and coordination with PAESE and FIDE, if needed. A similar evaluation
would be undertaken three months after the start of the door-to-door sales process. In both
cases, the evaluation will be based in interviews and conversations with the Project staff in both
cities.
(b) a scr:ey will be made among Project participants. The survey will be used to obtain
the following information: (xiii) number and types of FLs installed, where they were installed,
the characteristics of the incandescent bulbs that they replaced and number of hours of use of
the FLs; (xiv) lighting level and quality, start-up time of the FL, prices, financing terms and
how useful the participant found the information provided by the sales personnel; (xv) reasons
for selecting the type of FL chosen; (xvi) customer's perception of the savings realized, reasons
for purchasing FLs, familiarity with FLs before Project start and knowledge gained since,
purchases of FLs made prior to Project start, independent of the Project and probable future
purchases; quality of the customer service provided by the Project, and (xvii) socio-economic
characteristics of the participants (type and area of the home, number of family members,
income, age, etc).
(c) a survey will also be carried out among non-participants in the Project. The aim of
this survey will be to determine the reasons why they have not participated, together with the
socio-economic information of the non-participants.
39.   Six months after Project start, and a year later, a survey will be carried out to determine
the number of hours per day that participants use the FLs. To this end, metering equipment
will be installed in a selected sample of participants to record the hours during which the FLs
are used every day. This will allow the Project to determine the savings accruing to those
participants, as well as the peak coincidence factors. On the basis of this information, as well
as studies carried out to determine the consumption in kWh before and after the installation of
the FLs of a random sample of participants, it will be possible to calculate the benefits to the
participants, CFE, Mexico and the environment.
40.   On ihe basis of t%. ohnvp mentioned surveys, a comprehensive mid-term Project
implementation review will be carried out with the participation of the World Bank
approximately one year after Project start. The results of the surveys and the remedial
measures that might have already been inplemented will be discussed. In particular, if the
target sale levels have not been reached, the Bank and CFE will discuss and agree on whether



ANNEX 6
Page II of 12
the ILUMEX project should continue. If the targets have not been reached, but it is decided
that the Project should continue, then remedial measures to improve sales will be adopted.
These measures might include, among others, expanding and/or training the sales force,
improving the advertising campaign, resorting to setting up temporary and portable sales stands
in selected neighborhoods and, as a last resort, proceed with a door-to-door sales effort A
flow chart has been prepared to illustrate the closed-loop system that will be put in place and is
shown in page 12.
41.   Upon Project completion, an end-of-Project review will be undertaken by the PCU with
the participation of the World Bank. During this review, Project results will be critically
evaluated and the lessons learned in ILUMEX will be incorporated in any new project under-
taken by CFE. Furthermore, during the meeting agreement will be reached on the format,
content, participants and date of a seminar to disseminate to a Mexican and international
audience the results of the ILUMEX project.
42.   Six months after Project completion, a final evaluation report will be prepared by the
PCU and submitted to the financing agencies participating in the Project. Finally, one year
after Project completion, another survey will be carried out among the participants in ILUMEX
to determine how satisfied they are with the FLs, how many FLs failed and had to be replaced,
whether they remain where they were originally installed, whether more FLs were purchased
through commercial retailers and other similar data. Results of this survey will be made
available to CFE and the World Bank.
43.   To carry out the evaluation of the results of the Project, CFE will retain specialized
consultants who will certify the evaluation of the results performed by the IlJs and the PCU.
K. Project Reporting
44.   The lUs will prepare daily, monthly, quarterly and annual sales reports. They will also
prepare quarterly progress implementation reports using a format specified by the PCU. The
PCU will prepare the half-yearly implementation reports required by the World Bank. The mUs
will also prepare annual reports of their activities, as well as a Project completion report. On
the basis of this information, the PCU will prepare the Project completion report requested by
the World Bank.
L. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
45.   The table shown in Annex 5, page 4, includes the goals and dates agreed with the World
Bank to monitor and evaluate the Project.



ANNEX- 6
Page 12 of 12
HIGH ECENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
FLOW CHART OF THE SALES PROCESS
| WE   AtERllSNG |                ;VEllN l
| IMPPOVE STAFF  |     . CFE S sEt/=             T
C     llWNMNG    |            1-      CgEFOEE
aVI mL,W
lMalo    ____
CO<~~~~LMMAESOE
INI 
R~~~~~a w



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.    Consultants will be retained to assist in: (a) Marketing Surveys; (b)
Promotion and Advertising; (c) Monitoring and Evaluation, and (d) Laboratory
Testing. This Annex provides a summary of the Terms of Reference to be used
for hiring the different consultants. The timetable of consultants activities is the
following:
Consultants Activities
Consultant for:           Latest date
to Hire           Begin           Finish
Marketing Survey           June 94           July 94         April 98
Promotion and              June 94           July 94         May 95
Advertising
Monitoring and             June 94           July 94         July 98
Evaluation
Laboratory Testing         June 94           July 94         June 96
A.   Marketing Surveys.
2.   In this area, consultants will be hired to assist the PCU and the IUs in
prepanng and then undertaking the diferent market surveys required by the
project. The market surveys required by the project are described in detail in
Annex 5 and they include at least the following: (a) a "base line survey" to be
carried out three months prior to project start and which will focus on sales of FLs
and incandescent bulbs prior to project start in the Jalisco and Golfo Norte Regions
in general, with emphasis on Guadalajara and Monterrey; (b) three months after
project start and a year later, a survey will be carried out among project
participants to determine how many FLs they purchased, where they were
installed, daily usage, etc; (c) three months after project start and a year later, a
survey will also be done among non-participants in the project to determine the
reasons why they have chosen not to participate; (d) six months after project start
and a year later, another survey will be undertaken to measure (by installing
appropriate measuring equipment) the number of hours and the time of the day that
the FLs are used, and (e) a year after project completion a final survey will be
carried out to determine how satisfied the participants are with the Fls, their



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
pattern of usage and also to gauge the impact of the project in overall sales in FLs
in both Regions.
3.    The purpose of the surveys is threefold: (a) to measure the "free driver
effect" (the induced sales of FLs produced by the project); (b) to identify measures
to be taken during project implementation to ensure compliance with project goals,
and (c) to calculate project benefits essentially in terms of energy and capacity
savings and emission reductions. Each survey might contribute to more than just
one of these purposes; however, it might be said that surveys (a) and (e) will be
the basis for calculating the "free driver effect", while surveys (b), (c) and (d) will
aid in determining how well project goals are being attained, and surveys (d) and
(e) will serve as the basis for measuring project benefits.
4.    For each survey, the Consultant shall work closely with the PCU and the
LUs, training their staff as required. It is expected that the Consultant will act in
an advisory position such that at the end of the project both the PCU and the IUs
will have developed their own capacity to undertake by themselves this type of
work in the future. The consultants' responsibilities will include at least the
following: (a) establish the basis for selecting a representative sample for the
survey; discuss it and agree it with the PCU; (b) proceed to identify the
representative sample with the assistance of the PCU and the MUs; (c) design the
methodology and the questionnaire to survey the sample; discuss it and agree it
with the PCU; (d) train, or identify suitable training facilities, for the staff of the
LUs who will be in charge of conducting the interviews; (e) train the staff of the
PCU and the IUs to correctly interpret the results of the surveys, and (f) review
and certify the accuracy of the results included in the reports prepared by the lUs
and the PCU for each survey.
B.    Promotion and Advertisement.
5.    Two distinct tasks are involved here. The first one will consist of assisting
CFE in designing a promotion and advertisement campaign to promote the use of
FLs, while the second one will consist of implementing the campaign. It is
expected that two different companies will participate in the two different tasks,
and the terms of reference for both services are described in the following
paragraphs.
6.    The scope of service of the consultants who will design the promotion and
advertisement campaign will include at least the following: (a) analyze the different
types of participants that ILUMEX wishes to attract, keeping in mind that the
campaign must cover not only the residential users, but also the commercial and
other users although the non-residential consumers interested in purchasing FLs
will be directed to the normal retail outlets; (b) on the basis of the analysis,
propose the best mix of media to reach them effectively, while keeping the cost of
the program within the budgeted amount. The media to be used will include
written information to be delivered together with the electricity bills, demonstration



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
stands at CFEs Service Centers and at other selected places, newspapers, radio
and TV; (c) propose also the best schedule for the campaign, which will have to be
distributed over the 30 months that the project will last, brt which will probably
have different emphasis during different stages of the project (more concentrated at
the beginning and less so afterwards); (d) propose also the best days of the week,
the best time of the day, and the best programs to be used as channels for the
advertisement campaign; (e) design the messages to be used to instruct and
convince the public of the benefits of the FLs and consequently of their
participation in the program; (f) prepare a budget estimate for the program,
including its monthly disbursements; (g) draft invitations to submit proposals, in
order to select the firm to implement the campaign and prepare a list of no less
than three and no more than six companies, preferably no more than two from any
given country, who are qualified to successfully implement the campaign; (h)
prepare tenns of reference and a detailed evaluation methodology to select the
company to implement the campaign; (i) assist the PCU in evaluating the proposals
received, and G) participate in periodic reviews, as requested by the PCU, to
evaluate the success of the advertisement campaign and, if necessary, propose
modifications to improve its efficiency.
7.    The scope of service of the consultants who will implement the advertise-
ment campaign will be defined by the PCU on the basis of the work of the
consultants who will design the advertisement campaign. In general, their work
will consist of implementing the campaign, submitting the reports that their
contract will specify, keeping the cost of the campaign within the contractual
budget and suggest the modifications that they might deem necessary to render the
campaign more effective.
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation.
8.    Monitoring and evaluation will serve three purposes: (a) to measure the
"free driver effect" (the induced sales of FLs produced by the project); (b) to
identify measures to be taken during project implementation to ensure compliance
with project goals, and (c) to calculate project benefits essentially in terms of
energy and capacity savings and emission reductions. The consultants retained for
this activities will assist the PCU and the IUs and will in fact certify the accuracy
of the results and conclusions produced by the PCU and the IUs. It is expected
that at the end of the project the PCU and the IUs staff shall be thoroughly trained
in these activities.
9.    The consultants' scope of service shall include at least the following: (a)
prepare a manual for evaluating the results of the surveys mentioned in paragraph
2 above; (b) train, or propose suitable training, for the staff that will participate in
project monitoring and evaluation; (c) propose a methodology for evaluating the
"free driver effect', the energy savings and the environmental benefits associated
with the project; (d) assist the PCU and the lUs in designing the reporting system,
as well as the format of the reports, required for proper project monitoring and



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
evaluation; (e) review the review the supervision and evaluation reports prepared
by the PCU and the lUs and certify their soundness and accuracy, and (f) assist the
PCU and the IUs in preparing the end of project report, as well as the report to be
prepared one year after the project is completed. These reports shall be submitted
to the donors that participated in the project, as well as to the international
community in seminars to be held for that purpose. The reports shall concentrate
on the benefits of the project (both in energy savings and emission reductions), the
"free driver effect" and on the lessons learned that might be valuable in
implementing similar projects in other parts of the world.
D.   Laboratory Testin.
10.   The consultants in charge of the Lab Tests shall be responsible for testing
the FLs that are first submitted as samples by all the bidders, and subsequently a
random selection of PLs from the first delivery made by the selected contractor.
The tests will be carried out in Mexico City's Lighting Lab; the PCU will make
the appropriate arrangements so that the consultants can use the lab at no cost to
them. After completing the tests, the consultants shall submit the required reports
to the PCU.
11.   In the first test the consultants will certify the characteristics of the samples
supplied by the bidders. Each bidder will supply three samples for each type of
FL proposed and they shall be tested for: (a) operating voltage; (b) efficiency
(lumens per watt); (c) luminous flux; (d) color temperature and color rendering
index; (e) power factor and (f) harmonic distortion.
12.   In the second test the consultants will certify the performance of a random
sample of 20 Fl-s taken from the first batch delivered by the contractor. These
lamps will be subjected to the same tests mentioned in the preceding paragraph, but
ihey will also be tested to confirm that they will maintain the luminous flux as
required by the specifications. Additionally, the lamps will be subjected to a
standard test to determine the useful life of the FLs. At the end of each test, the
consultants shall submit a report to the PCU with their conclusions and
recommendations.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Lessons Learned in the Implementation of Bank Financed
Power Projects and CFE's Pilot Lighfing Projects
Lessons Learned in the hIplementation of Bank Financed Power Projects.
1.    The Bank participated actively in the financing of the Mexican power sector
from 1949 to 1972. A total of US$715 million was lent during that period. A long
absence from the sector followed, as no agreements could be reached with the
Government on important issues such as pricing, financing, sector organization,
management and procurement. Beginning in 1986, new macroeconomic policies
helped to reopen the dialogue with the sector; fiurthermore, important actions were
taken to address the concerms of the Bank, making possible the processing of new
operations.
2.    OED's audit reports and LAC's PCRs have concluded that in general the
Bank has made extraordinary financial contributions to the physical development of
the sector. However, some issues and problems have affected its performance, and
these include the need to: (a) improve sector organization and management, as well
as management information systems; (b) base electricity pricing on economic and
financial grounds, rather than on political expediency; (c) avoid unrealistic
optimism on demand growth, project costs and project construction schedules, and
(d) improve procurement methods.
3.    Power sector organization, management, as well as management information
systems have improved as a result of studies carried out by specialized consultants
funded by Bank loans. In particular, CFE has decentralized its operations, with the
corresponding gains in accountability, efficiency and prompt attention to customers.
More importantly, the revision of the General Law of Electricity Services that took
place in December of 1992, created an Energy Regulatory Commission, which will
begin to operate in January of 1994, and authorized the operation of cogenerators,
independent power producers, as well as the import/export of power from/to
neighboring countries.
4.    Tariffs have been raised in real terms so that the average revenue is
approximately 83% of long run marginal cost (LRMC). There is however a
significant distortion in the residential consumer category, where those that consume
less than 200 kWh per month pay only approximately 63 % of LRMC, whereas
those that consume in excess of 200 kWh pay between 147% and 183% of LRMC.
CFE is committed to correct this distortion and it is expected that the newly created
Regulatory Commission will support CFE's efforts to more adequately reflect the
economic cost of providing service to residential consumers.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
5.    Although electricity losses are relatively low by developing country
standards (14%), they can and should be brought down in line with those registered
in industrialized countries. A new Bank operation is being discussed with the
Mexican authorities to help reduce losses, and it is anticipated that it will be
appraised in FY95.
6.   Improvement in procurement practices can best be effected by reaching
agreement during project preparation on the tender documents to be used for the
project; this will also expedite project implementation. The tender documents for
the procurement of the FLs ha% been extensively discussed and agreement has
been reached with CFE. No difficulties are therefore expected in this mratter.
7.    A new lesson recently learned stems from the financial constraints imposed
on the sector for macroeconomic reasons by the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit during the past three years. These constraints have forced CFE to reduce its
investment program. It is therefore crucial to determine whether any new project
will fit under the investment limit set by the Ministry, as otherwise the project will
suffer delays in its implementation. Given the nature and magnitude of the
proposed project, the Ministry has authorized CFE to include it in its investment
program. Therefore, no delays should be experienced in project implementation.
Lessons Leaned from CFE's PNot Lighting Projects.
8.    CFE has implemented seven small pilot lighting projects. In three of them
(HermosiUo I, Puebla and Quer6taro) CFE donated the lamps to the participants.
In another three (Chetumal, Valladolid and Hermosillo I) it sold the FIs at a
d- -count, and in one (sales to CFE's employees in Mexico City) it sold the lamps at
fi  price but financed them over five months.
9.   In all projects, the number of FL-s and participants involved was very small
as; ty be seen from the following table:
Project                         Number FLs       Participants
Hermosillo I                          400              139
Puebla                                400              136
Queretaro                             500              100
Valladolid                           9,054            3,638
Cheamal                             20,729            5,436
Hermosillo II                       50,000            16,670
CFE employees/Mexico City            9,337            1,670



ANNE-X 8
Page 3 of 3
10.   CFE's experience demonstrates that: (a) of all the FLs offered (typically
four or five types were made available) two thirds of the participants preferred the
22 watt circular lamp (which in strict sense is not a FL but rather an efficient
fluorescent lamp); (b) energy (and electricity bill) savings ranged from a low of 3%
to a high of 12% for the very small projects in which CFE donated the lamps. In
Valladolid, savings reached 27%; however, in this cormmunity lighting accounts for
nearly all residential consumption. Consequently, savings as a percent of normal
electricity consumption were extraordinarily high; (c) in those projects were FLs
were sold at a discount, door-to-door sales proved to be a far more effective
marketing strategy. In Valladolid, during four months lamps were sold at selected
stores at a discount but sales stagnated at 1,771; 7,322 more were sold over the
next two months through a door-to-door campaign; (d) all surveys indicated that the
main reasons why customers were reluctant to participate in the program was the
high cost of the FLs. Therefore a rebate was instituted as a means to attract
participation; the rebates normally ranged from 30 to 50% of the cost of the FLs,
except for the case of CFE's employees in Mexico City who were not given a
rebate and for the very small projects in which the FLs were given away at no cost
to the participants, and (e) the evaluation process was deemed instrumental to
improve project implementation. However, financial constraints forced CFE to
restrict financing for this purpose and consequently the information available is only
partial-
11.  In spite of the shortcomings of the evaluation process, important lessons
have been learned from CFE's small pilot projects, and these have been reflected in
the design of the proposed project. The main lessons incorporated in project design
are those related to the type of lamps to be offered, the need to resort to door-to-
door marketing and to offer an attractive rebate and the requirement for a
comprehensive evaluation process which must be carried out in parallel with the
project.



ANNEX 9
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PROJECT
Project File
List of project related documents filed in the LAC Information
Center:
1.    Feasibility Study of the ILUMEX project. Prepared by the
International Institute for Energy Conservation in December of 1992
and financed by USAID.
2.    Executive Summary of the ILUMEX Project (Resumen del Proyecto
ILUMEX) and Technical Annex (Anexo Tecnico), prepared by CEE
in August of 1993 as a result of the pre-appraisal mission.
3.    Estimate of the Emissions from CFE's thermal power stations
prepared by the consulting firm UITESA.
4.    Review of the Technical Annex (Anexo Tecnico) prepared by CFE in
October of 1993 as a result of the Appraisal mission.
5.    Economic Analysis of the Ilumex Project prepared by CFE and Luis
Cosenza (consultant) in October of 1993.
6.    Project Implementation Plan, prepared by the Appraisal Mission.
7.    Minutes of Negotiations, including the agreed texts for the Project
Operating Guidelines and for the establishment of the Implementing
Units.



.,'_.0io-0IDO'                                                       §or                         IBRD 25270
UNITED   STATE5   OF   AMERICA                                                                                    MEXICO
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT
t  r.l:   o"srs    <>\ \   Ngoalus sv~l>  Ne 36c                                                                                            PROJECT  (ILUMEX PROJECT)
>t   t  W  M  t<'^hu'^  1 ,  L  S,:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Potc Cte
scr \otms3ie            C ,ds 0ses'                                   CC AN  L H I Z      ;JqsA  } 0   (             C6wsCMmiII t                                NationalCapitlh
< Cie;rnUiA  /      #CC$                                                    / u,P tAAIUl 05
led   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~O                   Stat Capitls
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~op ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Principal ClNes or Tows
-Railroads
-,  Principal Airports
* -  -  Stare Boundaries
't ¢Pa                  -    r       Duoa         /    ZAC,h 'CAn  t)|   / a I      
f.tl   Msz:lir;  i:L   /      \  ,/i5A^¢ SUIS  OrG\51    f   t <    )    Prolntealloal s"Al
n  _  r  c  r  _ w o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~- V " L~~~~~0'                                                                              <' <5<
Act S      
MIlLES 0         0a         200         300                                                                                      _                                               _ GAEAA               d /
TI,. ow. ti.. ho.mo re~.dhy 10. woolS 'coWs .0* ..M1ANUSlor
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTE Ion                                                   np 



