Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18735
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Mexico
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT TRUST FUND
(GEF Grant No. GE -7492)
December 23, 1998
Mexico Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sectors Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Mexican Peso
New Mexican Peso 10 = IUS$
Norwegian Krone 7.55= 1 US$
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Metric ton (mt or ton) =  1,000 kg
I MW (Mega-watt)     =      1,000 kW
I MWh (Mega-watt-hour)=    1,000 kWh
I GWh (Giga-watt-hour) =    1,000 MWh
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS                    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (National Bank of Pull ic
Works and Services)
CFE                         Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission)
FCCC                        Convencion Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre Cambio Climatico
(United Nations Framework on Climate Change)
FIDE                       Fideicomiso de Apoyo al Programa de Ahorro de Energia del Sector
Electrico (Trust Fund for Energy Conservation)
GEF                         Fondo Mundial para el Medio Ambiente (Global Environment Facility)
GET                         Fideicomiso Mundial para el Medio Ambiente (Global Environment 'f rusN
Fund)
GoM                        Gobierno de Mexico (Government of Mexico)
ILUMEX                      lluminacion de Mexico (Mexico Ligthing Project)
IU                          Unidad de Implementacion (Implementing Unit)
PCU                         Unidad Cordinadora del Proyecto (Project Coordinating Unit)
STAP                        Panel de Asesores de Ciencia y Tecnologia (Scientific and Technical
Advisory Panel)
CETES                      Certificados de Tesoreria (Government of Mexico Treasury Bills)
C02                         Dioxido de Carbono (Carbon Dioxide)
DSM                         Manejo de la Demanda (Demand Side Management)
FLs                         Lamparas Fluorescentes (Flourescent Light Bulbs -Compact and
Circular)
IRR                         Tasa Intema de Retorno (Internal Rate of Retum)
LRMC                        Costo Marginal a Largo Plazo (Long-Run Marginal Costs)
S02                         Dioxido de Sulfuro (Sulphur Dioxide)
NOx                         Oxido de Nitrogeno (Nitrogen Oxide)
Vice President: Shaid Javed Burki
Director Country Management Unit: Olivier Lafourcade
Director Sector Management Unit: Daniel Leipziger
Task Manager: Enrique Vanegas



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT TRUST FUND
(GEF Grant No. GE-7492)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .............ii............j
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ...................................................                                            iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction.l
B.   Project Objectives and Description. 
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives.2
D.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the project.                                                  4
E.   Project Sustainability.6
F . Bank Performnance.6
G. Borroner (Grantee)Performance .7
H .   Assessment of Outcome.8
1.    Future Operations.10
J.    Key Lessons Learned.10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE    1:    SUMM ARY   OF  ASSESSMENT ...........................................................................  15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ............................................................................ 14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ............................................................................            15
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ........................ .                     16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................................................   17
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ...........................................................................  18
Table    7:    Studies  Included   in  the  Project ...........................................................................  19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ............................................................................               20
TABLE  8B: PROJECT   FINANCING  ...........................................................................        21
TABLE 9A: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...........................................................................           25
TABLE 9B: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (IRR CALCULAT'IONS) ...................................................................... 26
TABLE I OA: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ........................................................................... 24
TABLE IOB: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .............................................................                 26
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS                       .......................................... 27
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .............................................................               28
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .............................................................                   29
APPENDIXES:
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE ............................................................
APPENDIX B: GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT..................................................
APPENDIX  C: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................................................
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipitents only in the|
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT TRUST FUND
GRANT NO: GE-7492
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the High Efficiency Lighting Pilot
Project (Mexico), for which Grant GE-7492 in the amount of SDR 7.3 million (approximately
US$10.00 million equivalent) was approved on March 14, 1994 and made effective on February
10,1995. The project was closed on December 31, 1997. SDR 7.3 million was disbursed. The final
disbursement took place in March 1997.
The project was co-financed by a Nkr 20.25 million (approximately US$3 million
equivalent) grant from the Kingdom of Norway.
This ICR was prepared by Messrs. Enrique Vanegas, Task Manager (LCSFP), and Gary
Costello, consultant (LCSES). The ICR was reviewed by Richard Clifford, Infrastructure Sector
Leader (LCCIC); Christine Kimes, GEF Coordinator (LCSES); Chaudra Sinha (ENV); and Maria
Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance Officer (LCSFP).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
August 16-26 1998. It should be noted that further revisions of operational and economic data was
continued after the mission with the result that minor discrepancies exist between the Aide
Memoire, which was signed on August 26, 1998 and the date of this ICR. The implementing
agency contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing a final implementation report which can
be found in Appendix B. The implementing agency also provided comments on the draft ICR.



iii
United Mexican States
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
High Efficiency Lighting Pilot
Grant Trust Fund No: GE-7492
Mexico
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The High Efficiency Lighting Pilot Project was the first of its kind to be funded by the GEF
Trust Fund. Support to the Government of Mexico (GOM) was based on the desire to find ways to
reduce the growth in demand for electric energy and the associated increases in gaseous emissions
of thernoelectric power plants. Conversion of lighting from incandescent bulbs to high efficiency
florescent bulbs (FLs), would complement Bank loans to implement programs to improve both
supply-side and demand -side energy management. The Project would also complement ongoing
energy conservation programs of the Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (CFE) such as the
installation of sodium vapor light bulbs in the public lighting system and sale of FLs in the Mexico
City, Chetumal, Hermosillo, Queretaro, Puebla and Valladolid. The Government of Norway co-
financed the Project. Project start up was delayed by one year due to problems associated with the
execution of the Trust Deeds (Fideicomisos) and the contractual arrangements among the guarantor
(SHCP), the recipient (BANOBRAS) and CFE . The project closing date was extended by one year
in order to provide the GOM the opportunity to fully implement the project.
2.    While the operation was expected to have an attractive rate of return, GEF participation
was deemed necessary in order to increase the pace of technology adoption among consumers. The
initial high cost of purchase (about ten times higher than incandescent bulbs) was a major barrier to
purchase. An intensive marketing and education campaign was seen as essential to expanding FLs
use. It was also expected that GEF support would help to establish a model for assessing the
technicai and economic viability of a new technology that could be applied throughout the
developing world. The project was considered a STAP-designated priority area and the GEF's
main demonstration project for energy efficient lighting technologies.
Project Objectives
3.    The project objectives were to: (a) demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of
reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and simultaneously reduce local environmental
contamination through the widespread installation of high efficiency lighting; (b) build
institutional capacity for technological change and energy conservation; (c) provide a replicable
model for demand-side-management (DSM) in Mexico and elsewhere in the developing world;
and (d) strengthen the CFE capacity to practice DSM on a sustainable basis.



iv
4.    The project had a goal of replacing approximately 1.7 million incandescent bulbs with the
higher efficiency FLs in Mexico's second and third largest cities, Guadalajara and Monterrey. CFE
was responsible for the sale and distribution of the bulbs to customers. The Project was expected to
generate global benefits associated with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as other
contaminants such as S02 and NOx.
5.    The objectives were realistic and appropriate for the circumstance and the nature of the
grant. They were also consistent with the governments overall energy development and
management strategy, the Bank's development strategy for the country and the GEF's program
priorities.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project was implemented by the CFE. The design of the project placed heavy emphasis
on the establishment of two implementing units (one for each city) financed through trust accounts
(Fideicomisos) and BANOBRAS acting as the trustee. It was expected that this system would help
keep costs low and allow CFE to introduce timely adjustments to ensure project success.
7.    From the point of view of project monitoring and evaluation, the results were limited. CFE
did not undertake an assessment of FLs usage and the demand coincidence factor until the last year
of project implementation and the final results were not know until after project closing date.
Consequently, the Midterm Review which took place at the end of June 1996 did not serve a useful
purpose because no evaluation data was available. This was the time were project design could
have been modified and improved.
8.    The original closing date for the Project was December 31, 1996. In December 1996, The
Bank agreed to extend the project for one year to December 31,1997 because the delay in
effectiveness had caused disbursement lags. By closing date, full grant disbursement had been
reached and 1,712,361 FLs had been sold surpassing the initial goal for sales of 1.7 million. As of
July 1998, 2.5 million bulbs have been sold and installed. Also data related to energy
consumption/savings and actual carbon savings based on installations and product use indicates
that energy savings were close to estimates (911 GWh vs. 1014 GWh for the life of the FLs).
Avoided C02 emission by the project (for the life of the FLs -9,000 hours) was 764,000 tons vs.
710,000 tons estimated at appraisal
9.    Project costs and financing arrangements conformed well to SAR estimates. The total
estimated costs for the project were US$ 23.00 million of which GEF would contribute
approximately US$ 10.00 millions (SDR 7.3 million), the Kingdom of Norway approximately
US$ 3.0 million (NK 20.25 mill), and the CFE US$ 10.00 million. As of closing date, total project
cost was US$ 25.95 due mainly to SDR and NK exchange rates appreciation against the dollar.
The GEF Grant financed US$ 10.7 million or 41 % of the total disbursed, the Kingdom of Norway
provided US$ 3.15 million or 12 % share, and CFE contributed US$ 12.1 million (including
reflows) or 47 % share.



v
Project Sustainability
10.   Project sustainability is likely. The project has continued beyond the completion date with
financing from reflows and contributions from CFE. By December 31,1998, CFE expects to install
a total of 2.49 million FLs at a total cost of US$ 33.82 million. For 1999 and 2000, CFE will
support administrative offices in Guadalajara and Monterrey which will attend to customer needs
including replacing defective FLs. Over the same period, CFE will collect all outstanding
payments associated with the reflows or about US$11.6 million. Throughout the life of the project
and since project closing in December 1997, CFE has demonstrated the capacity to recover both
the operational and direct costs of the lamps. CFE expects to use these funds to support its ongoing
energy conservation initiatives including promotion of high efficiency lighting in other parts of the
country. Based on these positive results, the prospects for project sustainability (FLs to be replaced
by participants at the end of useful life) are good, but will depend on CFE's tariff policies and on
the future market cost of FLs.
Bank Performance
11.   Bank performance during preparation and appraisal was for the most part satisfactory.
However, the Bank preparation team should have considered including the specification of
monitoring and evaluation indicators to measure cost effectiveness, environmental impact, and
financial and energy usage target. Project monitoring and evaluation indicators (consultants
reports, baseline surveys and participant surveys) which were included were appropriate but
insufficient
12.   Bank supervision, however, was unsatisfactory. Most Bank supervision reporting focused
narrowly on the progress in achieving FL sales goals. Little attention was given to enforce the
carrying out of technical studies and survey data, which was later produced by CFE. At the same
time, however, the Bank could have done more in terms of providing guidance to CFE regarding
monitoring and evaluation of energy demand particularly as relates to analyzing the project's
impact energy consumption and C02 emissions, a most important rationale for Bank and GEF
support. The Bank also failed in its fiduciary role with regard to the management and
accountability of GEF and donor s' funds by not being more forceful with CFE that audit reports
complied with Bank standards and project's financial controls strengthened. There was also high
turn-over of task managers.
Borrower (Grantee) Performance
13.   CFE performance can be characterized as satisfactory. Project reporting was for the most
part timely. However, project audit reports were not acceptable and submitted late and the CFE did
not complete the final evaluation report by the agreed upon deadline of June 30,1998. CFE has
asked the auditors to correct any shortcomings in their reports so as to meet all Bank requirements.
Regarding the M &E program, CFE bears some of the blame for not implementing it in a timely
fashion as they failed to hire the specialized consultants agreed to during project appraisal.



vi
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
14.   The project merits a satisfactory rating with regard to the achievement of its fundamental
objectives. The performance of each of the project's components is also rated as satisfactory.
15.   The project outcome is rated satisfactory as most development objectives were achieved
and performance indicators attained. There were, however, some shortcomings such as a negative
IRR for CFE, lower IRR (35% actual vs. 56% at appraisal) for the project, and lower value of the
capacity postponed by the installation (33.7 MW actual vs. 100MW at appraisal). The main reason
for these results was that the demand coincidence factor between electric system peak and efficient
lighting usage was lower (.3 actual vs. .8 at appraisal)
16.   As regard a future operation, there is no need for further Bank/GEF involvement in this
sector. CFE has initiated a new high efficiency lighting project which will cover the entire country.
A total of about 6.5 million FLs would be installed in four years. The project is being financed by
CFE's own funds
17.   Key lessons learned from implementation include:
(a)   in the case of Mexico where the implementation was carried out by an electric
utility (CFE), the establishment of independent trust funds (fideicomisos) were a
key factor in achieving sales and coverage goals. These fideicomisos were set up
with BANOBRAS and have shown to be efficient, low cost and expeditious, since
CFE was able to retain control of the project and introduced timely adjustments. It
also guaranteed that the funds, including those resulting from the credit sales to the
participants, were kept separate from those that entered into CFE's own treasury
and that they were only used for the purposes of the project.
(b)   high technical specification and reliability of FLs were important considerations in
consumer acceptance.
(c)   the price subsidy of FLs was important in overall marketing/sales strategy.
(d)   a tariff policy which provides large subsidies to low income consumers acts as a
disincentive to purchase FLs even when the price of the FLs are subsidized. Having
a tariff policy which sets the electricity equal to the long run marginal cost (LRMC)
will provide an incentive to consumers to purchase FLs
(e)   the identification of appropriate project monitoring indicators and the regular
collection of data by the implementing agency are essential steps in evaluating
ongoing pilot project performance. Without rigorous monitoring, pilot projects'
success or failure will be difficult to determine.
(f)   decentralized Implementing Units (lUs) were a key factor in achieving sales and
distribution goals.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PILOT TRUST FUND
(GE - 7492)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
I.    During the early 1990's, demand for electric energy in Mexico was high and increasing at a
rate of over 5% a year. In 1992, it was estimated that Mexico would need to add 14,000 MW over
a ten year period to meet this growing demand. The High Efficiency Lighting Pilot Project was
designed as part of a larger Bank financed energy savings project (The Power Sector Project) and
was fully consistent with Mexico's energy management and development strategies and priorities
for reducing the demand for thermal generation and new energy investments. Although the Power
Sector Project was not in the end funded, other earlier Bank supported energy activities in Mexico
such as the Transmission and Distribution Project and the Hydroelectric Development Project were
viewed as complementary as they addressed both supply and demand-side management issues.
2.   In addition to addressing Mexico's energy conservation priorities, the High Efficiency
Lighting Pilot Project was designed to address the problem of gaseous emissions associated with
thermal generation. Due to the fact that about 80% of Mexico's installed generating capacity is
thermal, gaseous emission levels are high. Carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide
emissions have a deleterious effect on both the local and global environment. The introduction of
energy saving technologies could contribute to reduced energy consumption thereby improving air
quality and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
B.    Project Objectives and Description
3.    The Project objectives were to: (a) demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of
reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and simultaneously reduce local environmental
contamination through the widespread installation of high efficiency lighting; (b) build
institutional capacity for technological change and energy conservation; (c) provide a replicable
model for Demand Side Management (DSM) in Mexico and elsewhere in the developing world;
and (d) strengthen Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE)'s capacity to practice DSM on a
sustainable basis.
4.    The Project design included support for: (a) the acquisition of more energy efficient
Flourescent Light Bulbs (FLs), (77 % of project cost; including contingencies); (b) the purchase of
vehicles, metering equipment, computers, office equipment and sale stands (2 % of project cost
including contingencies); (c) consultant services for canvassing, marketing and, testing, auditing
and evaluation (4 % of project cost; including contingencies); (d) the cost of engineering,



- 2 -
monitoring, billing and accounting (8 % of project cost; including contingencies); and (e) the direct
costs of project administration, including fully dedicated staff in both cities (9 % of project cost;
including contingencies).
5.    The Project included these design elements: (a) project benefits would be shared with
participants through a rebate of approximately 63% of the total cost (including overhead costs); (b)
participants would pay for FLs either in cash or under a deferred payment plan of 24 months, as
part of their electric bill with an interest rate equivalent to the government treasury bills (CETES);
(c) technical standards and specifications to allow FLs to operate properly and reach their projected
lifetime; and (d) acceptable FL performance guidelines to be provided to the customer and CFE.
6.    Project participation was restricted to residential customers. The project supported a
marketing campaign which included specific targeting of low income/low consumption users. CFE
expected that the cost savings to low consumption users associated with high efficiency lighting
would help offset future tariff increases.
7.    The Project did not include activities related to energy policy or institutional reforms.
These areas were addressed in other Bank supported loans. The most significant of these policy
reforms included in the Transmission and Distribution Project was that cross-subsidies among
consumers would be reduced and that electricity tariffs would rise until they approached the long
run marginal cost (LRMC). During Project preparation it was assumed that these reforns would
move forward and therefore be complementary to the goals and objectives of the High Efficiency
Lighting Pilot Project.
8.    The Project was not considered high risk nor complex. The main risks identified at
appraisal were: (a) market penetration might be slower than expected which might result in higher
project costs associated with additional program marketing; (b) the FLs might be installed in places
where they are used less than four hours per day; (c) voltage fluctuations in the Mexico power
system might be such as to significantly reduce the lifetime of FLs; and (d) the FLs might fail to
reach their projected lifetime even if there were no excessive voltage fluctuations. The project's
design attempted to deal with these risks through the development of extensive product marketing
and promotion, strict purchasing specifications, laboratory testing and public awareness
campaigns.
C.    Achievement of Project Objectives
9.    Most project objectives were achieved. The Project was officially closed in December
1997. The original target for unit sales of FLs forecast at appraisal was 1.7 million. As of the
project closing date of December 31, 1997 a total of 1,712,361 FLs were sold. The CFE
commitment required that they continue to share savings with the project participants until all
funds from both grants had been transferred to the participants in the form of rebates for the
purchase of FLs and the balance of the reflow on funds (about US$ 9.0 million) was completely
exhausted. The additional sales were financed with funds accumulated from the payments made by
the project participants and from CFE contributions. All grant funds have been disbursed: GET
US$ 10.7 (equivalent to SDR 7.3 mill) and Kingdom of Norway, as cofinancier, with US$3.1
million (equivalent to NK 20.25 mill). The total project cost was US$ 25.95 million. All contracts



- 3 -
to purchase FLs with GEF grant funds, including reflows, have been awarded (totaling
approximately 2.49 million units) and all are expected to be sold by December 31, 1998 at a total
cost of US$33.82 million. The higher cost is due to SDR and NK/US$ fluctuations.
10.   Average cost of installed FL was estimated at US$13.53 each at appraisal. The total
number of FLs installed as of December 31,1997, the official closing date of the project, was
1,712,361. As of December 31, 1998, the date when CFE will cease sales through the two trust
funds, an estimated 2.5 million FLs will have been installed. Actual cost for the project as executed
was US$ 11.42 each (direct cost) or US $ 13.92 total cost (including overhead). All sales were
transacted through the CFE offices.
11.   Approximately 51% of the sales occurred in Guadalajara which accounted for 58% of the
contracts; 49% percent of the sales occurred in Monterrey. Brand preferences were different in the
two cities. Participants in Guadalajara preferred General Electric and participants in Monterrey,
Phillips. The FLs are of high quality and public acceptance has been very positive. A third bidding
process was initiated for the sale of an additional 920,000 FLs which would be financed with
payments made by project participants and from CFE contributions.
12.   A successful DSM project would encourage customers to modify their energy consumption
with respect to the timing and level of demand. The project only partly achieved this goal because
complementary measures to influence the timing of demand such as time of use tariffs and direct
load control were not implemented. Also the project assumed that tariffs would be raised to the
long-run marginal cost (LRMC). CFE, however, simplified tariffs blocks in early project execution
by reducing them from 7 to 3 categories. CFE was able to evaluate project impact in terms of
energy savings (kWh savings) as well as the effectiveness of program design, marketing and
delivery. The total arnount of energy saved for the life of the FLs is 978GWh compared to 1,014
GWh estimated at appraisal.
13.   From the point of view of project monitoring and evaluation, the results were limited. CFE
did not undertake an assessment of FLs usage and the demand coincidence factor until the last year
of project implementation and the final results were not known until after project closing date.
Moreover some of the findings were revised and changed during the ICR mission. Survey results
indicated that the FLs were being used less than 3 hours per day (compared to 4 hrs per day
estimated at appraisal). This usage translated into a coincidence factor of .5, (compared to .8
estimated at appraisal). The coincidence factor was evaluated by the CFE and the Bank during the
ICR mission and was lowered to .3. These results lowered the economic and capacity saving
benefits of ILUMEX. The Bank was not forceful enough in demanding that CFE timely hire the
specialized consultants to both monitor FL usage and assess its impact on energy conservation and
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The mid-tern review was to be based on these findings.
As these studies were not implemented during the first 18 months of the project, the mid-term
Review mission was not carried out as designed at the appraisal stage. Moreover, at the time the
mid-terrn mission took place at the end of June 1996, 77% of grant resources (US$8.2 million) had
been disbursed without the collection of project monitoring and evaluation data. Thus making any
findings or recommendations from that mission largely irrelevant for project implementation
purposes.



- 4 -
14.   According to the project appraisal estimates, the project would reduce the need to install
additional capacity generation by about 100 MW. The project was partially successful in reaching
that goal by postponing the development of an additional 33.7MW of capacity. The lower than
expected value is due primarily to a lower coincidence factor of use. This factor measures the ratio
of FLs in use during peak hours vs. the total number of FLs installed. ILUMEX survey data of
participants showed that FLs were used fewer hours than estimated at appraisal resulting in a
coincidence factor of use of 30% vs. 80% estimated at appraisal.
15.   The July 1996 supervision mission report stated that CFE had changed the fuel mix of
power stations located close to Monterrey from heavy fuel oil to natural gas, resulting in a change
in the level and composition of power plant emissions. In Guadalajara the fuel was changed to a
low sulfur content fuel oil which also reduced greenhouse gas emissions. This meant that the net
environmental benefits associated with the high efficiency lighting program were reduced.
Economic benefits were also reduced, as previously mentioned, by the average time of use of FLs
which was lower, 2.89 hours/day, than the 4 hours/day estimated at appraisal.
16.   Data related to energy consumption/savings and actual carbon savings based on
installations and product use indicates that energy savings were close to estimates (91 1 GWh vs.
1014 GWh for the life of the FLs). Avoided C02 emission by the project (for the life of the FLs -
9,000 hours) was 764,000 tons vs. 710,000 tons estimated at appraisal.
17.   Another reason for the lower economic benefits was the drastic reductions in fuel prices
which began in 1994. CFE's marginal cost of energy has decreased from .062 US $/kWh in 1994
to US $ .029 in 1998. From the national perspective, the project IRR was 35% (vs. 56% estimated
at appraisal). For CFE, the project IRR was negative (vs. 32% estimated at appraisal). For the
participants in the project, however, the project IRR was very high (248% vs. 151% estimated at
appraisal). This was due to the impact of energy tariff increases imposed on the biggest residential
consumers. Additional details and analysis of the economic costs and benefits of the project can be
found in Annex C.
D.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   GEF supported pilot projects are expected to be: innovative, replicable, sustainable,
incremental and include, where appropriate, participation and consultation. The performance of the
Mexico High Efficiency Lighting Project in these areas has been mostly satisfactory.
19.   Today CFE is implementing a variety of energy saving programs on a nationwide basis
including; (i) thermal insulation of homes in hot climate areas; (ii) improving efficiency of motors
for home and business use;(iii) improving efficiency of air conditioners; and (iv) the use of high
efficiency lighting. In interviews with CFE staff during the ICR mission, they indicated that their
experience with the GEF Pilot project played an important role in the design of nationwide energy
savings programs, particularly : a) the establishment of internal management units as well as
implementation units, or trust funds; b) the formulation of technical specifications and laboratory
tests; and c) the undertaking of periodic technical and financial reviews.



- 5 -
20.   Over the implementation period of the project the following changes occurred which
positively affected overall project performance:
*    the sales ceiling of 6 FLs per person was increased to 10 FLs
the Fideicomisos were amended to increase geographic coverage to city suburbs and
rural areas
*    product price increases (in pesos) to keep pace with devaluation
21.   These changes resulted in a larger number of FLs sold to a wider geographic population
even though the discount was smaller (49%) compared to appraisal (63%).
22.   Over the life of the project, the following occurred which negatively affected overall
project performance:
*    Initial poor quality of some FLs which required CFE to purchase and distribute
replacements. 1 20v 15w doubleviax were replaced with 1 20v 15w tripleviax
*    The peso devaluation also caused an increase in the price of FLs to consumers
making purchases more difficult for lower income consumers
*    CFE had difficulty in measuring C02 emissions and analyzing the environmental
impacts of the Project. Also the monitoring and evaluation activities were not
completed until after the project closing date
-    Highly subsidized energy tariffs to low income consumers overrode the effects of
steep price discounts for bulbs resulting in lower sales to this group
One year delay in effectiveness due to various legal difficulties in establishing the
Fideicomisos. It was assumed at appraisal that the condition of effectiveness could
be easily complied. This turn out not to be the case. In accordance with the Bank
legal counselor involved in the project, the fideicomisos did not provide any
rigidities, once they were set up. It could therefore be deduced that the execution of
the Trust Deeds and the contractual arrangements among the guarantor (SHCP), the
recipient (BANOBRAS) and CFE took longer than normal and this could be the
main reason for the delay. There were additional factors such as a change in task
managers and little oversight by the Bank. No explanation was found in project
files.
23.   Product use surveys undertaken by CFE indicated that FLs were used less than three hours
per day (as compared to the original estimate of four per day). As was mentioned previously,
consumer behavior caused a reduction in the project's economic benefits and a reduction in the
energy capacity saved by the project.
24.   The one year delay in declaring project effectiveness caused disbursement lags. No monies
were disbursed in FY94, as compared to appraisal estimate of US$650,000. In FY95, US$ 2.2
million was disbursed or 35 % (US$6.5 million) of appraisal, including Kingdom of Norway's
contribution. However, by the end of FY96 procurement had accelerated and 161% of grant funds
were disbursed, as compared to original timeline. In FY97, last disbursement was made, whereas
appraisal assumed the project to be closed (see Table 4 of Statistical Annex).



- 6 -
E.    Project Sustainability
25.   Project sustainability is likely. The project has continued beyond the completion date with
financing from reflows and contributions from CFE. By December 31,1998, CFE expects to install
a total of 2.49 million FLs at a total cost of US$ 33.82 million. For 1999 and 2000, CFE will
support administrative offices in Guadalajara and Monterrey which will attend to customer needs
including replacing defective FLs. Over the same period, CFE will collect all outstanding
payments associated with the reflows or about US$11.6 million. Throughout the life of the project
and since project closing in December 1997, CFE has demonstrated the capacity to recover both
the operational and direct costs of the lamps. CFE expects to use these funds to support its ongoing
energy conservation initiatives including promotion of high efficiency lighting in other parts of the
country.
26.   In Guadalajara, a recent customer survey undertaken by CFE indicated that: (i) 90% of the
participants of the ILUMEX project were satisfied with the product;(ii) over 80 % indicated that in
the future they would purchase the bulbs without a subsidized price; and (iii) among non-
participants only 51% did not know about the Project. In Monterrey, the ICR Mission found that:
(i) 90% of the Project participants were newcomers; (ii) 66% were familiar with the project but did
not participate; and (iii) 78% understand the economic benefits of FL use. In terms of coverage,
18.5% and 16% of households in Monterrey and Guadalajara, respectively, had participated in the
Project. Based on these positive results, the prospects for project sustainability (FLs to be replaced
by participants at the end of useful life) are good, but will depend on CFE's tariff policies and on
the future market cost of FLs.
27.   CFE has initiated a new high efficiency lighting project which will cover the entire country.
A total of about 6.1 million FLs would be installed in four years. The project is being financed by
CFE. While no discount will be given to the participants, lamps will be sold on termns with low
interest rates. The project is using the same organizational structure as the ILUMEX project,
including the executing agent, CFE, the financing agent, FIDE and the same operation guidelines
utilized in the GEF project. CFE will finance the new initiative with its own resources 175,000,000
Mexican pesos (approximately US$ 17.5 mill.) have been allocated for 1998.
28.   The results of the ILUMEX project and the new program initiated by CFE will be
disseminated at an intemational seminar to be held in Mexico scheduled for March 1999.
F.    Bank Performance
29.   Bank performance during preparation and appraisal was for the most part satisfactory.
However, the Bank preparation team should have considered including the specification of
monitoring and evaluation indicators to measure cost effectiveness, environmental impact, and
financial and energy usage target. Project monitoring and evaluation indicators (consultants
reports, baseline surveys and participant surveys) which were included were appropriate but
insufficient.
30.   Bank supervision was unsatisfactory. Most Bank supervision reporting focused narrowly
on the progress in achieving FL sales goals. Little attention was given to enforce the carrying out



-7-
of technical studies and survey data, which was later produced by CFE. At the same time,
however, the Bank could have done more in terms of providing guidance to CFE regarding
monitoring and evaluation of energy demand particularly as relates to analyzing the project's
impact energy consumption and C02 emissions, a most important rationale for Bank and GEF
support.
31.   The Bank also failed in its fiduciary role with regard to the management and accountability
of GEF and donors funds. When the first audit reports were issued for FY95, the Financial
Management/Accountability Team stated that these reports were not prepared in accordance with
Bank requirements and that the internal controls of the project were weak. Although this situation
was communicated to CFE, the deficiencies persisted up until project completion.
32.   Supervision efforts were hampered by numerous staff changes, but this was not the main
reason for unsatisfactory performance. The task manager position was changed three times over
three years, which reflected the high staff turnover in the LAC energy cluster. The main arguments
for the Bank's unsatisfactory performance was the failure to be more forceful in demanding the
execution of the studies to verify the project benefits and that appropriate changes could be
introduced following the Midterm Review. Basically, for most of the life of the project, not a
single Task Manager or a single unit of LAC felt responsibility for the project. In general,
supervision missions were adequately staffed and generated satisfactory performance ratings on
Supervision Forn 590. While the number of staff weeks devoted to supervision was adequate
(average two missions per year), the composition of the supervision teams should have been
broader and included climate change experts. The overall Bank performance is rated
unsatisfactory.
G.   Borrower (Grantee) Performance
33.   CFE performance can be characterized as satisfactory. Project reporting was for the most
part timely. However, project audit reports were not acceptable and submitted late and the CFE did
not complete the final evaluation report by the agreed upon deadline of June 30,1998. CFE has
asked the auditors to correct any shortcomings in their reports so as to meet all Bank requirements.
Regarding the M &E program, CFE bears some of the blame for not implementing it in a timely
fashion as they failed to hire the specialized consultants agreed to during project appraisal.
34.   The establishment of the fideicomisos in Guadalajara and Monterrey as implementing units
contributed to the positive project outcome. The main reasons were: a) the fideicomiso were able
to channel grant resources to beneficiaries without having to pass those resources through CFE's
treasury department which reduced bureaucratic delays; (b) administrative guidelines agreed to
with the Bank were well designed and efficient; c) hiring and firing of personnel is not subject to
CFE personnel policy - no carrying costs after project completion; and d) procurement is done
directly by the implementing units, and not through CFE.
35.   CFE was supposed to organize an international conference to present and discuss project
results in June 1997 following the preparation of the consultants reports. This deadline was not
met. Despite these shortcomings, the Grantee eventually complied with the reporting requirements
and will organize and implement the international conference in March 1999. National and



- 8 -
international experts will be invited. GEF and the Bank will review and comment on the proposed
seminar agenda.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
36.   The project outcome is satisfactory. CFE has been effective in outreach to clients through
sales stands and awareness campaigns. The executing agency showed a high level of ownership
and commitment which contributed significantly to achieving and in some cases exceeding the
targets for the project. One disappointing result, however, was the demand coincidence factor. In
the feasibility study for the project prepared by an international consultant, it was estimated that
the average number of FLs purchased and used by each participant of the program would be 3.0.
Based on this assumption, the coincidence factor was estimated to be 80%. In hindsight, this factor
was overestimated, however the Bank during supervision did not catch this over-estimate, as no
data was available, as previously mentioned. In fact, the average number of FLs sold to each
participant of the ILUMEX project was 10. A higher number of FLs in one home normally
resulted in a lower percentage of FLs being used at any time. As a result, the actual coincidence
factor was only 30%. Some other key outcomes included:
*    Avoided C02 emissions (for the life of the FLs - 9,000 hours) was 764,000 tons, compared
to 710,000 tons estimated at appraisal, plus the environmental benefits associated with lower
power generation.
*    The number of FLs installed during the official period of project implementation (1995-
1997) was slightly higher than estimated during appraisal. The unit cost per FL was US$
13.92 (vs. US$ 13.53), of which 18% or US$ 2.50 was overhead cost (vs. 18.7%). This
small variation in the total unit cost of FLs had no appreciable effect in the results of the
project.
*    A fully developed institutional capacity to implement high efficiency lighting projects at a
national scale.
*    A solid understanding on the part of CFE of the role of high efficiency lighting projects in
the overall DSM program.
*    A solid understanding of the economic dimensions of high efficiency lighting programs
including the role of both tariff and price subsidies.
37.   Another outcome of this project which merits mention is the fact that the Bank's Carbon
Offset Unit has selected Mexico as a pilot for testing verification of carbon savings. The pilot will
undertake a technical audit to validate project results in terms of the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions. The results of this audit will (1) strengthen the basis for the preparation and replication
of efficient lighting and similar DSM projects, in particular Mexico, and (2) deliver input for the
design of an approach to the verification and certification of GHG emission reductions.



- 9 -
Verification and certification of GHGs is required by Art. 12 Kyoto Protocol for projects that
generate GHG emission credits under the so called Clean Development Mechanism.
38.   Economic Benefits of the Project. The project's performance from the economic
perspective was analyzed by both CFE and the Bank. A summary of the key findings is presented
below. The detailed economic analysis can be found in Appendix C.
39.   The expected economic benefits of the project as described in the Memorandum of the
Director (MOD) were: (i) project participants will enjoy a comparable or higher lighting level at
reduced cost; and (ii) the society at large and CFE will be able to postpone new energy investments
because the project will reduce energy demand and, thereby, save fuel.
40.   The economic benefits were estimated based on project data and using the same
methodology as in the MOD. All costs are expressed in constant terms as of September 1998. All
taxes have been excluded, except for the analysis from the perspective of the participant as is
explained below. Following the same methodology described in the MOD, the costs and benefits
were calculated assuming that the FLs will not be replaced at the end of their useful life. If all or a
percentage of the FLs are replaced as is expected, the economic benefits will be higher than shown
below.
41.   The economic benefits to the nation were (i) the value of the capacity postponed by the
installation of the FLs (33.7 MW actual vs. 100 MW estimated at appraisal), valued at the LRMC
(US$ 126 vs. US$ 132.5); (ii) the yearly value of the energy not generated because of the MW
savings of the FLs (978 GWh total vs. 1,014 GWh) also valued at LRMC (US cent 2.9 per kWh vs.
US cent 6.2 per kWh); and the value of the incandescent light bulbs not installed.
42.   The internal rate of return (IRR) was calculated using data reported by CFE, which is based
on project implementation information and market surveys. The IRR from the nation's perspective,
as executed, was 35% vs. 56 % forecast at appraisal. The IRR did not reach the level estimated at
appraisal because capacity postponed by the project was only 33.7 MW instead of 100 MW. The
main reason for the lower capacity savings is related to the coincidence factor which was estimated
at appraisal to be 80% but whose real value during implementation was 30%.
43.   The economic benefits for CFE were: (i) the yearly repayment by participants of FLs sold
on terms; and (ii) the cost of the capacity and energy saved by the project (same as for the nation).
The CFE IRR was negative vs. 32% estimated at appraisal. The reasons for this result are: (i) the
benefits for saved capacity were low, for the same reason explained above for the nation; and (ii)
the cost of the energy saved by the project had a lower value for CFE, because the long run
marginal cost of energy or LRMC has today a lower value than in 1994 when the project was
appraised.
44.   The economic benefits for the project participants were: (i) the value of the incandescent
light bulbs not purchased because of the replacement with FLs; and (ii) the energy saved by the
FLs, which reduces the amount of the monthly electricity bill to the participants. The present
structure of CFE's residential tariffs changed, early in project execution, penalizing higher
consumption of energy by higher rates. Although the saved energy by the participants is close to



-10-
the estimate of the appraisal, its value is higher because of the large participation of higher
consumption users. As a consequence, the energy saved was valued at a higher cost, resulting in a
higher amount than at appraisal.
45.   The resulting IRR for the participants was much higher than estimated, because of the
higher monthly savings on the electricity bill achieved by the participants. The IRR for the project
as executed was 248% vs. 151% at appraisal.
I.    Future Operation
46.   The Fideicomisos will cease sales on December 31,1998. For calendar years 1999 and 2000
CFE will maintain a small administrative office in both cities, Guadalajara and Monterrey, which
will deal with customer problems including FL replacement under the purchase guarantee. CFE
will also continue to monitor different aspects of project impact including FL usage and purchasing
pattems by socio-economic group and replacement purchases. CFE has initiated a new high
efficiency lighting project which will cover the entire country. A total of about 6.5 million FLs
would be installed in four years. The project is being financed by CFE and therefore there is no
need for future GEF involvement in this sector.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
47.   The above analysis of project implementation suggests that the key lessons learned from
the project are:
(a)   In the case of Mexico where the implementation was carried out by an electric
utility (CFE), the establishment of independent trust funds (fideicomisos) were a
kev factor in achieving sales and coverage goals. These fideicomisos were set up
'>~7>"RANOBIAS and were shown to be efficient, low cost and expeditious, since
,-FE was able to retain control of the projects and introduced timely adjustments. It
also guaranteed that the funds, including those resulting from the credit sales to the
participants, were kept separate from those that entered into CFE's own treasury
and that they were used for the purposes of the project.
(b)   high technical specification and reliability of FLs were important considerations in
consumer acceptance.
i6  the price subsidy of FLs was important in overall marketing/sales strategy.
(d)   a tariff policy which provides large subsidies to low income consumers acts as a
disincentive to purchase FLs even when the price of the FLs are subsidized. Having
a tariff policy which sets the electricity equal to the LRMC will provide an
incentive to consumers to purchase FLs
(e)   the identification of appropriate project monitoring indicators and the regular
collection of data by the implementing agency are essential steps in evaluating
ongoing pilot project performance. Without rigorous monitoring, pilot projects'
success or failure will be difficult to determine.



- 1I -
(f)    decentralized Implementing Units (IUs) were a key factor in achieving sales and
distribution goals.



- 12 -
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial        Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                       Li               Li
Sector Policies                      L                Li
Financial Objectives                                  L                 L                 I]
Institutional Development                                               I                 1=1
Physical Objectives                                                     El L  LI
Poverty Reduction                    Li                0                L
_~nu,C,T .33uz:;                                      L .JI
Other Social Objectives              L                L                                    III
Environmental Objectives             Li                ,                L                  L
Public Sector Management             Li               L                 L
Private Sector Development           L                                  L                  Li
Other (specify)                      L                L                 L                  L
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(1)                        (/)                        (~/)
O~~iL



- 13 -
Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory                Deficient
($)                      (/)                       (V)
C. Bank Performance
Identification                      r                                                  Cl
Preparation Assistance               i                                                   l
Appraisal                                                                              El
Supervision                         ii
Outcome                        Unsatisfactory
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)            (v')            (1)
Preparation                                   z                              Ij
Implementation                                                               j a
Covenant Compliance                           al
Operation (if applicable)                     n                               O
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
E(v             (/              (E)               (E



- 14 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title      Purpose          Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. Power                                        1990             Completed
Transmission and
Distnbution (Mexico)
Following operations
2 Promotion of                                  1994              Ongoing
Electric Efficiency
Project (GEF-
Thailand)
3. Efficiency Lighting                          1995             Completed
Project (GEF-Poland)
4. Demand Side                                  1995              Ongoing
Management Project
(Jamaica)



-15 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned           Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                     October 1991
Preparation                                                    June 1992
Appraisal                                  August 1993         October 1993
Negotiations                               December 1993       February 1994
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                                        l
Board Presentation                         March 1994          March 1994
Signing                                    June 1994          June 1994
~'Effectiveness                             September 1994      February 1995
First Tranche Release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)             September 1995      June /July 1996
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if
applicable)
Project Completion                         December 31, 1 99',  December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                               December 31, 1996  December 31 1997



- 16-
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(Includes Norwegian Grant - in millions of US$)
FY 94        FY 95      FY 96      FY97
Appraisal Estimate             .65           6.5        5.85
Actual                         0             2.2        9.4        2.2
Actual as % of Estimate        0%            34%        161%
Date of Final Disbursement     March 1997
Note: The actual GEF/Norway amount disbursed of US$13.8 million exceeded the appraisal
estimate of US 13.0 million due to the variation of exchange rates (SDR and NKr) vis-a -vis the
US$.



- 17 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SARI              Estimated                      Actual
President's Report
1. Accumulated Sales of CFLs        1,700,000                     1,712,337
2. Marketing Survey         3 and 15 months after project   Dec. 1994, Feb. 1996, Aug.
2. Mrketng Srveystart                             1998
3. Laboratory Testing       Fls first submitted as sample by  9 times over the life of project
all bidders, and subsequently a
random selection from the first
delivery made by the selected
contractor
4. Baseline Survey                 At Project Start                  1992
5. Sales and Participants
Satisfaction Survey          3 and 15 months after project    Junc 1996; July 1998
start
6. Survey on Hours of CFL    6 and 18 months after project        July 1998
Use
start



- 18 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
I. Key Operating Indicators
in SAR/President's              Estimated                     Actual
Report
1. Semir-Annual Progress          June/December                Bi-annually
Reports
2. Auditing Reports              Annual-December             Received annually
3. Mid-term Project                 June 1995                 June/July 1996
Implementation Review
4. Final Project Evaluation       December 1997                August 1998
1. Bi-annual Supervision            1-2 per year                2 per year
Missions



- 19-
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study             Purpose as Defined at       Status
Implementation                             Impact of Study
1. Baseline Survey       Baseline Data Collection    Completed prior  Provide reliable
to FLs sales    information for
monitoring and
2. The market for                 .                                 evaluation
2.uThesmakent for        To determine any          Completed
Incandescent Bulbs in    shortcomings in the sale    during project    Assess market size
Monterrey, 1995          process                   execution
3. The market for        Consumer preference       Completed        Initiate 3rd Bid
Fluorescent Bulbs Among                            during project
Consumers who use 15-                              execution
400KWh every two
months, 1996.
4. Participants Satisfaction   Key project         Completed        Determine most
Survey. 1996             implementation indicators  during project    popular Fls
execution       Voltage
5. Study of Non-         Key project               Completed        Understanding of
participants from the    implementation indicators  during project    factors contributing to
Lowest and Interrnediate                           execution        non-participation
Category of Consumers.
1997.
6. Tepic and Colima (state   Key project           Completed in    Provide more realistic
capitals) Market Study   implementation indicators   Dec/97         estimates on bulb use
1997                                                               in future projects.
7. Usage and Coincidence   To verify project appraisal  Completed after  No Impact
Factors in Monterrey 1998   estimates and estimate  project closing
energy savings           date
8. Study of Participants,  Key project             Completed after  No impact
Non-participants and     implementation indicators  project closing
Specialized Stores 1998  and to verify project     date
appraisal estimates.



- 20-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local      Foreign        Total       Local    Foreign         Total
Item               Costs       Costs                     Costs      Costs
I.Lamps and            .2          14.2         14.4         0          21.8'         21.82
Equipment
2. Services            .77          .03         .81          0            .4           .4
3. Engineering         1.5           0           1.5        1.2           0            1.2
and Management
4. Administrative      1.6           0           1.6        2.5           0            2.5
Costs
5. Unallocated         1.0          3.6         4.6          0            0             0
TOTAL               5,180        17,820      23,000        3.7         22.2          25.9
This includes all budget fornmally designated as Unallocated
2 This includes all budget formally designated as Unallocated



- 21 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Source                Local       Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign   Total
Costs      Costs                 Costs      Costs
GEF Grant             0           10.0       10.0       0.         10.70      10.70
CFE                   4.3         5.7        10.0       1.1        11.0       12.1'
Kingdom of Norway     0           3.0        3.0        0          3.15       3.15
TOTAL                 4.3         18.7       23.0       1.1        24.85      25.95
This figure includes US$973.000 of reflows from sales of CFLs



- 22 -
TABLE SA
ILUMEX PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Price levels of August 1998)
Basi data for the .conoric anaIysIs
Marginl cost of cpsoity (distribution leel)  USSAkWyear  125,8
Malrgal cost of energy (d6tribution level)    USehWh     3.3
Erwgy oues T&D                            'A            18.5
Cacity los"s peak hours                                 23.5
Useful We odCFLC                         Hours          9000
Useful life of incarndesce   gt bulbs    Hours           750
Ulization                              Hours(day         3.5
Peak coincidence facor                     %              30
Average total ooat of CFL                 USS          13.92
Cost of Incanscenrt 1Vh bulb              USS           0.35
C02 avoided per kIU saved               9W6h 111         0.7
1995      1996     1997      1999     1999     2000      2001     2002     2003     200t    2005       2006     2007      2006
NurnberolCFLssoldperyear                  445,204   685.767  581,390         0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Number ofCFL*ssold (cumulati,e)           445204  1,130,971 1,712.361 1,712,361 1,712,361 1,712,361 1,712,361 1,712,361 1,712,361 1,712,361 1,712.361 1,712 361 1,712.361 1,712,361
Number of CFLs in s trt                   445,204  1,130,971 1.712,361 1,712.361 1,712,361 1,703,092 1.625,546 1.355,194  999 7S1  538627  223.499  108,800   83 870   37,793
CosiofCCFLsperyearUSS                    9,724,000 12.3S0,000 1,732.065      0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Pyment ly chents US$ (vh IVA)            1.667,595  4.821,647 4,573,631 2.068.154  746,939
Payront ecients USS (no fVA)             1,450,063  4.192,737 3,977,070 1.798.395  649,512
Number of incanscont bulbs saved
Cost of incandescent bunbo saved USS      230,501   621.757 1.086,857  953.053  953,053  947.894  904.734  754.263  556,450  298.672   124,393   80.616   46,690   21,035
Cpa ly saved MW                                4.2      15.2      27.8     335      33.5     333        32      274      20.9      11.6      49       2.4       18       0.8
Ne fcapectyssving MW                          32        11.6     21.3      256      25.6     255      24.5      210      16.0       89       37       1.6      1.4       06
Energy savedGWrh                             18.1       828     112.3    1351      135.1    1343      127.7    104.6     752      392       16.2      7.9      61       27
Net energy aving GVV                          14.7      511      91.4    110.0    110.0    109 3    1032.       65.1     61 2     31 9      13.2      64       5.0       2 2
Costol apaity savedUSS                    421,160  1,487,939 2,681,171 3,228.784 3.228.784 3.211,307 3,065,087 2,555,310 1.885,161 1,011,850  421.423  205.356   158.144   71,261
Cost of energy stved USS                  486,202  1.688,934 3,016.603 3.629.056 3,629,05d 3,607.567 3,430,277 2.809,765 2.020.022 1,052.990  435.164  212.210  163.858   72,527
Energy saved by dients GW1                   1t8        62.8    1123      135.1    135.1    134.3    1277    104.6       752      392       16.2      79       61        27
Cost of energy savd byclien,t USS          922,106  3.899,313 8,859.395 9,343.097 9343,097 9,288.292 8.829,755 7.231,151 5,200,405 2.708,549  117.380  544.490  419309  188946
Totsl C02 emissions avoided,tons            12,670    43,960   78,610   94.570   94,570   94,010   89.390   73,220   52.640   27.440   11,340    5.530    4,270    1.890
Nole lt Average emission factor based on avoid"d energy as follovws
Guadalajar, 10% avoided generation at Mannzillo power plenl. 100% fuel oil generation (0 75 kg on C02/kWh)
Monterey, avoided energy ba3ed on 48% fel oil (0 75 k&Whl) and 52% gas (0 55 kg CO2hVWh)



- 23 -
TABLE 9D
iLLJMEX PROJECT
ECONOlIC ANALYSIS
(Price levels of August 199J)
IRR CALCULATIONS
Concept                            1995       1996     1997      19i       1999      2000       2001      2002     2003      2004     2005    2-00      2007    2008
POINT OF VIEW OF COUNTRY
Costs:
CostofCFLS                 -9,724.000 -12.380,000 -1,732.065     0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0        0
Benetib:
IncandICNd bulbs saed        230.501    621.757 1.086,857   953,053   953,053   947,894    904,734   754,263   556,450   298,672  124,393   80.616   46.680   21,035
Codtolcapadly saved          421,160   1,487.939 2.881,171  3.228,784 3.228.784  3,211.307  3,005,087  2,555,318  t.885,161  1,011,650  421,423  205,356  158,144   71.261
Cost of enefgy saved         486.202   1,686.934 3.016,603 3,829,056 3.629,056  3,607.567  3,430.277  2,809,765 2.020,022  1.052,990  435,164  212,210  163,858   72.527
Benefits-Costs:               4,586,137  4.583.370 5.052.566 7,810,893 7,810,893  7,768.768  7,400.098  6,119,346 4.461.633  2,363,512  980,980  478,182  368,682  164,823
Internal Rate Of Retum (IRR)       29X
POINT OF VIEW OF CFE
Costs:
Cost ofCFLs                -9,724.000 -12.380.000 -1,732.065     0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0        0
Cost of energy saved by users   .922,108  -3,899,313 48,859,395 -9,343.097 -9.343,097 .9.288,292  -8.829.755 .7.231,151 -5.200.405 -2,708,549  -117,380 -544.490  .4 I 9,309 -188,948
Bmnef t.
PaymentofCFLssold           1,450.083  4,192,737 3,977.070  1.798,395   649.512      0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0        0
Costofapecty saved           421.160   1,487,939 2,681,171  3.228.784 3.228,784  3,211.307  3,065,087  2,555,318  1,885,161  1.011,850  421,423  205.356  158,144   71,281
Cost of energy saved         486.202   1,686,934 3.016,603 3,629.056 3,629.056  3,607.567  3,430,277  2.809,765 2,020,022  1,052.990  435.164  212.210  163,858   72,527
Benefts-Costs:                4.,288,663  -8,911.704  -916,616  86,862 -1,835,745 -2.469,418  .2,334,39i -1,866.068 -1.295,222  -643,709  739,207 -126,924  -97.307  -45,158
Inenaml Rafe of Retrtn (IRR)  tegiOve
POINT OF VIEW OF CFE (Consdering DSM)
Costs:
Cost of CFLs               .9,724,000 -12.380,000 -1.732.065     0         0         0          0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0
Benefits:
PayrnentofCFLs sold         1.450,083   4.192,737 3,977.070  1,798,395   649,512     0          0         0        0         0        0        0        O        0
Cootofcapacitysaved          421,160   1,487,939 2,681,171  3,228.764 3,228,764  3,211.307  3,065,087  2,555,318  1.885.161  t.011t850  421,423  205,356  158,144   71,261
enefits-Costs.                -7.852,757  4.899,324 4,926,178 5,027,179 3,878,296  3.211.307  3,065.087  2,555.318  1,885,161  1,011,850  421,423  205.356  158,144   71,261
Internal Rate of Returnl(IRR)      16%
POINT OF VIEW OF PARTICIPANT
Costs:
PaymentofCFLs              -1,667.595  *4,821.647 4,573,631 -2.068,154  -746,939     0          0        0         0         0        0        0        0        0
Benefib:
Incandescentbut$ssaved       230.501    621,757 1.086,857   953.053   953.053   947,894    904.734   754.263   556,450   298,672  124,393   60.616   46.680   21.035
Costof energy saved by users    922,108  3,899,313 8,859,395 9.343,097 9,343,097  9,288.292  8,829,755  7,231,151 5,200,405  2,708,549  117,380  544.490  419,309  t88,946
Benefi.s-Costs:                 -514,986   -300,577 5.372,621 8.227.996 9,549.211 10,236.186  9,734,489  7.985,414  5.756,855  3.007.221  241.773  605.d10   465,909  209,981
ttemal Rate of Relwn (IRR)        277X



- 24 -
TABLE 1OA: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Project Agreement
Section    Covenant   Status        Original        Revised            Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type                 Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date           Date
2.08 (a)       S          C                                     Hold annual reviews of the progress of the   An average of two
progress of the project with the trustee not   supervision missions
later than August 31 of each year.      per year.
2.08(b)       5           C                                     Provide to the trustee one month prior to  During supervision
each annual review a progress report on  missions CFE
the implementation of the project.      submitted these reports
to the Bank .
2.08(d)       5           C                                     Hold a midterm review with the Trustee   Due to delays in
not later than August 31,1995; particular    declaring the project to
attention will be given to the          be effective, the mid-
accomplishment of the sales targets set  term review was
forth in the Monitoring and Evaluation  postponed until June
Indicators and to the redesign of the   /July 1996. Sales of
Executing Arrangements in order to      CFLs reached targets
enable the project to reach its objectives.    set at Appraisal.
208(e)        5         Partial                                 Promptly take all such action, satisfactory   The Fidecomisos were
to the Trustee, as shall be necessary for the  modified in order to
efficient execution of the Project or the  increase the coverage
achievement of its objectives, if as a result  of the project and to
of any such annual or midtenm review,   increase the purchasing
progress in the execution of the project or   level for bulbs from 6
in the achievement of its objectives is not   to 10. The consultants
satisfactory to the Trustee.            to undertake evaluation
did not complete the
2.08(0        5           C                                                                              studies until after
project closing date
The report was
2.09         5        Partial                                  Provide the completion report referred to    delivered to the Bank
in Section 9.07 of the General Conditions    on August 17,1998
no later than June 30, 1998.
C                                     No later than December 31, 1997, or at  CFE will hold the
such time as may be acceptable to the   seminar in March 1999.
trustee, CFE shall hold a seminar for the
Mexican and intemational community
interested in the subjects of efficient use of
3.03         5           C                                     electricity for lighting and the reduction of
greenhouse gases on the basis of the
results obtained.
Partial                                  CFE shall take out and maintain with    CFE extended
4.01(a)       5                                                 responsible insurers insurance against such  insurance coverage to
risks and in such amounts as shall be   cover inventories at all
consistent with appropriate practice.   sales sites.
4.01(b i)       5                                                CFE shall maintain records and accounts    CFE stated they will
adequate to reflect sound accounting            comply
practices.
CFE shall have separate records and     The auditing reports for
accounts and financial statements for each   fiscal year 1997 are not
of the Implementing Units for each fiscal   fully satisfactory. They
year audited, in accordance with generally   are not fully consistent
accepted auditing standards and         with the projects
procedures, by independent and qualified    financial reports in



- 25 -
auditors.                               relation to fund flows.
CFE has asked the
auditors they prepare
the financial reports to
meet World Bank
4.01(b ii)      5                                                                                         requirements.
Fumish to the Trustee as soon as available,  In cases where CFE
C                                     but in any case not later than six months    was unable to meet the
after the end of each such year: (A) a  agreed upon dates, the
certified copy of the financial statements    Bank was advised and
for such year as so audited, and (B) the  extension of the
4.01(b          5                                                report of such audit by said auditors of  deadlinle was granted
iii)                                                             such scope and in such detail as the
Trustee shall have reasonably requested.
C                                     Fumish to the Trustee such other        CFE complied
information conceming said records,
accounts, and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Trustee from
time to time reasonably request.
Covenant Type:
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency



- 26 -
TABLE 1OB: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Fund Grant Agreement
Section    Covenant   Status        Original        Revised            Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type                 Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date           Date
4.04           5           C                                     The Guarantor and the Recipient shall    They participated fuli.
participate in the annual and midtermn   in both reviews.
reviews referred to in section 2.08 of the
Project Agreement.
5.01(a)        5           C                                     The Recipient shall maintain or cause to  Sound accounting
be maintained records and separate      practices are in effect.
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance   Records of
with sound accounting practices the      expenditures were
resources and expenditures in connection    maintained.
with the execution of the project
5.01            5
(b)(i)                   Partial                                 The Recipient shall have the records and  Audits completed but
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of    delayed in i 995 and
this section for each fiscal year audited, in   1996.
accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and procedures
consistently applied by independent and
qualified auditors.
5.01            5        Partial                                 The recipient shall fumish to the Trustee  1995 and 1996 Audit
(b)(ii)                                                          as soon as available, but in any case not  reports delayed. Final
later than six months after the end of each   audit did not fully
such year, the report of such audit by such   comply with Bank
auditors, of such scope and in such detail   guidelines. Auditors are
as the Trustee shall have reasonably    revising audit report
requested.
5.01            5        Partial                                 The recipient shall fumish to the Trustee  Auditors are revising
(b)(iii)                                                         such other information conceming said    audit report
reports and accounts as well as the audit
thereof as the Trustee shall from time to
time reasonably request                  .      _       _
Covenant Type:
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency



- 27 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Compliance with Operational Manual Statements is not applicable and thus not included



- 28-
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                            Planned         Revised          Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks   US$   Weeks    US$  Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                               39     85.9
Appraisal-Board                                                       20      49.1
Negotiations through Board Approval                                   10.4   25.3
Supervision                                                          24.9   118.2
Completion                                                             8      35.0
TOTAL                                                               102.3  313.5



- 29 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized          Implement    Development
Stage of          Month/         of         Weeks in      Staff Skills            ation       Objectives       Types of
Project Cycle         Year       Persons        Field      Represented              Status                       Problems
Through Appraisal          1992          2           7.3
August         3           5.3      Operations Officer           I              1
1993
Environmental Spec
Power Engineer
Appraisal through       July 1994        3           3.3       Operations Officer          I              I             Nove
Board Approval
Supervision                1995          I           .5                                    1              1             None
April         2           3.1      Power Engineer               I              I           Delays in
1996                                                                                       receiving
i  1997      2           2.4       Economist                    I              I         Audit Reports
2           2.4                                   1                          Delays in
receiving
Audit Reports
Completion                 1998          2            2       Power Engineer               _             -






-31 -                           Appendix A
MWXTCO
PROYECTO ILUMEX
MISION DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO
Agosto 16 al 26 de 1998
AYUDA MEMORLk
1.  INTRODUCCION
1.1    El Banco Mundial envi6 a Mexico una misi6n para el cierre del Proyecto
ILUMEX, proyecto que fie financiado con recursos de CFE y con donaciones del GEF y
del Gobierno de NorLega. La misi6n fie integrada por los senores Enrique Vanegas y
Luis Luzuriaga y estuvo en el pars del 16 al 26 de agosto de 1998. Se menciona que el
Banco Mundial y CFE invitaron al Gobierno de Noruega para que envie delegados a
participar en la misi6n, pero no se pudo contar con su presencia.  El prop6sito de la
misi6n fue recibir de CFE la informaci6n final de los resultados obtenidos en la ejecuci6n
del proyecto y discutir el futuro del proyecto ILUMEX.
1.2    La misi6n deja constancia y agradece la colaboraci6n y apoyo que recibio de
CFE, de la unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto, de las unidades sectoriales de Jalisco y Nuevo
Le6n y de BANOBRAS. El Anexo I lista las personas que participaron en las reuniones
de trabajo.
2.  PRINCIPALES FECHAS DE EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
2. 1    La siguiente tabla muestra las fechas principales previstas y reales en la ejecuci6n
del proyecto:
Prevista                Real
Terminaci6n del estudio de factibilidad
preparado por el IIEC                      Diciembre, 1992        Diciembre, 1992
...................................................... ...........................................................
Misi6n de evaluaci6n del proyecto
(Banco   Mutndial  y   Gobierno   de   Octubre 13, 1993           Octubre 13, 1993
:Nonjega)
N . ... ru  e     a)............................................... ............................ ...............................
Informe del Banco (Memorandum and
Recommendation)                            NMarzo 8, 1994          Marzo S. 1994
Firma del Convenio de donacion                Abril, 1994          Junio 10. 1994
a ~    ~~~~~ .:..    . . .    .. .. .. .......  ...........       .....         ....         ........  .....       .-.   .....       .....         ...     -----:     
Primera entrega de LFC de la primera:
licitaci6n          .   .        - -   .    Mayo, 1994               Abril 1995   .
fl , ,~~~~~. .             ....  .......     ............ . ................    .............  ! ..  9 .....-' 
Constitucion  de  los Fideicomisos de
Jalisco y deNuevoLe6n                   '    Junio, 1994             Junio 1994
/          .....................  .......................................................................................



-32 -                          Appendix A
........... ...........................................................   ........   ..........................
',Inicia de las ventas de LFC          ,    Junio, 1994     '     Mayo 1995
Evaluacion  intermedia  del  proyecto       Junio, 1995
(Mid-term review)                                                 Julio 1996
.........................................h............ ...  ...a.............. ........................... a
Cierre oficial del proyecto             Diciembre 31, 1996   Diciembre 31, 1997
Seminario de difsi6sn de resultados                        '  Previsto: Febrero
1999
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........................................,:
Informe de evaluaci6n final preparado
' ,porCFE                                  Junio 30, 1998       Agosto 17. 1998
Informe final del proyecto (ICR) del                              Previsto:
Banco                                                        Septiembre 30. 1998
.................................................................................................  ..... ...
3.   OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
3.1    Los objetivos del proyecto fiieron los siguientes: (a) demostrar la factibilidad de
reducir emisiones gaseosas (GHG) nocivas mediante el uso masivo de lamparas de alta
eficiencia luminica; (b) fortalecer la capacidad institucional de CFE para implementar
cambios tecnologicos que prornuevan la conservaci6n de energia, (c) desarrollar un
modelo de control de demanda (Demand Side Management o DSM) que pueda ser
aplicado en otras areas de Mexico y del mundo; y (d) fortalecer la capacidad de CFE para
implantar programas de DSM en forma sustentable. En su Informe de Evaluaci6n Final,
CFE analiza la realizaci6n de estos objetivos.
3.2    El proyecto ILUMTEX  previ6  la instalaci6n de 1.7 millones de lamparas
fluorescentes compactas (LFC) a un costo total de US$ 23 millones, equivalente a un
precio unitario total de US$ 13.53 por lampara. A la fecha oficial de cierre del proyecto,
Diciembre 31 de 1997, se instalaron 1,712,361 LFC, a un costo total de US$ 23.83
millones, equivalente a un precio unitario de US$ 13.92 por LFC. Se resalta que el
proyecto ejecutado es esencialmente igual at programado y no hubo sobrecostos. La
diferencia de USS 0.83 millones entre el presupuesto inicial y el ejecutado se debe al
mayor numero de limparas adquirido.
3.3    Las unidades ejecutoras o Fideicomisos de Nuevo Le6n (Monterrey) y Jalisco
(Guadalajara) cesarin ventas en Diciembre 31, 1998. Para esa fecha, CFE espera haber
instalado un total de 2,490,500 LFC, a un costo total aproximado de US$ 33.82 millones,
equivalenlte a un costo unitario de US$ 13.58 por limpara.  En 1999 y 2000, CFE
mantendri una unidad administrativa reducida en Guadalajara y Monterrey, para atender
los aspectos legales con clientes usuarios de LFC, incluyendo reemplazo de LFC danadas
y bajo garantia. Se estima que los saldos de LFC a Diciembre 31, 1998 seran cero. La
recuperaci6n de fondos del periodo 1998 al 2000, por concepto de LFC vendidas a plazo,
se estima en USS 7.4 millones. El saldo remanente luego del pago del saldo de la tercera
._. zi   licitaci6n, sera utilizada por CFE en prog,ramas de ahorro de energia en los estados de
Sonora y Sinaloa. Esos programas incluyen mejoras al aislamiento termico de %iviendas,
modernizaci6n de sistemas de aire acondicionado residencial y limparas fluorescentes
compactas para vivienda. La utilizaci6n de la recuperaci6n de fondos para este tipo de
p >lX anias esti permitida en las Gujias de Operaci6n del Proyecto ILULIEX.
4\v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 33 -                       Appendix A
4.  COSTO DEL PROYECTO
4.1   Seguin los detalles del Anexo 3, el costo total del proyecto ejecutado en el pernodo
1994 a Diciembre 31, 1997 (1,865,133 LFC, incluyendo LFC no instaladas que quedaron
en bodega) fue de US$ 25,957,000, financiados en la siguiente forma:
. Fuente                      Monto y moneda          . US$ Equivalente
,CFE                           _                  _     11,112,000
. GEF                         7,300,000 SDR             10,719,000
Gobierno de Noruega          20,250,000 NKr (coronas)  .,,154,000
Recuperaci6n de fondos (CFE)    _ _ __ __                973,000
Total                                                 2 p5,957,000
5.    CUMPLIMIENTO DE LAS CLAUSULAS CONTRACTUALES
5.1    A continuaci6n se presenta el grado de cumplimiento de las principales clausulas
contractuales del Convenio Proyecto (Project Agreement):
No         de Condiciones Estipuladas            Cumplimiento  Coinentarios
Cldusula
Secci6n  2.08  Sostener reuniones anuales con el Si             Las misiones  se
a)             Banco  acerca  del  avance  del                  efectuaron    en
proyecto                                        promedio 2 veces
al ano
(b)            Un mes antes de las reuniones arriba Si          Durante       las
mencionada,  CFE   enviara  un                  misiones       de
inforrne de avance del proyecto                 supervisi6n,  CFE
entregaba al Banco
dichos informes
I /   (c) )    Incluir en  dichos informes una Si
comparacion de lo real con los
indicadores
(d)            Sostener una revisi6n a mediados Si              Debido al atraso de
del proyecto (mid-term)  no mas                 un anio en declarar
tarde del 31 de agosto de 1995; en              efectivo       el
dicha reuni6n se prestara especial              provecto, se tuvo
atenci6n al alcance de la cuota de              que posponer hasta
ventas de acuerdo a los indicadores             julio de 1996. La
de gesti6n y redisefiar el proyecto en          cuota de ventas fue
caso que fuera necesario                        alcanzada.
(e)            Tomar rapidamente  las medidas Si                Los  fideicomisos
apropiadas, satisfactorias al Banco,            fueron



-_34 -                           Appendix A
cuando  fuera  necesario  para  la                  modificados  para
eficiente   implementaci6n    del                   ampliar         la
proyecto o para lograr el alcance de                cobertura      del
los objetivos                                       proyecto   y   se
aument6 el techo
de  compra   del
usuario de 6 a 10
larnparas
(f)              Enviar el informe de terminaci6n  Si                El  informe   fue
(ICR) referido en la secci6n 9.07 de                entregado el 17 de
las condiciones generales a mds                     agosto de 1998
tardar el 30 de junio de 1998
Secci6n 2.09    No mrs tarde del 31 de diciembre de  Si              CFE         planea
1997 o cualquier fecha posterior,                   realizar     dicho
aceptable al Banco, la CFE celebrara                evento en febrero
un seminario para las autoridades                   de 1999
mexicanas   y    la   comunidad
internacional interesadas en el tema
de uso eficiente de energia para
alumbrado y reducci6n de gases de
efecto invernadero, basado en los
resultados obtenidos del proyecto.
Secci6n 3.03     CFE  se compromete a tomar y  Si                    CFE   ampli6  la
mantener un seguro  contra  todo                    cobertura      del
riesgo y en un monto consistente con                seguro   de   los
las practicas nacionales                            inventarios     en
bodega a los sitios
de venta
Secci6n   4.01  CFE debera llevar los registros y  Si
(a)             cuentas separadas que reflejen los
recursos y gastos del proyecto de
acuerdo a principios de contabilidad
generalmente aceptados
(b i)            Elaborar estados financieros para  Parcialmente    El informe de los
cada  una  de  las  unidades  de                    auditores     que
ejecuci6n por cada anio fiscal, los                 refleje la relaci6n
que estaran sujetos a revisi6n por                  evidente (cruce de
auditores    independientes      y                  cifras)  entre  el
calificados                                         informe sobre los
estados financieros
del proyecto y los
estados financieros
de            los
fideicomisos, esta
aun en proceso de
integracion.
4



-___________  35__ ___ ___  -__  Appendix  A
(b ii)           Proporcionar al Banco, en un plazo  Si               En casos de atrasos
que no exceda de seis mese, despues                  CFE      solicitaba.
del final de cada afno  fiscal los                   exenciones,    las
informes de auditoria                                cuales      fueron
otorgadas
(b iii)         CFE   proporcionara   al   banco  Si
informaci6n de los registros, cuentas
y estados financieros relacionados
con el proyecto, cuando sean
requeridos por el Banco
6.  DATOS PARA LA EVALUACION ECONOMICA
6.1    El Anexo 4 muestra los parametros basicos para la evaluaci6n econ6mica y
ambiental del proyecto ILUMEX. En una colurnna se presentan los valores que flieron
estimados en el documento de evaluaci6n del Banco, y en la otra los valores reales
alcanzados por el proyecto ejecutado hasta el 31 de Diciembre de 1997, que incluy6 la
instalaci6n de 1,712,361 LFC.
7.   RESULTADOS OBTENIDOS
7.1    El informe de evaluaci6n final del proyecto preparado por CFE, incluye el calculo
y la evaluaci6n de todos los costos y beneficios del proyecto, algunos de los cuales se
muestran en el Anexo 4. La evaluaci6n de la energia y potencia de punta ahorradas por el
proyecto se bas6 en las encuestas realizadas para el uso diario de las LFC y el factor de
simultaneidad del uso de las larnparas. Los principales resultados del proyecto son los
siguientes:
;- - - - -- - -   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  .    ;,... .........  ... ..
Concepto                       . Previsto              Real
Tasa interna de retorno (TIR):
Punto de vista de la naci6n    135% (probable)
. 56% (minimo)         32.2%
Punto de vista de CFE          66% (probable)        Caso 1, Negativo
32% (minimo)          Caso 2, 58.0%
Caso 3,22.8%
,   \     t   ..- -- -- -- -- - -- -- .--- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - .... .. ............ ..................
Punto de vista del participante  15 1% (minimo)      248.2%
-------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Toneladas de CO2 evitadas       709,800                763,692
7.2    La tasa interna de retorno (TIR) bajo el punto de vista de la naci6n fue inferior al
estimado en la evaluaci6n del proyecto, debido a que los beneficios de la energia
ahorrada por el proaecto fueron muy inferiores, pues la caida del precio de los
5



- 36 -                         Appendix A
combustibles caus6 una disminuci6n de 50% de los costos marginales de energia (USO
6.2 estimados, vs USO 2.9 actuales). Bajo el punto de vista de CFE, (Caso 1), la tasa
tambien fue inferior, por las mismas razones. Adicionalmente, el beneficio econ6mico de
lo usuarios, que equivale a una disminuci6n de ingresos de CFE, fue superior al estimado
debido a que participaron en mayor proporci6n los usuarios con altos consumos. Se debe
aclarar que los pliegos tarifarios de CFE penalizan altamente a los altos consumos (son
desincentivadoras del alto consumo). El Caso 2 resulta en una tasa TIR de 58.0%,
asumiendo que la energia no facturada por CFE (igual a la ahorrada por el usuario
participante) es facturada por CFE a otros clientes no usuarios de LFC. En el Caso 3 se
supone que CFE no se beneficia con la energia evitada a nivel de generacion, y se tiene
una TIR de 22.8%.
7.3    Estos casos son explicados en el informe de CFE. Con el objeto de verificar los
calculos de CFE y validar los resultados, la misi6n prepar6 un modelo de calculo de la
TIR, que se muestra en el Anexo 6.
8.    EVALUACION DE LOS BENEFICIOS AMBIENTALES
8.1   El informe  de CFE  presenta  los beneficios ambientales del proyecto,
cuantificando las emisiones de gases evitadas por el ahorro de energia del proyecto, los
cuales se sumarizan en el Anexo 4. En cuanto a dioxido de carbono (CO,). el ahorro de
978 GWh en la vida del proyecto, equivale a un total de 763,692 toneladas de CO2
evitadas. Este valor fue determinado por CFE, basado en las fuentes de generacion del
proyecto: (a) 53% de la generaci6n evitada proveniente de la central Manzanillo
(Guadalajara), que consume 100% de combust6leo, que produce 0.73 kg de CO, por kWh
generado, y (b) 47% de la generaci6n evitada proveniente de la central NMonterrey, que
consume 49% de combust6leo y 51% de gas (indices de 0.96 y 0.69 kg C02/kWh,
respectivamente). El indice resultante es 0.7807 kg de CO2 por kWh ahorrado.
9.  PLAN PARA EL MONITOREO FUTURO
9.1    Conforme se indica mas arriba, CFE cerrari las operaciones de ventas de LFC de
los FILUMEX de Guadalajara y de Monterrey en Diciembre 31, 1998, fecha para la cual
todas las 1armparas compradas en las tres licitaciones internacionales (2,490.500) habran
sido vendidas. En esta formna, el Proyecto ILUMEX habra sido concluido. CFE esta
satisfecho con los resultados del proyecto, los cuales han servido para el disefno de un
nuevo proyecto de iluminaci6n eficiente descrito mas adelante. CFE espera realizar
encuestas en el futuro en las areas del proyecto ILUMEX, con el fin de deterrninar el
grado de persistencia del proyecto, esto es, para determninar si el proyecto contribuy6 a
modificar permanentemente los habitos de los participantes en el uso de energia electrica
para iluminaci6n, y que porcentaje de los participantes de ILUMEX continuian
reemplazando las lamparas al final de su vida util. El Anexo 5 muestra el plan de CFE
para monitoreo futturo del proyecto ILUMEX.
10.  NUEVOS PROGRAMAS DE LAMPARAS FLUORESCENTES DE CFE
6



- 37 -                         Appendix A
10.1  Basado en la exitosa experiencia del proyecto ILUMEX, CFE-inici6 en 1998 dos
nuevos programas de ahorro de energia, basados en la sustituci6n de lamparas
incandecentes por lamparas fluorecentes compactas y circulares, para usuarios
residenciales.  El primer programa sustituira 783,000 LFC en las Divisiones de
Distribuci6n Centro Occidente, Centro Sur y Peninsular, y el segundo sustituira las
restantes para liegar a 6,100,000 LFC en todo el territorio nacional en el anio 2001.
10.2  Los recursos iniciales para financiar el programa, $ 175 millones de pesos hasta el
anio 1998, seran suministrados por CFE. El ente ejecutor es FIDE, Fideicomiso para el
Ahorro de Energia.  Las lamparas seran vendidas a plazos, sin descuentos.  La
recuperaci6n de fondos sera utilizada por FIDE para continuar financiando el programa
en un futuro. El nuevo programa utilizara las Guias de Operaci6n utilizadas en el
proyecto ILUMEX.  Se utilizaran los servicios de consultores para la supervisi6n
peri6dica del cumplimiento de metas. Tambien se utilizaran laboratorios independientes
para asegurar la calidad de las ldmparas. Al igual que el proyecto ILUMEX, luego de las
evaluaci6nes peri6dicas, los programas regionales podran ser modificados para cumplir
con las metas anuales de ventas.
11.   SEMINARIO DE DIFUSION DE LOS RESULTADOS DE ILUMEX
11.1  CFE organizara en febrero de 1999, un seminario internacional para la difusi6n de
los resultados del proyecto ILUMEX. El seminario sera en alguna ciudad del pais a ser
oportunamente seleccionada por CFE. Seran invitados a participar (a) los organismos y
ejecutivos mexicanos involucrados en el tema de ahorro de energia, los ejecutivos de las
Divisiones de Distribuci6n de CFE, los ejecutivos de Luz y Fuerza del Centro; (b) los
gerentes de empresas de comercializaci6n de energia electrica de Latinoarnerica; (c)
organizaciones y universidades nacionales e intemacionales involucradas en el tema de
ahorro de energia. CFE preparara oportunamente el programa del seminario, que sera
remitido al Banco, al GEF y al Gobierno de Noruega para informaci6n. CFE cubrira los
costos de organizaci6n del seminario, y los asistentes pagaran por sus gastos de viaje y
hotel.
12.  INFORME FINAL DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO PREPARADO
POR CFE
12.1  Se deja constancia de que la mision recibio el informe de evaluaci6n del proyecto,
preparado por CFE, y de los informes de ejecuci6n de las unidades ejecutoras de
Monterrey y Guadalajara. El Anexo 2 lista los informes recibidos.
13.   INFORME FINAL DEL BANCO (ICR)
13.1  Basado en el informe preparado por CFE, en el contenido de la presente ayuda
memoria, en los documentos de archivo del Banco y en entrevistas con el personal de
CFE y del Banco involucrados en el proyecto, el Banco preparara un informe final
(Implementation Completion Report o ICR). El ICR llevara como un anexo el resumen
7



- 38 -                        Appendix A
ejecutivo del informe de CFE. El ICR sera enviado a CFE y BANOBRAS para sus
comentarios antes de la emisi6n final.
14.  INFORMAC16N PARA EL GOBIERNO DE NORUIEGA
14.1  Para dar cumplimiento a las condiciones del convenio de donaci6n, CFE debera
enviar al Gobierno de Noruega, por intermedio de la Embajada en la ciudad de Mexico,
copias de todos los documentos principales relacionados con la ejecuci6n del proyecto,
incluyendo el Inforrne de Evaluaci6n Final. Por su parte, el Banco enviara a Noruega
copia del ayuda memoria y del ICR cuando haya sido completado.
Mexico DF, 26 de agosto de 1998
ucaLgas Nieto             L.E ueV   g
B co      dial
ANEXOS:
i.    LISTA DE PERSONAS ENTREVISTADAS
2.    LISTA DE INFORMES PRESENTADOS POR CFE
3.    COSTO Y FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PROYECTO
4.    DATOS PARA LA EVALUACION ECONOMICA
5.    PLAN PARA EL MONITOREO FUTURO DEL PROYECTO
6.    TABLAS DE CALCULO DE LA TASA INTERNA DE RETORNO
8



- 39 -                        Appendix A
ANEXO 1
LISTA DE PERSONAS ENTREVISTADAS
CFE
Ing. Enrique Vargas Nieto, Gerente Comercial
Lic. Rita Saucedo Flores, Jefa del Departamento de Analisis
Ing. Guillermo Ortega Rodriguez, Consultor de CFE
FILUMEX NUEVO LEON
Ing. Bonifacio Reyes Zapata, Gerente
Lic. Sylvia Rodriguez, Subgerente Comercial
C. P. Graciela Martinez Salinas, Subgerente de Administraci6n
FILUMEX JALISCO
Ing. Antonio Macias Padilla, Gerente
Ing. Francisco Rodriguez, Subgerente Comercial
C. P. Ana Aida Castafio Meneses, Subgerente de Administraci6n
BANOBRAS
C. P. Victor Herrej6n, Subgerencia Fiduciaria
Lic. Gabriel Penaloza, Subgerente de Proyectos
BANCO MUNDIAL
Enrique Vanegas, Task Manager
Luis H. Luzuriaga, Consultor del Banco
9



- 40 -                         Appendix A
ANEXO 2
LISTA DE INFORMES PRESENTADOS POR CFE
1.    ILUMEX. Informe de Evaluaci6n Final. Agosto de 1998
ILUMEX. Informe de Evaluaci6n Final. Agosto de 1998, Anexo Tecnico.
2.    FILUMEX NUEVO LEON. Informe de Resultados al 31 Diciembre 1997
FILUMEX NUEVO LEON. Tiempo de Uso y Factores de Coincidencia.
3.    FILUMEX JALISCO. Informe de Terminaci6n al 31 de Diciembre 1997
FILUMEX JALISCO. Tiempo de Uso y Factores de Coincidencia (2 volumenes)
FILUMEX JALISCO. Investigaci6n de Mercado.
10



- 41 -                                Appendix A
ANEXO 3
PROYECTO ILUMEX
COSTO Y FINANCIAMIENTO FINALES DEL PROYECTO
PERIODO 1995-1997
(En miles de dolares)
Costo                                Financiamiento
Concepto                            Previsto         Real       CFE       Norway        GEF Recuperacion   Total
Lamparas y Equipos
Lamparas                             18,703 1/    21,297       6,451        3,154     10,719         973   21,297
Vehiculos                               162           192        192           0           0           0       192
Equipos de medicion                      49            65         65           0           0           0        65
Equipos de computo                       65           140        140           0           0           0       140
Modulos de ventas                        32            36         36           0           0           0        36
Equipos de oficina                       19            51         51           0           0           0        51
Sub-total                            19,030        21,781       6,936       3,154     10,719         973   21,781
Servicios
Encuestas de mercadeo                   194            15         15           0           0           0        15
Promocion y publicidad                  290           316        316           0           0           0       316
Monitoreo y evaluacion                  163            39         39           0           0           0        39
Pruebas de laboratorio                   97            84         84           0           0           0        84
Auditoria                                65            39         39            0          0           0        39
Sub-total                               809           493        493           0           0           0       493
Ingenieria y Soporte de CFE
Ingenieria de CFE                       158           125        125           0           0           0       125
Coordinacion y evaluacion               238           188        188           0           0           0       188
Soporte de oficinas centrales            26            21         21           0           0           0        21
Soporte de oficinas locales           1,126           891        891           0           0           0       891
Sub-total                             1,548         1,226       1,226          0           0           0     1,226
Costos Administrativos
Honorarios de BANOBRAS                   23           177        177           0           0           0      177
Costos administrativos Fideicomisos   1,590         2,280      2,280           0           0           0    2,280
Sub-total                             1,613         2,458       2,458          0           0           0    2,458
Totales (1,865,133 LFCs)             23,000        25,957      11,112       3,154     10,719         973   25,957
Nota 1/: lncluye contingencias ($ 4,600,000)
Lamparas adquiridas                     Previsto       Real
Total instaladas:                     1,700,000   1,712,361
Total en bodegas al:                         0    152,772
Total lamparas adquiridas:            1,700.000   1,865,133
Precio medio por lampara (USS/lampara):    13.53       13.92
(Costo de adquisicion en US$Slampara):    11.00      11.42
(Costos indirectos en USSllampara):        2.53       2.50
(Costos indirectos en %):                23.0%      21.9%
Nota at: Ya instaladas en 1998
Costo total proyecto para 1,712,361 LFCs (1000 USS):  23,836,065



-42 -                                Appendix A
ANEXO 4
PROYECTO ILUMEX
DATOS PARA LA EVALUACION ECONOMICA
Concepto                                    Unidad            Previsto           Real al 12131/97
Lamparas adquiridas                         Unidad                 1,700,000               1,865,133
Lamparas instaladas                         Unidad                 1,700,000               1,712,361
Periodo de venta                             Anos                          2                    2.7
Tiempo de uso de las LFC                   Horas/dia                       4                   2.93
Factor de coincidencia                        %                           80                     30
Potencia ahorrada por LFC                    Watts                      50.4                   51.7
Vida utii de las LFC                         Horas                     8,760                  9,000
Vida util de los focos incandescentes        Horas                       750                    750
Factor de potencia de las LFC                 %                          0.9                   0.95
Eficacia de las LFC                       Lumen/watt                      47                     68
Costo directo de adquisicion por LFC         USS                       11.00                  11.42
Costo indirecto por LFC                      USS                        2.53                   2.50
Precio unitario total por LFC                US$                       13.53                  13.92
Descuento a otorgar                           %                           63                     49   1/
Costo marginal de capacidad              US$/kW-ano                    132.5                 125.95
Costo marginal de energia de punta         USc/kWh                       6.2                 2.8942
Costo combustoleo                           US$/M3                     90.3                    84.3
Costo gas natural                           US$/M3                     79.7                    87.7
Tarifa media consumidor residencial        USc/kWh                      6.65                   5.00
Perdidas de energia en ST                     %                         18.0                   18.6
Perdidas de capacidad en punta en BT          %                         22.0                   23.5
Potencia ahorrada por el proyecto             MW                       100.0                   33.7
Energia ahorrada por el proyecto           GWh/ano                       169                  114.3   21
Energia primaria ahorrada por el proyecto     TJ                                             10,753
Ahorro total de energia en la vida de LFC    GWh                       1,014                    978   3/
Ahorro total de combustoleo vida de LFC       M3                                            187,066
Ahorro total gas natural vida de LFC 6/      mM3                                             83,450
Ahorro anual de carbon                      Tonlano                   34,000
Reduccion anual de emision de C02           Ton/ano                  118,000                 89,234   4!
Reduccion total de emision de C02             Ton                    709,800                763,692   51
Reduccion total de emision de NOx             Ton                     205/yr                  2,098
Reduccion total de emision de SOx            Ton                     3,000/yr                10,920
Reduccion total de emision de CH4            Ton                                                 23
Reduccion total de emision de CO              Ton                                               209
Reduccion total de emision de HC             Ton                                                746
Reduccion total de emision de particulas     Ton                                              5.345
Reduccion total de consumo de agua            M3                                          3,523.245
Notas:
1/ Igual al valor de las 'ventas de LFCs. dividido por el costO total de compra de las LFCs (excluye IVA)
21 Energia ahorrada en el cuarto ano de funcionamiento del proyecto
3/ Previsto: 169 GWh por ano x 6 anos de vida de las larnparas = 1.014 GWh
(Vida util=8.760 horas dividido para 365dias x 4 horas dia (1.460 horas) = 6 anos)
41 Reduccion anual de emisiones en el cuarto ano.
S/ Valor Previsto en ei SAR: 1,014 GWh en a vida de ta lampara multiplicado por 0.78 kG/kWh ahorrado =763,692 ton
6/: Ahorro adiaonal al combustoleo



-43 -                          Appendix A
ANEXO 5
PLAN PARA EL MONITOREO FUTURO DEL PROYECTO
CFE considera necesario seguir monitoreando el programa ILUMEX mediante las
siguientes acciones:
a)    Estudios de persistencia en el uso de las LFC entre los usuarios que las compraron
bajo el programa.
b)    Estudios de mercado de las LFC en las sedes del proyecto para ver la sustituci6n
que se haya presentado al termino de la vida util de las lamparas que vendi6 el programa,
asi como la intluencia que haya ejercido el mismo sobre el mercado libre.
11



TABLE 2 (Page 1 of 2)
ILUMEX PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Price lbvels of August 1993)
Basic data for the economic analysis
Marginal coal of capacity (distribution levei) US$/kW/year  126.0
Marginal cosl of energy (diutribution level)    USclkVWh  2.89
Energy losses T&D                        %             18.6
Capadiy losses peak hours                %             23.5
Useful iHfe of CFLs                     Hours       9,000.0
Useful life of Incandescenl light bulbs  Hours        750.0
UUlizaion                             Hours/day         2.9
Peak coinddence factor                   %             30.0
Average total cost of CFL               USS            13.9
Cost oMincanscenl light bulb            USS             0.3
C02 avoided per kWh saved             kg/kcWh 1/      0.781
1,995     1,996      1,997      1,998      1,999      2,000      2,001      2,002      2,003     2,004       2,005     2,001       2,007      2,008    Total
NumberofCFLssoidperyear                  445.204    685.767    581.390         0          0          0          0          0          0          0         0           0          0          0   1,712.381
NumberofCFLssold(cumulabve)              445.204  1,130,971   1,712,361   1,712.361   1.712.361   1,712,361   1.712,361   1.712.361   1.712,361   1.712.361   1,712,361   1,712.361   1.712,361   1.712,361
NumberofCFLsinservice                    445,204  1.130,971   1,712,361   1,712,361   1,712,361  1,703,092  1.625,546  1.355,194    999,781    538.627    223,499    i08,800  83,870    37.793
CostofCFLsperyearUSS                   6.192.240  9,545,877  8,092.949         0          0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0  23.831.066
PaymentbydientsUSS(withlVA)            1,667,595  4.821,647  4,573,631   2.068,154    746,939                                                                                                   13,877,966
Payment clients USS (no VA)            1,450.083  4.192,737   3,977,070   1,798,395    649,512                                                                                                  12,067,797
Numberofincanscentbulbssaved             743,365  1,888,402  2,859,159  2,859,159  2,859,159  2,859,159   2.859,159  2.859,159  2,728,374  1,913.290    965.530    324,988    167,110   63,104  25,949,117
Costofincandescentbuilba savedUSS        252,744    642,057    972,114    972,114    972.114    972.114    972,114    972,114    927.647    650,519    328,280    110.496    56,817     21,455   8,822,700    -'
Capadty saved MW                             4.2       15 3       27.9      33.7       33.7       33.7       33.7       33.7       32.0       22 2       11.1        3.9        2.1        0.8                41
NetcapacitysavingMW                          3.2       11.7       21.3      25.8       25.8       25.8       25.8       25.8       24.5       170         8.5        3.0        1.6        0.6
NetenergysavingGWli                         145        52.2       94.8      114.3     114.3      114.3      114.3      1143       1086        758        37.9       13.1        7.1        2.7       978.2
Gross energy savingG GWh                    11.8       42.5      77.2       93.0       93.0       93.0       93.0       93.0       88.4       61.7       30.9       10.7        5.8        2.2       796.3
CostofcapaitysavedUSS(@LRMC)             404,677  1,474,182  2.688.214  3.247,054  3,247,054  3,247,054  3.247,054  3,247,054  3,063.256  2.139.009  1,069,504    375.772    202,339    /7,081   27,749,304
CostofenergysavedUSS(@LRMC)              419.050   1.508,580  2,739.720  3,303,270  3,303,270  3.303,270  3,303,270  3,303.270  3.138.540  2,190,620  1,095.310    378,590    205,190   78,030  28,269,980
Costof energy savedbyclients             853.377  3,723,157  8,597,986  9.091,108  9,091.108  9.091,108  9,091,108  9.091.108  8,641,477  6,026,844   3,012.247   1.043,555    561,140    217.287  78,132,610
Tota C02 emissions avoided, tons        11,320.2   40,752.5   74.010.4   89,234.0   89,234.0   89,234.0   89,234.0   89.234.0   64.7840    59.177.1   29,588.5   10.2272    5,543.0    2.107.9   763680.7
Note 1/ Average emission factor based on avoided energy as follows:
Guadailajaa, 100% avoided generation at Manzanillo power plant, 100% fuel oil generation (0.75 kg of CO21kWh)
Monterrey, avoided energy based on 48% fuel oil (0.75 kg/kWh) and 52% gas (0.55 kg C021kWh)
CD



TABLE 2 (Page 2 of 2)
ILUMEX PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Price levels of August 1998)
IRR CALCULATIONS
Concept                            1995       1996      1997     1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005     2006     2007     2008
POINT OF VIEW OF COUNTRY
Costs:
CostofCFLs                 -6,192,240  -9,545,877 -8,092,949     0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0
Benefits:
Incandescent bulbs saved      252,744    642,057   972.114   972,114   972,114   972,114    972,114   972,114   927,647   650,519   328,280  110.496   56.817   21,455
Cost of capacity saved        404.677   1,474.182 2.688,214 3,247,054 3,247,054  3,247,054  3,247,054  3.247,054 3,083,256  2,139,009  1.069,504  375,772  202,339   77,081
Costof energy saved           419,050  1,508,580 2,739.720 3.303,270 3,303,270  3,303,270  3,303,270  3,303,270 3,138.540  2,190,620  1,095,310  378,590  205,190   78,030
Benefits-Costs:               -5,115,769  -5.921,059 -1,692,901 7,522,438 7.522,438  7,522,438  7,522,438  7,522,438 7,149,443  4,980,147  2,493,095  864,858  464,346  176.567
Intemal Rate of Retum (IRR)       34.7%
POINT OF VIEW OF CFE
Costs:
CostofCFLs                  -6,192,240  -9,545,877 -8.092,949    0         0         0          0         0        0         0         0        0        0         0
Cost of energy not billed to users  -742,067  -3,237,528 -7,476.510 -7.905,312 -7,905,312 -7,905.312  -7,905,312 -7,905,312 -7,514,328 -5,240,734 -2.619,345  -907,439  -487,948  -188,946
Benefits:
Payment of CFLs sold        1,450,083   4.192,737 3,977,070 1.798,395   649,512      0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0
Costo/capacitysaved           404,677   1,474,182 2,688,214 3,247,054 3,247,054  3,247,054  3,247,054  3,247,054 3,083.256  2.139.009  1,069,504  375,772  202,339   77.081
Cost of energy saved          419,050   1,508,580 2,739,720 3.303,270 3,303,270  3,303.270  3,303.270 3.303,270 3,138,540  2,190,620  1,095,310  378,590  205.190   78,030
Benefits-Costs:                -4,660,497  -5.607.907 -6,164,455   443,407  -705,476 -1,354,988  -1,354,988 -1,354,988 -1,292,532  -911,105  -454,531  -153,077  -80,419  -33,835
Intemal Rate of Retum (tRR)   Negahive
POINT OF VIEW OF CFE (Considering DSM)
Costs:
Cost of CFLs                -6,192,240  -9,545,877 -8,092.949    0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0
Benefits:
Payment of CFLs sold        1,450,083  4,192.737 3,977,070 1,798,395   649,512       0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0
Costofcapacitysaved           404,677   1,474,182 2,688,214 3,247,054 3.247,054  3,247,054  3,247,054  3,247,054 3,083.256  2,139,009  1,069,504  375,772  202,339   77,081
Benefits-Costs:               -4,337.480  -3,878,959 -1,427,665 5,045,449 3,896,566  3,247,054  3,247,054  3,247,054 3.083.256  2,139.009  1.069.504  375,772  202.339   77,081
Intemal Rate of Retum (IRR)       22.8%
POINT OF VIEW OF PARTICIPANT
Costs:
Paymentof CFLs             -1,667.595  -4,821,647 -4,573,631 -2.068,154  -746,939    0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0
Benefits:
Incandescent bulbs saved     252,744    642.057   972,114   972,114   972,114   972,114    972,114   972,114  927.647   650,519   328,280  110,496   56,817   21,455
Cost of energy saved by users  853,377   3,723,157 8,597,986 9,091,108 9,091,108  9,091,108  9,091,108  9,091,108 8.641,477  6.026.844  3,012,247 1.043.555  561.140  217,287
Benefts-Costs:                 -561.474   -456,433 4,996,469 7.995,068 9.316,283 10,063,222 10,063,222 10,063,222 9,569,124  6,677,363  3,340,527 1.154,051  617,957  238,742            x
Intemal Rate of Retum (IRR)      248.2%



ANEXO6
________________  v i ______ ____                       LUJMEX PRIOJECZT         ___1  __i_________]______
___________       ____        _____        ECONOMIC   ANALYSIS           _ _  _1_    _ _                _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _1_   _  _      _ _  _   _  _  _
I   ___ ____   ____ _  ___ __  j(Pricetlevel%  of  AugustlS e 19_      _  _  _  __  _  _   _  __  __               _  _   I_ _  _   
______ _____ _____ _____ _____   ____ __   __ _____Basic  data  for  the  econom ic   analysis  1_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1_ _ _ _                         _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
A4arginal cost of energy (d,s K        __Vnleel  Uc/kWh 1 2.8942  ____    ____   ___________________11__________
nergSy tosses T&O D____                                  18.635  ____-                                                  ___       __     
: apacity  tosses  peak  hour                %      1     23475    ____      ____     ____        ___________                                                              ____
iselut life  of CFL.s                 I     ours           9000    _ _       _ _ _     _ _ _      _ _ _     _   _ _1_ _ _ _     _ _ _      _ _ _ _ 1
Jseflt  tile of tmandescent light bulbs    Hours            750__ _ _ _                          _ _ __     _ _ _                                                     -   _ __ _      _ _ _      _ _ _
:'eak c-oin-cderice factoi -    ~%                           30__________I___
6~veraqe  total cost of  C L                USs            13.92  _ _  _                _  _ _   _  _  _     _  _  _  _  _  _                   ~_                 _  _      _ _  _1 _   _ _
;est of incanscen  ih  ubI                  IS              0.3 4   _ _  j___..                                                I-                                           __
C02 saved perkWh savedkg/lWh 1/1~070                                                                         _         
_____    __________  { __  1995     ~~~~~     ~~1996.  1997  '1998  1999       2000,    2006 1    20021    2003          2004,    2005        20061     200f        00      Total-
Number_of CFLs sold pei,y!air         I     4,24        65,767  5~8-1,3904         0         0          0          I         0           f        0       -,o  1,712.361
Nu mbei of CFL sold i(cumnulative)          445,2041   ,3,7                            ,1,6    ,1,6 1,712,36117231                         1.7112. 2.361 L  61
rr6cr-o-f-                       -' -1,130-,97~1.7-J12,36-1 1.7-1-2,36-1   ___72,6   __7 2,1.61 _                              _117236172,61.7231711,31                          _
Nube  lCFLs in service                      445.204   1.3_7 ,1,3117231? ,1,6   ,1,361 1,712,3611l.634.03411.145.877   578,260   194,637' 100.0831   37.7931____
Cost ofcFLs per yearus US                    17J4 ,558- ,                           0 _ _  0             o{        0     '0:            010[0                                      01        0123.836.065 
Paymenl by clients US$ (with tIVA)         1,667,5951 4,821,647 4,573,631 2,068.15    746,939                                  I_________I120777
Number_of incanscent bulbs saved            743.3651 1 68422,859,159 2,859,159 2,859,159 2,859,159 2,859.15912,859,15912,728,374 11320 9530 324,988   16,1                               314 2,4,1
)Cojitof incandescent bullbs saved US$       252,74    64,05    972,114   972,114   972,114   972,114   972,1141 972.1141  927,6471 650.5191 328E,280   110,4961   56.81 71   21,455  8,822.699
Capacilysaved MW   ______           ~~~~       ~~~~~4.2  15.3  27.9  33.7      33.7      33.7       33.7      3.          20       2.         _11         3._.1                08  ___
Neicapacilysavrn9MW __________      ~~~32       11.7      21.4  -25.8          25.8      25.8       258       35.81      24.5       170        852.1.6?                        0.6 _____
Eneigy savedGVVh       _ ____]                   45j        52.2      9.8      41143      11A4.3  ___11-4.3"-               1.       06         7.                    31          .         .         7.
Cosl_ofca~ic4yyedS$___.____                 408,5621  1,7,6   ,9,4   ,4,8   ,268832688326803 6.88813.081.25812,144.0151_1,0671-i9-41  3429    0,5                                        00
Cost ofenetot"Yed US$420,778   1501913 2, 74 3, 444 3,0,4    308 ,046 3,308046 3,308,0461                         ID46P53.144.4 3512,193,031 1.O96.0  1379,7261   0,8, 7906___
Cogysaviede   b vdS                              i6         2.         71       93.0      930l3.o9 71_ ___30
negsaeby-clients GWh                                 42.5     ___ 77    __1      ___           93.0                           846.                             1.F TL,.1
Colt of eneLrg.!aved by clients US$        8653.3lVj.73.l3.157- S  8,-597,986 901,108 9 09-1 108- 9,-0-,18-,0 91.. ,10  9i.0 r1,1v8  ,v4,471,026on,r4  3,012,247 1,043,5551  56,4      2128____
Total C02_emissions av0iqded ton              11.3501    40,738    74,004    89,234    89,23.4    89,234    89.234,  89.34         84.821[5   5          957    10,243!   ____8          2.133    763,692
lIsle I I Average emission fac to based on avoided energy Ls follows: _____    __________________ ___                           ___
Guadalajara. 100% avoIded generation at Manzanillo power plan(, 100% fuel        (0gneaio).73 kg of C0/Wh___
f4onterre. avoidedener~y,,asd on 4%fuel oil 10.96 kgflkWh) and 52%  as(0 69 k C02/kWh                                                             -------_______  ____   ____



- 47 -                 Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
ILUMEX PROJECT
August 26, 1998
FEDERAL ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
(COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD - CFE)



- 48 -                               Appendix B
CONTENTS
Page
Executive Summary
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives        3
B.  Achievement of Objectives                     4
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project           5
D.  Project Sustainability                        5
E.   Bank Performance                             5
F.   Borrower Performnance                        6
G.  Assessment of Outcome                         6
H.  Future Operations                             7
1.   Key Lessons Learned                          7



- 49 -                              Appendix B
Executive Summary. This final evaluation report has been provided in order to assist the
World Bank in preparing its Implementation Completion Report (ICR). CFE was essentially
pleased with the Project outcome. The objectives were achieved, bringing Mexico many
benefits, and costs did not unduly exceed anticipated levels.
Over a period of 2.7 years, 1,712,361 high-efficiency fluorescent bulbs (FLs) were
installed, resulting in 114.3 GWh in annual energy savings and 33.7 MW in capacity saved.
From the environmental standpoint, 22,025 m3 of fuel oil and 9.6 million m3 of natural gas were
saved, and CO2 emissions were reduced by 88,600 tons.
A key benefit of the Project has been its catalytic impact in spurring the launch of similar,
and more ambitious, programs. Businesses, hotels, and civil and church organizations have
indicated their desire to participate. This enthusiasm was attributable largely to the high level of
satisfaction reported by participants, who have also indicated that they will eventually replace the
bulbs with similar ones.
FL manufacturers consider Mexico a potentially profitable market and, given the ILUMEX
Project's success, international analysts view it as a pilot for demand-side management (DSM)
programs. Furthermore, the participating institutions discharged their responsibilities
successfully, paying constant attention to the key role of their employees' performance in
achieving the stated objectives.
The evaluation process took three scenarios into account: Case 1 was based on the Project
as originally designed. Case 2 excluded costs attributable to lower billings, since the electricity
was sold to other users. Case 3 was based on the same assumptions as Case 2 and also excluded
the economic benefit to CFE of the energy savings realized.
The resulting internal rates of return were as follows: Case 1, negative; Case 2, 58%, and
Case 3, 22.8%.
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives.    The major objective of the ILUMEX Pilot
Project was to demonstrate that investments in energy-efficient domestic lighting can both
provide the capacity required to meet increased demand less expensively than building new
power plants and simultaneously reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
The target of the ILUMEX Project was to install 1.7 million compact fluorescent bulbs
(FLs) in place of the incandescent bulbs household energy consumers traditionally use. Th':
main results of the program were as follows:
(a)  Economic benefit: users were able to buy FLs at a cost-effective price;
(b) Social benefit: users were made aware of the economic and environmental benefits of
conserving energy;



- 50 -                             Appendix B
(c)  Benefit to the electric power sector: maximum load was reduced, enabling the sector to
postpone investments;
(d)  Social benefit: conservation of nonrenewable energy resources, i.e., fuel oil and natural
gas;
(e)  Social benefit: reduced environmental contanination as a result of the lower power
generation made possible by use of FLs.
B.  Achievement of Objectives. With respect to the major achievements of the ILUMEX
Project, the following results were achieved by the implementation units (the Jalisco and Nuevo
Leon FILUMEX Trust Funds) over the sales period from May 1995 to December 1997:
(a)  A total of 1,712,361 FLs - slightly more (0.7%) than originally planned - were sold. Table
1 at the end of this document provides data on the number of bulbs sold by level of user
consumption compared with the original figure.
(b)  Demand is expected to decrease by a maximum of 33.7 MW over the entire FL installation
period (1998-2002), or 66% less than originally anticipated, since the actual coincidence
factor recorded in field tests turned out to be lower than the figure estimated at appraisal
(82%). Table 2 and Figure 2 show the reduced demand for each year of the Project.
(c)  It was estimated that annual energy savings would amount to 114.3 GWh from 1998
through the end of 2002, when savings would begin declining as the useful life of the
original FLs ended. All the bulbs installed under the program will have reached that stage
by 2008. The corresponding annual data appear in Table 2 and Figure 2 [TN: or should
the reference be to Table 3 and Figure 3?]
Annual energy savings turned out to be lower than anticipated at appraisal, when daily
usage was estimated at four hours and capacity savings at 50.4 W. Field tests, however,
placed these figures at 2.93 hours/day and 51.69 W.
(d)  Total estimated savings amounted to 978 GWh. Table 4 and Figure 4 indicate the
cumulative annual data for these savings.
(e)  Total fuel oil consumption fell by 187,070 m3, as shown in Table 5. The total decrease in
natural gas consumption was 83.5 billion m3 (also shown in Table 5). Emissions of
contaminants also declined.
The potential for environmental benefits prompted CFE to encourage the substitution of
natural gas for diesel and fuel oil in major cities; however, emissions of some contaminants did
not decrease as much as anticipated.
With regard to user participation, sales of FLs under the Project's initial distribution plan
were expected to be highest among low-consumption or intermediate-consumption users, since



- 51 -                              Appendix B
one objective was to reduce subsidized sales to boost the economic benefit to the electric power
sector. However, sales to low-consumption users turned out not to be as strong as expected.
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.  The major factors affecting this high-efficiency
lighting pilot project were as follows:
(I)  Negative Impact on CFE's Image: Some suppliers did not deliver the bulbs within the
expected time frame, thereby temporarily halting sales. Some FLs were of poor quality,
resulting in considerable failures and replacements. The price of the bulbs increased, primarily
as a result of the 1995 devaluation. Users were dissatisfied because they were not permnitted to
buy more than six FLs. This number was subsequently increased to ten.
(II) Negative Impact on Project operations and CFE's benefit-cost ratio: The economic
situation was such that fewer FLs than anticipated were sold to low-consumption users. The
devaluation of the Mexican peso increased the purchase price of the FLs. It was difficult initially
to coordinate the FILUMEX information system with CFE's internal marketing unit.
Measurement of the Project's environmental impact proved difficult; this is an ongoing problem,
primarily because emissions are not recorded at CFE's plants.
D. Project Sustainability. There is no guarantee that domestic energy users will continue to
buy FLs, although they did seem to be very satisfied with this energy conservation method.
Field studies have shown that the bulbs have remained in use since installation, evidence of the
project's potential sustainability.
The market price of FLs has not decreased even though more bulbs are available now.
Accordingly, the replacement rate - once currently installed bulbs have reached the end of useful
life - is uncertain.
FIDE is developing similar projects to install over six million high-efficiency bulbs in
various parts of Mexico.
E.  Bank Performance.  Bank personnel provided appropriate and timely advice to
the parties concerned with project administration - CFE, BANOBRAS, and the Trust Funds
(Fideicomisos) - during the project planning stage and as partial changes were introduced.
With respect to project financing, disbursements were made in a timely and
expeditious manner. One minor difficulty, which had been anticipated, arose shortly before
funds ran out, when not all of the invoices that were due could be paid. CFE had to pay the
entire amount, thereby altering the proportion of matching payments under the grant.
This may be attributed to the devaluation of the peso against the dollar and to the price
increase. As expected, the FLs ordered during the second bidding process were more expensive



- 52 -                              Appendix B
than the initial batch, and the funds available for purchasing the agreed target of 1.7 million FLs
were insufficient.
F.  Borrower Performance. CFE took the following important steps in order to promote the
success of the ILUMEX Project as fully as possible:
CFE established a Central Project Committee, a Project Coordination Unit, the Jalisco and
Nuevo Le6n Trust Funds, and a technical committee for each Trust Fund.
The utility arranged for the Jalisco and Nuevo Le6n Distribution Units to support the respective
trusts.
It established the procedures governing the CFE-BANOBRAS-Trust Funds resource stream with
respect to capital contributions and collection of revenue ("reflows").
CFE equipped its marketing unit (SICOM) to handle sales, invoicing, and trust revenue
collection operations.
CFE kept the attention of its national branch offices focused on the Project. Personnel from its
Accounting and Finance Departments, PAESE, and the Distribution and Marketing Departments
supervised and evaluated the performance of the Trust Funds (implementation units).
One area where improvements may be needed is the international competitive bidding
process. Because no single Mexican entity is in charge of the process, and bids require World
Bank approval, the process took longer than was desirable.
G.  Assessment of Outcome.   Assessment of the outcome of the energy conservation
program shows that households benefited considerably, the electric power sector benefited from
the technical standpoint, and Mexico as a whole reaped definite economic and environmental
benefits.
Broadly speaking, the program's initial objectives were achieved. CFE benefited in terms
of its image, as well as from the technical and environmental standpoint, although efforts to
attract low-consumption users were not as successful as had been expected.
Mexico's electric power sector continued its policy of adjusting household tariffs on a
monthly basis and, as indicated in the appraisal report, CFE succeeded in mitigating the negative
impact of this policy on its image, since program participants appreciated the fact that they were
able to buy FLs at low cost and on deferred terms. This was borne out in participant surveys.
Additional user groups showed an interest in this program and similar ones, demonstrating
that ILUMEX had served as an appropriate model for energy conservation in Mexico.



-53 -                                Appendix B
Table 6, which illustrates Case 1, presents the outcome for the main project parameters.
However, the benefit-cost ratio was negative because so many high-consumption users
participated.
In the evaluation of the Project from the altemative DSM perspective adopted for Case 3,
the costs listed do not include CFE's reduced income attributable to lower billable sales, nor do
the benefits reported reflect savings from energy not generated (see Table 7).
This was the case because sales to low-consumption users in Jalisco and Nuevo Le6n were
not as strong as anticipated; it had been assumed previously that electricity would no longer be
sold at subsidized rates, a situation which turned out not to apply to this Project.
The results of a field survey on hours of use that measured consumption in situ provided an
indication of bulb life and showed the coincidence factor for both peak demand periods and over
a 24-hour period. Measurements were made during the summer as well as other seasons.
H.  Future Operations.  The Trust Funds can continue operating with financing from
"reflows," as they are doing in 1998. However, FIDE has already begun to implement projects
with similar objectives elsewhere in Mexico and, using the experience of the ILUMEX Project as
a guide, the intention is to keep the structure of trust funds as small as possible beginning in
1999.
CFE believes that its financial contributions to FIDE and its assistance in terms of
administrative support and experience are sufficient to allow the planned energy conservation
policy to be sustained successfully.
In keeping with the original project design, the utility will, however, continue to do such
things as replace defective bulbs, collect payments, record hours of use, and conduct
sustainability surveys.
I.   Key Lessons Learned.      The key lessons learned during the implementation of this
Project are set out below.
CFE gained valuable experience which is applicable to similar projects. It established
internal management units as well as implementation units (IU), or trust funds; it formulated
technical specifications and laboratory tests, sold merchandise, and collected "reflows." What is
more, the utility simultaneously conducted technical and financial reviews of the Project from
various perspectives. Quality and timely delivery were its watchwords as it negotiated with
suppliers regarding price, delivery, technical specifications, laboratory tests, and the performance
of purchased FLs.
The most impressive result was how rapidly the conservation measure gained acceptance, a
factor that almost led to a shortage of FLs. However, this occurred at the same time that CFE's



- 54 -                             Appendix B
local reputation was improving, since program participants were able to buy inexpensive
compact FLs and pay for them over time.
The Project also paved the way for the implementation of similar projects through FIDE,
thereby providing further opportunities to develop additional DSM methods.
Table 1
Distribution of FLs sold by level of user consumption (%)
Basic      Intermediate      High          Total
1995             5.7           24.9           69.4          100
1996             8.5           35.5            56           100
1997             13.8          31.2            55           100
Total            9.6           31.3           59.2           100
Planned distribution of FLs (%)
Main Office          Basic      Intermediate       High        Total
Jalisco            34.3           49.7           1 6          100
Nuevo Lon            28.7           53.2           18.1         100



- 55 -         Appendix B
"INFORME DE TERMINACION
(ICR)
DEL PROYECTO ILUMEX99
26 de Agosto de 1998
COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD



- 56 -                         Appendix B
CONTENIDO
Pagina
Resumen Ejecutivo                               2
A. Estado y evaluaci6n de objetivos                 3
B. Logro de objetivos                               3
C. Factores principales que afectaron el proyecto   4
D. Persistencia del proyecto                        5
E. Desempefio del Banco                             5
F. Desempefio del prestatario                   6
G. Evaluacion de resultados                         7
H. Operaciones futuras                          8
I. Experiencias                                     8



- 57 -                       Appendix B
Resumen Ejecutivo. Este Informe de Evaluacion Final servira al Banco
Mundial para la elaboracion del Reporte de Implementacion Completa (ICR).
Centralmente, se desea afirmar la satisfaccion de CFE con los resultados de
este proyecto. Se consideran cubiertos los objetivos con un buen grado de
beneficios para la nacion y sin que se haya excedido su costo de manera
inesperada.
Se instalaron 1 712 361 LFC en un plazo de 2.7 afios, las que permitiran un
ahorro de energia de 114.3 GWh por afio, con una capacidad evitada de 33.7
MW. Desde el punto de vista ambiental, se ahorran por afio 22,025 metros
cu'bicos de combust6leo y 9.6 millones de metros cuibicos de gas natural, con
una reduccion de 88,600 toneladas en las emisiones de CO2.
Entre los mejores resultados del proyecto, destaca la influencia que ha tenido
para el inicio de programas similares de aun mayor envergadura.
Comerciantes y hoteleros, asi como organizaciones civiles y eclesia'sticas,
manifestaron su deseo de participar. A ello, ha contribuido el alto grado de
satisfaccion reportado por los usuarios domesticos participantes, quienes
tambien manifiestan disposicion a reponer sus lamparas por otras similares al
termino de su vida uitil.
Los fabricantes de LFC ven al pais como un mercado real y potencial, los
analistas internacionales reconocen el exito de ILUMEX como proyecto piloto
en el marco de los programas de DSM, y las instituciones participantes
cumplieron adecuadamente sus funciones, vigilantes siempre del buen
desempeiio de sus funcionarios para el logro de los objetivos marcados.
El proceso de evaluacion incluyo tres enfoques: el primero, Caso 1, adoptado
desde el disefio del proyecto; un Caso 2, que considera que no se tienen costos
por la disminucion de la facturacion de CFE pues la energia se vende a otros
usuarios; y un Caso 3 que implica la misma consideracion del Caso 2 pero
que, adicionalmente, no considera el beneficio econ6mico del ahorro de
energia a nivel de generacion para CFE.
Los resultados obtenidos de la tasa interna de retorno ( IRR por sus siglas en
ingles ) para cada caso son: Caso 1: Negativo, Caso 2 : 58.0%, y Caso 3:
22.8 %
A. Estado y evaluaci6n de objetivos. El principal objetivo del Proyecto
ILUMEX, que es un proyecto piloto, es demostrar que las inversiones



- 58 -                        Appendix B
realizadas en medidas de uso eficiente de iluminaci6n domestica, permiten
proveer la capacidad necesaria para la expansi6n de la demanda a costos
inferiores a los de la construccion de nuevas centrales, al mismo tiempo que
reducen la emision de gases con efecto invernadero.
La meta programada de ILUMEX es la instalaci6n de 1.7 millones de lamparas
fluorescentes compactas (LFC) sustituyendo los focos incandescentes tradicionales
en uso actual por los usuarios domesticos de la energia el6ctrica. Los principales
resultados de este programa, son:
a) Beneficio econ6mico para el usuario al adquirir las LFC a un precio que
asegura su rentabilidad econ6mica.
b) Beneficio social al hacer consciente al usuario de los beneficios economicos
y ambientales del ahorro de energia.
c) Beneficio para el sector el6ctrico al posponer inversiones por la reducci6n de
la demanda maxima del sistema.
d) Beneficio social al conservar recursos energeticos no renovables, como son
ei combust6leo y el gas natural.
e) Beneficio social al reducirse la emisi6n de contaminantes al medio ambiente,
ya que propicia reducciones en la generacion electrica por el uso de las LFC.
B. Logro de objetivos. Con relacion a los principales logros de ILUMEX, las
acciones realizadas por las Unidades de Implementacion (UI, Fideicomisos
FILUMEX Jalisco y FILUMEX Nuevo Le6n) durante el periodo de ventas -de
Mayo de 1995 a diciembre de 1997- tenemos:
a) Se vendieron un total de 1'712,361 LFC, cantidad ligeramente mayor (0.7%)
a la programada. La Tabla 1, al final de este documento, presenta los datos
de lamparas vendidas por afno para cada nivel de consumo de los usuarios, en
comparaci6n con lo planeado.
b) La maxima reducci6n de la demanda se estima en 33.7 MW en el periodo de
total instalaci6n de las LFC (1998-2002), 66% menos de lo programado, ya
que el factor de coincidencia real, obtenido de pruebas de campo, resulto
menor a lo estimado en el estudio defactibilidad (0.82). En la Tabla y Figura
2 se presentan las reducciones en demanda en cada ario del proyecto.
c) Se calcuI6 un ahorro anual de 114.3 GWh del afno 1998 al final del 2002,
cuando se iniciara la reducci6n del ahorro por terminarse la vida util de las



- 59 -                             Appendix B
primeras LFC vendidas; en el anio 2008 se agota la vida uitil del total de
lamparas instaladas bajo el programa. Los datos anuales correspondientes se
presentan en la Tabla y Figura 2.
La cifra de ahorro de energia anual es inferior a la estimada en el estudio de
factibilidad, donde se suponia un uso diario de 4 horas y una capacidad
ahorrada de 50.4 watts. Las pruebas de campo dieron las cifras de 2.93
horas/dia y 51.69 watts.
d) El ahorro total estimado es de 978 GWh. La Tabla y Figura 4 presenta los
datos anuales acumulados de este ahorro de energia.
e)  La reducci6n total en el consumo de combust6leo es de 187.07 miles de
metros cuibicos, como se presenta en la Tabla 5. La reducci6n total en el
consumo de gas natural es de 83.5 miles de millones de metros cuibicos. (en
la misma Tabla). Tambien, se puede ver la reduccion en la emisi6n de
contaminantes.
Dado que la institucion promovi6 la sustituci6n de diesel y de combust6leo por gas
natural en las grandes ciudades, pues se involucr6 en cambios positivos hacia el
medio ambiente, la reducci6n de algunos contaminantes es menor a la planeada.
Con relaci6n a la participaci6n de los usuarios, la distribuci6n planeada del proyecto proponia
que las ventas de LFC tendrian una alta participaci6n de usuarios de consumo bajo e intermedio,
ya que un objetivo era reducir las ventas subsidiadas para mayor beneficio econ6mico del sector
electrico, sin embargo, las ventas se distribuyeron con bastante menor participaci6n de usuarios
de bajo consumo.
C. Factores principales que afectaron el proyecto. Los principales factores que
afectaron el proyecto piloto de iluminacion eficiente, son:
I)    Con efecto negativo sobre la imagen de CFE: Incumplimiento de algunos proveedores
en los plazos de entrega previamente convenidos, lo que provoc6 paros temporales en la
actividad de venta. Mala calidad de algunas LFC, dando como resultado altos indices de falla y
reposici6n. Se ajustaron al alza los precios de venta de las lanparas, sobre todo por la
devaluaci6n de 1995. Se puso un limite mrximo de 6 LFC por usuario, lo que motiv6
insatisfacci6n, por lo que hubo de aumentarse posteriormente a 10.
II) Con efecto negativo sobre la operacion del proyecto y la relacion B/C
para CFE: La situacion econ6mica motivo que las LFC no pudieran venderse
entre los pequefios usuarios tan ampliamente como se habia planeado. La



- 60 -                           Appendix B
devaluacion del peso mexicano increment6 los precios de compra de las LFC.
Desajustes en la operacion inicial entre el sistema de informacion de FILUMEX y
el SICOM de CFE. La evaluacion del impacto ecologico presento dificultades que
continuian, principalmente debido a la falta de medici6n de emisiones en las plantas
de CFE.
D. Persistencia del proyecto. La persistencia de los usuarios domesticos de
energia electrica en la compra de LFC no esta garantizada, si bien se detect6 un
buen grado de aceptaci6n de la medida de ahorro. En estudios de campo se detecto
el uso continuo, desde la instalacion, de las LFC, es decir, hasta ahora se persiste
en su uso.
Los precios en el mercado abierto no han bajado, auin cuando ha aumentado la
disponibilidad de LFC en el mismo; esto no permite asegurar el grado de remplazo
que se presentara al agotarse la vida de las Iamparas ya instaladas.
Proyectos similares estan siendo desarrollados por el FIDE para instalar mas de
seis millones de lamparas ahorradoras en diversos lugares del pais.
E. Desempefno del Banco. Desde la planeacion del proyecto y durante las
revisiones parciales, el personal del Banco prest6 orientacion adecuada y
oportuna a las partes involucradas en la administracion del proyecto, CFE,
BANOBRAS y los Fideicomisos.
En lo referente a la operaci6n financiera, las ministraciones del proyecto se realizaron de manera
oportuna y expedita. Aunque hubo un incidente menor, ya previsto, poco antes de que se
agotaran los fondos, pues se presentaron facturas a cobro y no se alcanzaban a cubrir en su
totalidad. CFE hubo de aportar el pago total, que ya no mantenia la proporcionalidad de pagos
en contrapartida de la donaci6n.
El alza en el tipo de cambio peso/d6lar y el incremento en precios, motivaron esa
situacion; como estaba previsto, los pedidos de la segunda licitaci6n resultaron
mas caros que los previos y ya no alcanzaban los fondos para adquirir 1.7 millones
de LFC, como era el objetivo comprometido.



-61-                          Appendix B
F. Desempefio del prestatario. Para la realizacion, de la mejor manera posible,
de las actividades que se tenian que llevar a cabo para lograr el objetivo del
proyecto ILUMEX, la CFE realizo las principales acciones siguientes:
Creacion del Comite Central del Proyecto, la Unidad Coordinadora del
Proyecto, Constituci6n formal de los Fideicomisos Jalisco y Nuevo Leon,
Creacion del Comite Tecnico de cada uno de los Fideicomisos.
El apoyo de las Divisiones de Distribucion Jalisco y Nuevo Leon para cada
uno de los Fideicomisos correspondientes.
Definicion de procedimientos para regular el flujo de recursos CFE-
BANOBRAS-Fideicomisos en el caso de las aportaciones patrimoniales y de la
cobranza (recuperacion de cartera).
Adecuacion, por parte de CFE, de su Sistema Comercial (SICOM) para
procesar las operaciones de venta, facturacion y cobranza de los fideicomisos.
En oficinas nacionales, CFE mantuvo permanentemente la atencion sobre el
proyecto. Personas de las Gerencias de Contabilidad y Finanzas, del PAESE,
de la Gerencia de Distribucion, y de esta Gerencia Comercial, estuvieron
supervisando y evaluando el desempefio de los fideicomisos (Unidades de
Implementacion).
Una circunstancia a mejorar para el caso necesario, es lo relacionado con el
proceso de licitaci6n internacional, que por no depender de una sola instituci6n
nacional, y al requerir la aprobaci6n del Banco Mundial, se llev6 mas tiempo del
conveniente.
G. Evaluacion de resultados. La evaluacion de los resultados del programa de
ahorro indica que son muy favorables para los clientes domesticos, y que para
el sector electrico son tecnicamente ventajosos, mientras que para la nacion
son positivos en lo economico y lo ambiental.
Atendiendo a los objetivos iniciales del programa, se puede afirmar que se
alcanzaron en terminos generales. Esto vale tanto en terminos de imagen de la
instituci6n como en terminos tecnicos y ambientales, si bien no se alcanz6 a
penetrar de manera amplia en el sector de usuarios pequenos.
El sector electrico mexicano ha mantenido la politica de ajustar mensualmente las
tarifas domesticas, y tal como se plante6 en el estudio defactibilidad, se ha paliado
el efecto negativo de esa politica sobre la imagen de CFE, ya que la clientela



- 62 -                             Appendix B
participante ha reconocido el esfuerzo que se manifiesta al vender a precios bajos,
y en plazos, las LFC. Las encuestas de participantes lo han mostrado asi.
Otros sectores de usuarios se han interesado en el programa y en otros similares,
por lo que ILUMEX ha cumplido sirviendo como ejemplo en el marco cultural del
ahorro de energia.
La Tabla 6, correspondiente al enfoque del Caso 1, presenta los resultados de los
principales parametros para el proyecto, aunque la relaci6n beneficio/costo del
sector es deficiente por la mas amplia participaci6n de usuarios de alto consumo.
Evaluando el programa con un enfoque alternativo de DSM, correspondiente al
enfoque del Caso 3, no se incluyeron entre los costos las reducciones de ingresos
de CFE debidas a disminuci6n en las ventas para facturaci6n, ni se incluyeron
entre los beneficios los ahorros por energia evitada en la generacion, como se
presenta en la Tabla 7.
Se hizo asi por no haberse vendido las LFC entre los sectores de bajo consumo con la
participaci6n planeada para Jalisco y Nuevo Le6n; la argumentaci6n previa habia sido que se
dejaria de vender energia subsidiada, lo que no ocurre en el programa.
Adicionalmente, se tienen los resultados de un estudio de tiempo de uso que se hizo en campo
con mediciones in situ, lo que permiti6 establecer el horizonte de vida de las larnparas, asi como
obtener el factor de coincidencia no s6lo para la demanda en punta, sino para las 24 horas del
dia; las mediciones fueron realizadas tanto para la estaci6n de verano como para la de fuera de
verano.
H. Operaciones futuras. Con los recursos obtenidos de la recuperacion de
cartera, es posible mantener la operaci6n de los Fideicomisos, tal y como se
esta' haciendo en 1998; sin embargo, el FIDE se encarga ya de realizar
proyectos con los mismos objetivos en otras aireas del pais, para lo que esta'
aprovechando la experiencia de ILUMEX, por lo que se tiene planeado
reducir al minimo la estructura de los fideicomisos a partir de 1999.
CFE considera que sus aportaciones econ6micas al FIDE y los apoyos que le
brinda en terminos de estructura organizativa y experiencia, son suficientes para
mantener en un buen nivel la politica de ahorro de energia que se ha trazado.



- 63 -                         Appendix B
Sin embargo, y de acuerdo con lo planeado al diseflo del programa, se mantendran actividades
como: reposici6n de lamparas falladas, cobranza, mediciones de tiempo de uso y encuestas de
persistencia.
I. Experiencias. Las principales experiencias obtenidas durante el desarrollo
de este proyecto, son:
La CFE obtuvo importantes experiencias validas para esta clase de proyectos.
Desde la organizacion de instancias de direccion intemas hasta la organizacion de
las Unidades de Implementaci6n (UI) o fideicomisos; desde el establecimiento de
las especificaciones tecnicas y de las pruebas de laboratorio, hasta la venta de los
productos y la recuperaci6n de cartera. No puede dejarse de lado lo relacionado
con la evaluacion tecnica y economica del proyecto, la cual se ha hecho sobre
diversos enfoques simultaneamente.
En las negociaciones con los fabricantes sobre precios, abastecimiento,
especificaciones tecnicas, pruebas de laboratorio y desempenio de las LFC
adquiridas, se busco garantizar la calidad y oportunidad de las adquisiciones.
La mejor experiencia ha sido la aceptacion rapida de la medida de ahorro, lo cual
puso en peligro de desabasto al programa, aunque ello ocurrio al mismo tiempo
que se mejoraba la imagen local de CFE, pues permiti6, mediante este programa,
facilidades para que los usuarios adquiriesen las LFC a bajo precio y con
facilidades de pago.
Se abri6 la posibilidad de implantar programas similares a traves del FIDE,
ampliando la capacidad de desarrollar otras medidas de DSM.
Tabla 1
Distribuci6n de LFC vendidas por Nivel de Usuario (%)
Basico   Intermedio   Excedente       Total
1995          5.7        24.9         69.4         100.0
1996          8.5        35.5         56.0        100.0
1997         13.8        31.2         55.0        100.0
Total         9.6   1   31.3          59.2         100.0
Distribuci6n Planeada de las LFC (%)
Sede        Basico   Intermedio   Excedente        Total
Jalisco       34.3        49.7         16.0         100.0
Nuevo Le6n       28.7       53.2         18.1         100.0






- 65 -                       Appendix C
APPENDIX C
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING PROJECT (ILUMEX)
Project Cost/Benefit Analysis
I.  Introduction
1.   The ILUMEX project was financed by CFE and with grants from the Global
Environmental Trust Fund and the Kingdom of Norway. It was completed in December
31, 1997. A total of 1,712,361 compact fluorescent lamps (FLs) (vs. 1,700,000 estimated
at appraisal) were installed in houses and businesses in Guadalajara and Monterrey. The
economic analysis presented in this report is based on information provided by CFE and
compares these results with those estimated at appraisal and summarized in LAC's
Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director (MRD) dated March 8, 1994 (Report
No. 12448-ME).
1I.  Main Parameters for Economic Analysis
2.   The main parameters of the ILUMEX project as appraised and as developed are
shown in Table 1 and are commented below. Data was collected from project participants
in both cities. These parameters include:
a. The number of FLs installed in the official period of project execution (1995-
1997) is slightly higher than estimated. The unit cost per FL was US$ 13.92 (vs.
US$ 13.53), of which 18% or US$ 2.50 is overhead cost (vs. 18.7%). This small
variation in the total unit cost of FLs had no appreciable effect in the results of the
project.
b. The rebate or discount given by CFE was on average 49%. Participants paid on
average US$ 7.05 per FL, plus a sales tax or IVA of 14%.
c. Based on surveys of participants undertaken in both cities, the average use time
for each FL was 2.48 hours. This is lower than the 4 hours estimated at appraisal.
However, this variation reduces only slightly the amount of energy saved by the
project, from 1,014 GWh for the life of the FLs estimated at appraisal to 977
GWh.



- 66 -                        Appendix C
d. The "coincidence factor" of use of FLs was only 30% vs. 80% estimated at
appraisal. This factor is equal to the number of FLs in use at peak hours, vs. de
total number of FLs installed. This variation reduces the amount of capacity
saved by the project from 100 MW estimated at appraisal to 33.7 MW.
e. Laboratory test results and the results of three years of project implementation
demonstrate that the average life of the FLs is about 9,000 hours (vs. 8,760 hours
estimated at appraisal).
f. The energy savings for the project was calculated by CFE for the estimated
number of FLs installed and in service in each year. For the period 1995 to 1997,
the FLs in service was equal to the FLs sold to participants. For later years, CFE
projected the number of FLs in service in accordance with the use time of each
type of participant and the expected life of FLs (9,000 hours).
g. The life of a typical incandescent bulb replaced by FLs is 750 hours and the unit
cost is US$ 0.34 (vs. US$ 0.32).
III. Economic Benefits of the Project
3.   The economic benefits of the project as described in the MRD are: (i) project
participants will enjoy a comparable or higher lighting level at reduced cost; and (ii) the
society at large and CFE will be able to postpone new energy investments because the
project will reduce energy demand and, thereby, save fuel. Based on the information
collected by CFE and the expected future performance of FLs, those benefits were
indeed perceived by all participants as explained below.
4.   The economic benefits were estimated based on project data and using the same
methodology as in the MRD. All costs are expressed in constant terms as of August 1998.
All taxes have been excluded, except for the analysis from the perspective of the
participant as is explained below. Following the same methodology described in the
MRD, the costs and benefits are calculated assuming that the FLs will not be replaced at
the end of their useful life. If all or a percentage of the F138 are replaced as is expected,
the economic benefits will be higher than shown below.
Economic Analysis from the Perspective of thte Nation
5.   The cost to the nation is the annual cost of the FLs needed to implement the project
(total cost was US$ 23.8 million vs. US$ 23.0 million estimated in the MRD).
6.   The benefits from the perspective of the nation are three:
a. The value of the capacity postponed by the installation of the FLs (33.7 MW
actual vs. 100 MW estimated at appraisal), valued at the Long Run Marginal Cost
(LRMC) (US$ 126 vs. US$ 132.5);



67 -                        Appendix C
b. The yearly value of the energy not generated because of the savings of the FLs
(978 GWh total vs. 1,014 GWh) also valued at LRMC (US cent 2.9 vs. US cent
6.2); and
c. The value of the incandescent light bulbs not installed.
7.   The internal rate of return (IRR) was calculated using data reported by CFE, which
is based on project implementation infonnation and market surveys. (See final project
evaluation report prepared by CFE :"ILUMEX. Infonne de Evaluaci6n Final. Agosto de
1998"). Table 2 shows the assumptions for the calculation and the results obtained. The
IRR for the project as executed and the value forecast at appraisal are:
IRR Forecast at Appraisal      IRR for Project as Executed
56% (minimum)                     35%
8.   While the IRR for the project as executed is high, it did not reach the level
estimated at appraisal because capacity postponed by the project is only 33.7 MW instead
of 100 MW as expected. The main reason for the lower capacity savings is related to the
coincidence factor which was estimated at appraisal to be 80% but who's real value
during implementation was 30%. At appraisal, little information was available on how
households and businesses would use the new lighting. This was one of the main lessons
learned through the ILUMEX project.
Economic Analysis from the Perspective of CFE
9.   The costs to CFE are:
a.   The total yearly cost of FLs paid by CFE to execute the project, or, as
described in the MRD. The cost to CFE is the rebate absorbed by CFE for the sale of FLs
(cost of FLs minus the repayments by participants).
b.   CFE's forgone income, as the energy saved by FLs is not consumed by
participants, therefore reducing CFE's income.
10. The benefits for CFE are
a. The yearly repayment by participants of FLs sold on terms; and
b. The cost of the capacity and energy saved by the project (same as for the nation)
12. The IRR calculations are:



- 68 -                        Appendix C
IRR Forecast at Appraisal    IRR for Project as Executed
32% (minimum)                   Negative
13. The reasons for this result are: (i) the benefits for saved capacity were low, for the
same reason explained above for the nation; and (ii) the cost of the energy saved by the
project had a lower value for CFE, because the long run marginal cost of energy or
LRMC has today a lower value than in 1994 when the project was appraised. While in
1994, the LRMC was US $ .062 per kWh, in 1998 the value is only US $ .033 per kWh.
This reduction in the LRMC is due to : (a) much lower prices for fuel oil today than in
1994; and, (b) the availability of lower cost natural gas which was not available for power
generation in 1994.
14. The CFE also undertook the IRR calculation from the Demand Side Management
perspective. It assumes that the energy saved by the participants does not cause a loss to
CFE, but rather is billed to other higher use customers in the same area, as demand for
power is high and CFE's reserves are relatively low. Under this scenario, the IRR for
CFE would be 23%.
Economic Analysis from the Perspective of the Participant.
15.  The cost to the participants is:
a.  the price paid for the FLs including sales taxes or IVA, as this was a real
payment incurred by the participant when purchasing the FLs.
16.  The benefits for the participant are:
a.   The value of the incandescent light bulbs not purchased because of the
replacement with FLs; and
b. The energy saved by the FLs, which reduces the amount of the monthly
electricity bill to the participants. The average tariff charged by CFE at
distribution level today is lower than in 1994 (US cent 5.0 per kWh vs. 6.65).
The present structure of CFE's residential tariffs has changed, penalizing higher
consumption of energy by higher rates. The first block of consumption (up to
75 kWh per month) pay a "basic" tariff of US cent 4.0 per kWh; the second
block or "intermediate" pay US cent 4.6 for the excess over 76 kWh up to 200
kWh; and the third block or "excedent" pay US cent 14.2 per kWh for energy
over 201 kWh. Although the saved energy by the participants is close to the
estimate of the appraisal, its value is higher because the large participation of
consumers of the third block. As a consequence, the energy saved was valued at
a higher cost, resulting in a higher amount than at appraisal.



- 69 -                       Appendix C
17. The resulting IRR for the participants was much higher than estimated, because the
higher monthly savings on the electricity bill achieved by the participants. The results
are:
IRR Forecast at Appraisal    IRR for Project as Executed
151% (minimum)                    248%
18. In order to determine project benefits for all categories project participants, CFE
made a detailed analysis in Guadalajara and Monterrey of the three blocks of
consumption. All participants received benefits, however, as expected, the participants of
the "basic" block had lower IRR than the ones of the higher blocks, because the higher
kWh saved by the larger number of FLs purchased by these participants.
Environmental Benefits.
19. The amount of carbon dioxide emissions (C02) avoided as a result of the
ILUMEX project is now estimated at 763,681 tons for the life of the FLs, as compared to
709,800 estimated at appraisal. The updated value based on energy saved was calculated
by CFE based on the regional dispatch of the power plants. The annual energy saved is:
(i) 50% to the Manzanillo thermal plant (Guadalajara) which uses fuel oil
("combustoleo") and has a thermal efficiency of 38%; and (ii) 50% to the Monterrey
thermal plant which uses 48% of fuel oil and 52% of natural gas and has an average
thermal efficiency of 29%. The resulting average index for the project is 0.78 kg
C02/kWh.
20. At present still there is no international consensus on the economic benefits of
reducing C02 emissions. For the purpose of comparing the benefits with those estimated
at appraisal, the same indices used in the MRD were used to value the benefits of the
project. These indices were estimated by Data Research Inc (DRI) (see MRD, Annex 4).
The updated results are the following:



- 70 -                        Appendix C
ANNUAL BENEFITS IN US$ MILLION
Index              Appraisal estimate          Updated estimate
Annual i/    Life of FLs    Annual 1/   Life of FLs
US$ 23/ton (avg. 1995)     2.7           16.3          2.6         15.7
US$ 26 (nominal rates)     3.1           18.5          3.0         17.8
US$ 16 (effective rates)   1.9           11.5          1.8         10.9
Annual estimate is based for the years of maximum energy savings (third and fourth year)
21. For a nominal rate of US$ 26 per ton, the benefit attributed to C02 reduction for
the life of the ILUMEX project would be US$ 17.8 million as shown in the table. This
benefit is over and above the economic benefits described above.
22. Assuming the extreme case that the entire cost of the project (US$ 23.8 million)
would be assigned to C02 avoided emissions, the unit cost would be US$ 31.3 per ton of
C02 avoided.



