DocMumet of
THE WORLD BANK
OR omcIAL SE ONLY 
Report No. 12448-NE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMNET FACIMMY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THIE. D=-CTOR
j MEXICO, CEnTAL AMEICA AND ?AI4   ARTMENT
OF THE   ".,.-2 
*       I~NIUJNAIIONAL BANK FOXRECNTUT9   N   UBOlm
.WXt~~~~9VlNMETA                         FUN D,D 
IN y.*KAMO*IT -O       7           /4g 73QU-    ° -'
*> ff vs Q | S <-r  BXNACONAL.I OUE Y,-RRJ[j[$ POM
- ~ EQiQr                                        Cu HTN  PRQ  : 
9~~~~~~~~~~ '-t'17"                                                      i,94'  ''  '      3''
Im~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
ON A  OOMICROGRAPHICS
FAOM 'HE 'LQL .'   -Report No:        12448 MlF
'U' 'I ~Type: MOD
COU&Y1hpmmTO U.  3TC  AINL1  BRSYSIIISPBIO
.   .           . ~~~~,7~ ..     .ad  ,1 9
1 *            rOpr   .        ..          . Reor  ---:  124  ME  --*  
*.   . .   .     -                    Type: ,- DM
. .iAoun*_t bas a resfs d i  ad mae uased by rdim*s nIn faJhe perfmance of. 
th. ofciadt. Rs not otwe be disciosed wit W Blid Banki         -



*             ~~~CURRENCIE  AND EQUIVALENT UNflrS
(Exchang Rates as of lamuary, 31, 1994)
us$,1.0=N*$ 3.11 (NOW M        Pianso)
US5$ 1.00 - NKr 1.50 (Norwegian Kiwi.)
1US$l..3 - SDR 1.O0(Specis LrawingRibs
Ubrrs AND MEASURES
1 Motic ton (Mtgr t(i)              1,000 kg
1~MW (meap-watt)                    1,000 kW
I MWhi (Mopa-watt-hour)             1,000 kWh
.1 (3Wh (Oiga'watt4wur)              1,000 M-Wh
I  (rhCovmwatt.hour)             1,000  W
ACRONYMS AND AB3BREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS          -     Daco Naa~ondl do Obtas- y SeMio* Plilicas (NationalBak of ~uoWorbs and
CF~~~       - ~~CoznBiisidaee&ral 4eflictriiddad (Feea Electrity C  usoa, Ot,veoimnet-
PcC&             owned ~Power Utiit) 
-  United Ntfioi~te Fkam. ork  vnentiqon'   flmte  hangoe
P1DB                                                     M ieciiod   pys~or   o~om~ de Energ14,dpi Sictor flcm ib~
(Trust Fulnd foate  iamo Ekiergy onrvatio ',of the PowI Sector)1
6kr,-          ~- 'olbil BnvironmengTut'Fm
ILUMEX      -    ~~Spanish Acronym Qt( thevProject "Proyetdo do Uso Raciona doeuinc   en
PCU       -     Prqject ~Coofdntwibn Unit
SEDESOL       -         SeCretara doa I)anul social (Mst~yof SocivalDelopmt
and ParsmsWal Indusftry
SHOP             ~~~~Secretadh do Haiedy  rdi Ptblo (nstyOf Finance and Pulc Creit)
SrAP              -     Scientific and Tedchnca Actvisoiq Panel
UNDPUie Nations~ Deveilopen Prograupm
FLs   W. .        -     FoecntLgt Bub  IueCompact adCrua  ioecn
Li&h  uls
CO2               -       abnfix4
DSM                       9aiSi,Maaeet
LRMC                    Long RunmMarginal Cos
NO.               -       itrogen Okid
*                G~~~~(ovemmiAi of NMeai' Fiscal Yjear
jimary 1 -pecemba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
HIGH EFFICENCY LIGHTING PLOT PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUlMMARY
Guaantor:              United Mexican States
Recipient:             Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Plblicos - BANOBRAS
Executing Agency       Comisidn Federal de 13ectricidad - CFE
Benefi:ary:            CFE
Cofinancier:           Kingdom of Norway
Amount:                SDR 7.3 milion (equivalent to US$10.0 million)
Ter:                   Grant
-  handng Plan                   Loc Cot             reinCt            Total Cost
in US$ Million (Equivalent)- --
CFE Funds                       4.3              -5.7                10.0
GET Grant                       0.0               10.0               10.0
Kingdom of Norway               0.0               3.0                3.0
Grant
Total Funds                     4.3               18.7               23.0
Economic Rate
of Retur:                   32% (minimum)
MAP:                        IBRD No. 25270
This report is based on dti findigs of an appraisd mision dtst vsted Mexico on October 13, 1993, and
was composed by Mess. Luis Luzuiaga (Principal Power Engieer, Task M ger), Richard Clifford
(Fin,aicial Analyst), Rudolf Van Puyinbock (Legal Counsel), Luis Cosenza (Power Engineer,
Consltnt) ad included John Slgelvic (Eononist) and Rolf Selrod (Environment Economist),
_rpresenting th govanment of the Kingdom of Norway. Department Director: Edilberto Segua,
Division Chief: Martin Staab.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Rank authoriation.



NMElbIRANDUM AND RECODMRMATI ONF THE D=MRIY
MEXICO.  nTAL AMERCA AA PNAMA DEPARTMENT
T  T) REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
OF TtE LAN AMECAN AND CARIBEN REGION
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) grant to the Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Piablicos (BANOBRAS), with the guarantee of the Government of the United
Mexican States for SDR 7.3 mfllion, equivalent to US$10.0 million, to help finace a High
Efficiency Lighting Pilot Project (the Project) using fluorescent light bulbs (FLs). The Project
will be co-financed by a Nkr 20.25 million grt  from the Kingdom of Norway.
Count and Sector Background
2. Mexico's GDP growth was 3.6% in 1991 and 2.6% in 1992; per capita GDP was
US$3,030 and US$3,470 in 1991 and 1992, respectively. Since per capita GlP was
US$1,990 in 1989, Mexico is eligible for Global Environment Facility (GEF) financing.
3.    The proposed Project underscores Mexico's commitment to environmeptal protection.
The country has a satisfactory nationakenvroimental policy framework, and widi the
assistance of the Bank it Is preparing an environmental action plan', which is expected t -be
completed in mid-1994. In particular, and also with assistamce from the Bank, Mexico has
begun to take fikm steps to reduce contamination from vehicles, including the introduction of
unleaded gasoline, mandatory use of catalytic converters for all new vehicles, and strict
vehicle emission inspdections twice a year. Mexico is a signatory of the United Natons
Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC) and the Government is commited to
formulate and implement national and regional programs to mitigate climate changes. Under
the Montreal Protcol, Mexico has decided to phase out ozone depleting substances, agreeing
to meet timetables for industrialized countries; this initiative is being supported tirough two
projects financed with Montreal Protocol funds for which the Bank is the implementing
agency. More importantly perhps, public awareness of environmental problems has been
growing and the Government's concern for the environment is widely supported by the public
at large.
4.    In May of 1992, SEDUE (the ex-Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology), was
absorbed within the newly created Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social, SEDESOL (Mnstry of
Social Development), which made it possible, among other things, to have a better
coordination of the government's environmental policy. Within SEDESOL, the development
and implementation of Mexico's environmental policy is the responsibility of two
decentralized agencies: (a) the Instituto Nacional de Ecologfa, INE (National Environmental
Institute) and (b) the Procuradurfa de Proteccidn Ambiental (Environment Protection
Office). The Bank is assisting Mexico in strengthening its environmental institutional capacity
through the Mexico Environmental Project which also includes a US$ 25 million biodiversity
component financed by GET.
A deiled description and asses_me of Mexico's environmental issues can be found in the Bank' rxport
*Mexico: Environmtal Issues Staegy Paper dated August, 1992.



2
5.    Demand for electric energy in Mexico is high: it was 100 TWIh in 1992 and is
projected to grow at 5.3% per annum, resulting therefore in the need to add 14,000 MW over
the next ten years. Massive investments, on the order of US$3 billion per year for
generation, transmission and distribution will be needed to meet this growing demand, part of
which is expected to be financed by the private sector, as the Electricity Law, amended in
1992, now permits independent power generation. Since Mexico's installed generating
capacity is about 80% thermal, there is concern over the gaseous emissions from thermo-
electric power plants and their deleterious effect on the environment. Current estmated
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from thermal power stations amount to 57 million tons per
year; similarly emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOr) amount to
1,070,000 tons p.a. and 115,340 tons p.a., respectively. The federally owned eletric rower
utility, CFE, has implemented (with Bank assistance under Loan 3083-ME) supply-side
management and demand-side management (DSM) actions. It is also expected that the newly
created Energy Regulatory Agency will establish policies to furiher enhance DSM activities
and require Integrated Resource Planning as opposed to Least Cost Planning now practiced by
CFE.
6.    Electricity tariff increases over the last three years have resulted n an average price
for 1993 of US cents 6.92/kWh, or about 83% of long run marginal costs (LRMC). The
average price for residential consumers was US cents 6.65/lkWh, with a range that varied
between 5.3 and 15.3 US cents per kWh, involving a significant cross subsidy from
residential consumers, with medium to large consumption, to other consumers. This sitation
is being corrected, as CFE is committed to gradually eliminate by 1997 the existig large
cross subsidies among different types of consumers and to raise its average price to reach
LRMC by the same year.
7.    In August of 1990, CFE established a trust fund (E) with funds provided by
power utilities, labor unions, contractors and suppliers to support and finance programs
related to energy conservation in the power sector. To date, FIDE has managed funds
totalling approximately US$16 million, which has been used to finance pilot and demonstra-
tion projects, the dissemination of their results and training in energy conservation. In
addition to partally funding FIDE, CFE has direcdy promoted and financed several energy
conservation projects, such as: (a) the use of more efficient light bulbs (sodium vapor) in the
public lighting system; (b) the financing, through a trust fund, of the thermal insulation of
homes in areas with hot weather to reduce the air conditioning load; (c) assistance to the
private sector to identify measures to improve energy efficiency, and (d) seven small pilot
projects to replace incandescent bulbs with FLs in Hermosillo (two projects), Puebla,
Queretaro, Valladolid, Chetmnal and Mexico City.
B.    Project Objectives: (a) demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of reducing
emissions of Green House Gases (OHO) and simultaneously reduce local environmental
contamination through the widespread installation of high efficiency lighting; @b) build the
institutional capacity for technological change and energy conservation; (c) provide a
replicable model for DSM in Mexico and elsewhere in the developing world, and (d)
strengthen CFE's capacity to practice DSM on a sustainable basis.
9.    The members of the FCCC have agreud that the policies and measures to reduce
emissions of GHG may be implemented jointly with other FCCC member countries. The
criteria for the mechanism of joint implementation are, however, yet to be developed and
decided upon by the parties. To assist in the development of possible criteria, the Norwegian



3
Government has decided to co-finance this Project, which might serve as a d tmonstratlon
vehicle for elements of a joint implementation scheme. The agreement of the 3overnments of
Mexico and Norway on the co-financing of this Project in no way implies the positions that
both Governments might take in relation to the subject of joint project implementation under
the FCCC.
10.   Eect Desripi: The Project will replace approximately 1.7 million incandescent
bulbs with fluorescent light bulbs in the cities of Guadalajara and Monterrey.. FLs require
only about 25% of the energy needed by incandescent bulbs to produce the same lighting level
and last up to 13 times longer (up to 10,000 hours). Guadalajara and Monterrey are Mexico's
second and third largest cities with approximately 550,000 residential electricity consumers
each; they also have different climates and economic structures and should, therefore, provide
valuable information for extending the program to other areas. CFE is responsible for the
distribution of electricity in both cities, where there are customer service centers that are in
daily contact with the consumers, a necessary condition for the successful implementation of
the proposed Project.
11.   The Project includes: (a) the acquisition of FLs (77% of project cost, including
contingencies); (b) the purchase of vehicles, metering equipment, personal computers, office
equipment and sales stands (2%); (c) consultant services for canvassing, marketing, testing,
auditing and project evaluation (4%); (d) the cost of engineering, monitoring and evaluaton,
billing and accounting (8%); and (e) the direct costs of implemening the Project, including
fully dedicated staff in both cities, and office and admistrative expenses (9%).
12.   There are no policy or institutional reformsr needed to ensure effective Ptoject
implemenation. Hlowever, experience gained from the small pilot projects (para. 7) points to
the need for baseline-assessments and a comprehensive evaluation procedure. For the
proposed Project, a baseline assessment will be carried out through specialized consultants.
Their work should provide the basis for a suitable evaluation process, particularly with respect
to induced sales that resut from project related activities (-free driver effect-).
13.   The Project incorporates the following features: (a) the benefits will be shared with
the participants, as is common in many other countries, through a rebate of approximately
63% (on average) of the total cost of the FL (which includes overhead costs); (b) participants
will pay for FLs either in cash or under a deferred payment plan of 24 months (as part of
their electricity bill), paying an interest rate equivalent to that prevailing for Government
treasury bills (CETES) (at the end of the present Project, the balance of reflows of fumds
would be approximately US$ 9.0 million); (c) technical standards and specifications have been
developed to ensure that the FLs will operate properly and reach their projected lifetime
despite a power system that is subject to significant voltage variations, and (d) acceptable FL
performance guarantees will be provided for both the custmer and CFE.
14.   Rationale for   r Funding: The GEF classifies projects into three Types. Type 1
include projects economically viable on the basis of domestic benefits and costs to the country
itself. These type of projects are normally not eligible for GEF financing, unless the GEF
Participants agree that a compelling case has been made that, despite attractive rates of return,
the operation would not proceed without GEF involvement. The proposed Project has
attractive rates of return, and it could be =xpected that it would be implemented purely for its
cost-effectiveness, and that the use of the FLs would spread, even in the absence of the
Project. However, experience confirms that unless consumers are shown how they can



4
benefit from FL use, the process of change is extremely slow. A major problem is the high
initial investment (since FLs typically cost at least ten times as much as the incandescent bulb
that they replace). Furthermore, there is a need to inform, and more importandy, convince
the consumers that they will in fact eventually reap the expected benefits. CFE's own small
pilot projects have demonstrated that, given a suitably designed project, consumers will accept
the use of FLs. However, these projects have been too small to have an impact on the nation-
wide use of FLs. GEF participation is therefore essentiaW to demonstrate that the benefits to
the global environment and to Mexico can be realized.
15.   Based on the above considerations, the proposed Project has been designated as a
Type I project. The Project has been considered and endorsed by the GEF Scientific and
Technical Advisory Panel (STAP), and has been authorized as part of a work program
approved by the GEF Participants at their December, 1991 meeting.
16.   Project Cos and Einancing: Total Project cost (including price and physical
contingancies) has been estimated at US$ 23.0 million equivalent, of which: (a) US$ 17.63
million will be required to purchase the FLs; (b) US$ 0.41 million for the purchase of
:ehicles, metering equipment, computers, office equipment and sale stands; (c) US$ 1.01
million for consultant services (interviewing, murketing, monitoring and evaluation,
laboratory testing and auditing); (d) US$ 1.93 million for engineering and project support;
and (e) US$ 2.02 million for direct project implementation. The Project will be financed with
a grant from the GET, equivalent to US$ 10 million, a grant from the Kingdom of Norway of
Nkr 20.25 million, and the equivalent of US$ 10 million-from CFE's own resources. The
grant funds will be used to Snance partly the purchase of FLs and subsequently be tranferred
to the pardcipants of the program as rebates for the purchase of FLs. The details of project
cost and financing may be found in Schedule A.
17.      ! Wrect e Impementon: For the design of the proposed Project, CFE has relied on
the results of market studies made in Guadalajara and Monterrey, and on the experience
gathered on residental lighting in the pilot energy conservation projects, as well as in the
thermal insulation inmrovement projects. These projects have illustrated the advanges of
proceeding through implementing units finnced through trust accounts ("Fideicomisosu) set
up with BANOBRAS; the system has been shown to be efficient and low cost, and has
allowed CFE to retain control of the projects and to introduce timely adjustments to ensure
their success. It also guarntees that the fimds, including those resulting from the credit sales
to the participants, are kept separate from those that enter into CFE's own treasury and that
they only be used for the purposes of the Project. The Project will therefore be implemented
through two Implementing Units (one for each city) that will administer tust accounts opened
in BANOBRAS. Each Implemendag Unit will be directed by a Technical Committee with
five members, of which four are CFE's staff members. The Technical Committee will
appoint a Manager for each Unit who will be responsible for the day-to-day management of
the Project in each city; the Manager, and the personnel under his responsibility, will be hired
by, and paid with fiuds from each trust account. CFE wil also establish a project support
and monitoring group to provide guidance to the Project and to provide day-to-day support
and supervision through a Project Coordination Unit, PCU. A high level Project Advisory
Committee will ovetsee the execution of the Project. FLs will be sold in the sale stands that
CFE will install in every customer center in the two cities were consumers pay their
electricity bills and in selected shopping centers, and as required, using door-to-door sales.
Billing and collection of payments for FLs sold on terms will be done using CFE's customer
service facilities and will be included in the customer's electricity bill. CFE's systems and



experience on these matters are more than adequate to ensure that there will be no problems
in the areas of billing and acsounting. The proposed Project Organization is explained in
detail in Annex 1. The execution of the Project will be guided by ths Operating Guidelines
described in Annex 6, and the proposed Project monitoring and evaluation methods are shown
in Annex 5.
18.   CFE has proposed to restrict the Project to the residential sector on the basis that the
other sectors, which include industrial and commercial users, do not require special inceatives
to make the instllation of FLs attractive; in addition, CFE does not wish to be seen by the
commercial distributors of FLs in Mexico as their competitors. In order to promote the use
of FLs more widely, the Project will fund a marketing campaign to foster use of FLs, sold
through normal retail outlets, among the commercial and industrial customers. CFE further
plans to direct the Project to the low consumption users in the residential sector to provide a
relief, by means of more efficient use of electricity for lighting, when future tariff increases
are implemented. This should not reduce the energy savings produced by the Project, as
experience shows that while low consumption users have fewer light bulbs in their homes,
they make equal or more intensive use of them compared to high consumption users because
low consumption users spend more time in their limited number of rooms lit by FLs. At
present, electricity sales to these customers result in a net loss for each kWh, and CFE under-
standably wishes to reduce its losses. Nonetheless, since energy rates for low consumer users
are heavily subsidized, these customers would normally be the least inclined to participate in
the Project. Consequently, sales will be monitored closely to ensure that they do not proceed
panstakiigy slowly while waiting for these low consumption customers to participate.
Targets have therefore been developed and failure to reach them will trigger more aggressive
marketing strategies, including to high consumption users.
19.   It is estimated that atl the FLs will be purchased and installed in two and a half years
after project start, that the evaluation of the operation will be completed six months later, and
that a final project survey among the participants will be carried out a year after completion.
Consequently, the duration of the Project has been estimated to be three and a half years.
However, as some of the FLs will be sold on deferred payment terms, recovery of funds will
require up to four and a half years. BANOBRAS will be responsible for the management of
the grant funds, for keeping Project accounts, for arranging audits by independent auditors,
and for sending annual audit repor.'. to the Bank. The project completion date is estimated to
be December 31, 1997. Scheduie C ahows a timetable of key Project processing events, and
Annex 9 lists the documents of the Project file.
20.   Procurement and Disbursement: In order to profit from economies of scale, FLs will
be purchased using both GET and Norwegian grant funds, in no more than three bid packages
of not less than US$ 4 million each, under ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines for
procurement and using Bank standard bidding documents. Procurement documents will be
subject to. prior review by the Bank. The first contract is expected to be awarded early in
1994, and the second and third before the stock of FLs is depleted. Technical specifications
for the various types of PLs to be purchased are shown in Annex 2. It is expected that there
will be keen competition among manufacturers, including local companies that at present
produce about five million FLs annually, mainly for the export market. Purchase of vehicles,
computers, metering equipment, sales stands and office equipment will be financed with funds
provided by CFE and will follow local procedures, The hiring of consultants wIll also follow
local regulations as they will be fimanced with CFE's contribution; the proposed terms of -
reference are shown in Annex 7. In view of the limited number of expected contracts to be



6
financed by the gats, disbursements wiUl be by direct Bank payment to suppliers.
Disbursement of both grants will be made on a pd umas basis, and would be completed in
th   years; closing date of the grant will be December 31, 1996. Administration and
disbursement of the grant from the Kingdom of Norway will be carried out by the Bank
together with the GET grant. The proportion of the goods and services to be financed by
each party, and the disbursement calendar are shown In Schedule B.
21.   Prolect Sustainability: The Project could be replicated using the reflow of funds from
the sale of the FLs, provided that CFE would continue sharing its savings with the
participants and also contribute fresh funds for the subsequent projects. CFE has (a) agreed
to expand the scope of the Project, if required, until all funds from both grants have been
transferred to the participants in the form of rebates for the purchase of FLs, and (b) agreed
that if the Preject is successful, the Implementing Units will continue their activities beyond
the scope of the present Project, until the balance of the refow on funds (about US$ 9.0
million) is completely vxhausted.
22.  LIsns from Previous GEF Projects and Previous Bank Involvement: CFE's
experience in its previous small pilot projects indicates that: (a) it is necessary to share a
significant part of the benefits of the project with the ulsers through a rebate; otherwise, the
cost of the FLs is perceived as too high by potential participants; (b) it is important to have a
well defined marketing and promotional strategy; (c) certain types of FLs are preferred,
partcarly the 22 watt circular lamp; (d) to penetrate the low consumption residential
market, door-to-door sales are most effective. Furthermore, Banks experience in the power
secwo indicates tha: (e) agreement should be leached early on draft ICB documents and (f)
te Ministry of Finance and Public Credit must be commizd to the project "I order to allow
CFE to include it in its investment program. Agreement on bid documents for ICB was
reached, -the Ministry's commitment has been securd, and the other mentioned lessons have
been incorporated in the project design (Annex 8).
23. Aereed Actions: Agreements were reached ow. (a) the final tex: of the Operaing
Guidelines for the Project, which will constitute the norm for the execudon of the Project.
Among other things, the Guidelines: i) provide guidance to CFE, BANOBRAS and the lUs
for the execution of the Project; ii) establish the percentage of the rebates and provide
flexibility for adjusting them and for shifting emphasis among the various categories of
pari-cipants, considering the results of the periodic reviews of the Project; iii) permit the
funds to be distributed differently than the original plan if the Project in one of the two cities
is seriously lagging; and iv) define clearly the periodic goals to be achieved, and the
monitoring and evaluation plan. Any modifications to the Operating Guidelines have to be
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the text of the document that will establish the trust deeds for the
Implementing Units in Guadalajara and Montcrrey, which include their obligation to observe
the Operating Guidelines; (c) the obligation of holding Logether with the Bank annual reviews
and a mid-term review, and the targets to be achieved; at the time of the mid-term review, the
Bank will have the option of canceling the balance of both grants if sales have not reached at
least 70% of the agreed targets (as a percent of the total FLs to be installed); (d) the
commitment of CFE of preparing semi-annual progress reports for the Project, a project
completion report, and of disseminating the results of the Project through a seminar directed
to Mexican and international audiences; and (e) the obligation of CFE to expand the
geographic area of the Project, if needed, to sell more FLs until the full amount of the grants
has been transferred to the participants of the Project. In the event of misprocurement or any



misuse of the grant funds, the Bank may require the repayment In whole or in part of both
grants.
24.   Condition for Signature of Grant and Project Agreement: delivery by CFE to the
Bank of a Supplemental Letter, presenting the final version of aho Project Operating
Guidelines. Condio  o-f E-ffectiyes (i) execution of the trust deeds for the Implementing
Units for Guadalajara and Monterrey; (i) establishment and staffing of the central Project
Advisory Committee and the local Technical Committees, and appointment of local managers,
with qualified pesonnel satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) execution of the Norwegian grant
agreement.
25.   Envirolunental ASpec=: As a signatory of the FCCC, Mexico is committed to
contribute to the objectives of the Convention; this Project will be a positive step in that
direction. Due to the benefits that it produces for the environment, the Project has been
classified as Category C. The Project will result in: (a) global enviror - :al benefits through
a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of about 118,000 tons annually, taus producing
climate related benefits mostly for Mexico. This figure is likely to increase through the "free
driver effect" (or induced sales) of the project throughout Mexico; and (b) national
environmental benefits through reduced emissions of sulphur dioxide (3,000 Ions annually),
nitrogen oxides (205 tons annually) and particulates. These reductions will improve local air
quality and result in positive health effects and less damage to crops, vegetation and buildings.
The reduction of emissions from power stations in the Project areas will add favorably to the
national iniatives to deal with these envronmental problems. A more detailad analysis of the
enviromental benefits of the Project, patrdcularly of the 01H1, is presented in Annex 4.
26.   PWie  Benefits. The execution of the Project wili result in substantial economic
benefits to: i) the Project participants who will enjoy a comparable or higher lighting level at
reduced cost; and ii) society at large and CFE, which will be able to postpone investments for
about 100 MW and save about 169 GWh (or 311,000 barrels of Bunker C and 34,000 tons of
coal) annually. The economic evaluation of the Project, including a risk analysis, is included
as Annex 3. The results show that for Mexico the internal rate of return, IRR, exceeds 56%
for the vaious sensitivity tests considered; for CFE alone, the IRR exceeds 32% for all
probable events, and for the participants the minimum IRR calculated was over 100%. The
Project thus has very attractive internal rates of return for all parties involved and the results
are very robust even under very pessimistic assumptions.
27.   ProjecBisks: The main risks associated with the Project are: (a) market penetration
might be slower than expected, which might result in higher Project costs as more costly
marketing strategies would have to be pursued; (b) the FLs might be installed in places where
they are used for less than four hours a day on average, as assumed. However, the Project
remains viable even assuming an average use of only two hours per day; (c) the voltage
fluctuations in the Mexican power system might be such as to significauty reduce the lifetime
of the FLs; in order to reduce this risk, the specifications will require that fluctuations of up
to plus and minus 10% have no effect on the lifetime of the lamps (voltage regulation is
smaller than this in Guadalajara and Monterrey); and (d) the FLs might fail to reach their
projected lifetime, even if there were no excessive voltage fluctuations. Given that the
lifetime of the FL is expected to extend over several years, CFE will perform stanxd
accelerated tests that will be complemented with adequate supplier guarantees. For its part,
CFE will guarantee to program participants,^replacement of any FL that fails within two years



8
of the date of purchase; experience has shown that most defective Ms will fail within this
period of time.
Re con une nd ti on
28.   1 am satisfied that the proposed grant complies with the provisions of Resolution No.
IBRD 91-5 of the Executive Directors, relating to the establishment if the Global Environ-
mental Facility and recommend that the Regional Vice President, Latin America and the
Caribbean Region, approve it.
Edilberto Segura
Director
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Washington D.C.
March 8, 1994
A ttacments



SCHEDULE A
PI2lCT- COST AND
(In Thousamd US$)
COST                    FINANCING
CONCEPT                            LOCAL I FOREIGN  TOTAL    CFE      GET   NORWAY  TOTAL
LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT
Lamps                                   0   14,104   14,104   3,704   8,000    2,400  14,104
Vehicles                              162        0      162     162                      162
Measuring Equipment                     0       49       49      49                       49
Computing Equipment                     0       65       65      65                       65
Sales Stands                           32        0       32      32                       32'
Office Equlpment                       19        0       19      19                       19
Subtotal                              213   14.218   14,430   4,03Q   8,000    2,400  14,430
SERVICES
Market Surveys                        194        0      194     194                      194
Promotion and Advertising             290        0      290     290                      290
Monitoring, Evaluation and Final Reports  125   38      163     163          .           163
Lab Tests                              97        0       97      97                       97
Auditing and Financing                 65        0       65      65   -                   65
Subtotal                              770       38      809     809       0        0     809
ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT
CFE's Engineering                     158        0      158     158 e                    158
Coordhnation, Follow up and Evaluation  238      0      238     238                      238
Support to Central Office              26        0       26      26                       26
Support to Local Offices             1,126       0    1,126    1.126                    1,126
Subtotal                             1,548       0    1,548    1,548      0        0   1,548
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
BANOBRAS' Fee                          23        0       23      23                       23
Management Costs                     1,590       0    1,590    1,590                    1,590
Subtotal                             1,613       0    1.613    1,613      0        0   1,613
UNALLOCATED
Physical Contingency                  518    1,782    2,300    1,000   1,000     300   2,300
Price Contingency                     518    1,782    2,300    1,000   1,000     300   2,300
Subtotal                             1,036   3.564    4,600   2,000   2,000      600   4,600
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  5,180 t 17,820   23,000   10,000t 10,000    3,000  23,000



S(::DI]E B
Page 1 of 2
WIITDAWAdL OF PROCEEDS OF THE GRANT
The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed from the
proceeds of the GET grant (US$10 million equivalent) and the grant from the Kingdom
of Norway (NK 20.25 million) to each category, and the percentage of expenditures to
be financed.
Norwegian        Percatage of
GET Grant        Grant            expenditures
Qaeo               aD               NKL              t be- SDR,Kb f
FLs                7,300,000        20,250,0001           74%
ESTIMATED GRANT DISBURSEMENS
(Includes Norwegian Grant)
(in Millions of US$)
-IB-1RD Fisca Yeart-
1994            1995            1i22
Annual                       0.65             6.50             5.85
Cumulative                   0.65             7.15            13.00
Closing date:                December 31, 1996
Equivalent to US$ 3 million at dme of projeot preparation



Page 2 of 2
=CREQCUffhgD 2
US$ Thousands (equivalent)
Procurement Method
CategQor                  IBL              NBF3            lToal
1. Goods                 17,630              410            18,040
(13,000)                           (13,000)
2. Consultants'                            1,010             1,010
services
3. Otber4                  -               3,950             3,950
4. Total                 17,630            5,370            23,000
(13,000)                           (13,000)
2 Amownts in pareis ane amounts to be fnanced by the GET and Norwein gmlns
NBF: Not fioanoed wi*hOrT or Norwngan glint Amds.
4 CE's enes reletd to prejct support, includig admitraive expense. of CE'a cental and
oad offices, ad of the implemeding uns, BANOBRAS' fee, ac.



SCHBDUISE C
TABLOX (} E PRQlJECT PROCESSING EVSM
(a)   Time required to prepare the project                       24 months
(b)   Prepared by:                                                    CFE
(c)   First Bank Mission:                                   August 12, 1991
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departre:                          October 13, 1993
(e)   Negotations:                                        February 16, 1994
(f)   Planned Dae of Effctiveness:                               April 1994
(g)   List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs                                 None



HIGM 1IChCl? LMN WPT IRO
ITMCAANES



HIIGH zBNYLG   PILODT POl
TECINICAL ANNE
Annex 1:    Project O    zaon
Annex 2:    Technical Spedficions for FLs
Annex 3:    Project Economic Analysis
Annex 4:    Enviornmental Aspects
Annex 5:    Proect Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 6:    Project Operatng Guideines
Annex 7:    Terms of Reference for Consultants
Annex 8:    Lessons Learned from Past Projects
Annex 9:    Project File
Map:        IBRD No. 25270



ANNE 1
Page 1 of5
HIGH        E      LH         PILOT PROJECr
1.    The ornization chosen for the Project is similar to that currently used
successfully by CPE for the home thermal insulation improvemet proect, i.e, the
trust account "Fideicomiso para el Progama de Aislamiento T6rmico" (F TERM),
which is being implemented in Baja California (Mexicali) and Sonora (San Luis Rio
Colozado) to reduce the air conditioning load. lb implement the "Proyecto de Uso
Racional de Iluminacidn en Mexico" (ILLJMBX) project (Spanish acronym for the
Project), tw Implementing Units (lUs) will be established in Guadalajara and
Monterrq to administer the tr  accounts opened in BANOBRAS. The mUs will be
known as FILUME Guadalajara and FILUME Montey. lb set policy and
saperi  compliance with Project objectives, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has
been set up in CFE's HEadquart in Mexico City.
2.    The Head of the PCU or Project Coordinator, is the Subgent 3 de 1aluan
(Deputy Maager for Project Evaluation) of the Subdeci6n de DIstnbuci6n (Direc-
torate ifr Distribution). The Project Coordinator will have full time dedication to the
Project; other members of the PCU include a representative of -Programa de Ahorro
de lneria del Sector El6crico' (PAESE), a repstative of the engineering staff of
CFE (responsible for the preparation of the technical specifications of the FLs) and a
consultant specialized in economic analysis of projects This group has been in
charge of the Pzoject to date and is familia with its background, objectives and goals.
Their members have also been involved ¢ the small pilot lighting projects imple-
mented by CFE with its own funds and can therefor apply the lessons learned in
those projecs to the ILUMEX project.
3.    The main functions of the PCU are the following: (a) support the Distribution
Divisions in Jahsco and Golfo Norte (which serve Guadalaara and Monterrey, respec-
tively) as well as the Managers of the corresponding Implementing Units; (b)
supervise Project implementtion; (c) propose the stategy and studies (marketing,
technical and economic) to monitor and evaluate Project results; (d) based on the
reports submitted by the Managers of the IUs, prepare the pgress reports needed
during Projec implementation (including those typically required by the Bank); (e)
procure the goods and services that will be required by the ILUMEX project; (f)
prepare the Operating Guidelines for the Project, and (g) inform the authorities of
CFE (through the Project Committee mentioned in next pargraph) of the advances in
Project implementation.
4.    CFE will supervise the Project through a high level Project Advisory
Committee whose members will be the Deputy Director for Distribution, the Director
General of FIDE, the Distribution Manager of CFE and the Commercial Mnaer of



ANNEXI
Page 2 of 5
CFE. The President of the Committee will be the Deputy Director for Distribution.
The fucions of the Committee will include the following: (a) appoint the members
of the PCU; (b) approve the strategy for Project implementation d oped by the
MCU; (c) approve the details of the two trust
accounts to be opened in BANOBRAS to finance the two Implementing Units; (d)
appoint the presidents of the lechnical Committees of each of the two Implementng
Units, and (e) meet periodically to review the progress reports prpared by the PCU
and recommend those measures that it deems necessauy to reach the goals of the
Poject.
5.    CFE will also provide technical support to the Project. The scations for
the pcuent of the FLs have been prepared by CFE's Engineeing Department in
consultation with CFE's Procurement Offlce. CFE will also be responsible fio the
bidding process and the procurement of the FLs, which will then be handed over to
the two Implementing Units in Guadalaara and Monter. Finally, for defered
tem sales, CFE's Service Centers at Guadalajara and Monterrey will be Vponsible
for including in the customer's electicity bill the amount financed tD purchase the
FLs.
6.   In order to implement the Project, two decentralized lUs will be established,
one in Guadalajara and one in Monterr. lb ensure the adminstrative and fimancial
independence needed for the expeditious implementation of the ILUMEX project,
these units will be financed thrugh two trust accounts (wFideicomisosu) opened in
BANOBRAS. All funds provided for the project, as well as the payments made by
the participants who purchase the FLs on credit, will be deposited in these trust
accounts. The regulations applicable to these trust accounts will establish that the
funds shall only be used for the purposes of the ILUMEX project. The trust accounts
operting regulatons will allow the use of funds in any city in the two Distribution
Divisions that serve Guadalajara and Monteey (asco and Golfo Norte, respective-
ly), although efforts will be concentrated initially in these two cities which together
have about 1.1 million residential consumers. Nevertheless, the proposed
arrangemant wil allow for the Project to be extended to the two regions, which in
essence would double the number of potential participants (there are about 2.5 million
residential consumers in both regions). This option would be exercised if the demand
in both cities does not develop as forecasted.
7.    The administation of each IU wil be the responsibility of a lbchnical
Committee whose members wil be: (a) the Manager of the Regional Distribution
Division (Jalisco or Golib Norte); (b) the Deputy Manager of the same Division; (c)
the Deputy Manager of the Commercial Division of the same Region; (d) the Head of
PAESE of the same Division, and (e) a representative of BANOBRAS who will be a
non-wting member of the Committee. The President of the Committee will be the
Minager of the Regional Distribution Division.
8.    The functions of the 'bchnical Committee will include the folowing: (a)
approve: (i) the annual program and budget; (ii) the agreement to be signed between



ANEX1
Page 3 of 5
BANOBRAS and CFE for collection of the amounts owed by customers for the
credit sales of FLs, and (b) monitor the flow of funds for the Project, including
CFE's contributions. The Commaittee will meet at least once a month and since all its
voting members are part of CFEs staff, it is expected that there will be very close
coordination with the PCU.
9.    [b benefit from the local expertise that is available, the Lbchnical Committee
may decide to establish a local Advisory Committee whose members would include
representatives of: (a) the State (Monterey or Guadalajara) Energy Conservation
Commission; (b) the National Chamber of Contactors; (c) the National Chamber of
Commerce; (d) the National Chamber of Electrical Equipment Mauutes; (e) the
local University or lbchnical Institute, and (1) FIDE. This Committee would meet
when convened by the Technical Committee and would act stictly as an advisory
group.
10.   The dayto-day adminitron Oaf each trust fimd will be the responsibiity of a
Project Manager. The Project Manager will be appointed by the ¶Jbchnical
Committee, and he will then proceed to select the staff needed for Project
implemenlation. It is estdmated that the staff will include at least the folwing: (a) an
administrative manager, (b) a commercia manager; (c) a warehouse manager; (d)
ales supervis   (to supevs sales at CEE's sevice centers as well as door-to-door
saes); (e) sales agents and (f) serweries. The administrative and commercial
managers and the reaining staff will be appointed by the Project Manager.
11. The main functions of the Project Manager will include the following: (a)
propose for approval by the Technical Committee: (i) the annual pzogam and budget
for the Implementng Units, and (ii) the agreement to be signed betwn BANOBRAS
and CFE authorizig the collection from customers the bi-monthly payments for FLs;
(b) monitor Project implementation progss and propose, and when necesary take
apppi  measures to ensure Project success; (c) prepare all reports specified in the
Operating Guidelines to keep all interested parties inormed of the progress in Project
implementation; (d) prepare procedures for the storage, distribution, sale and installa-
tion of FLs; (e) answer customers queries and, based on the Operating Guidelines,
setle complaints related to the perfrmance of the FLs; (f) authorize payments to
contactors that prwvide marketing, evaluation and installation services for the Project,
and (g) appoint the administative and commercial managers, as well as the rest of the
required staff.
12.   For a better appreciatio of the proposed organizion, the organization charts
of the structures to be adopted in Headquarters and in the field are shown in pages 4
and 5.



--------- --k                                     
---------
~ ~Ii!iI4'iv------_----i-
!--------                        - i--  ,lM
!  Ii  g 
| ~~~~~I i 41
.                                                 E1
If~~~~~                                _



ANiNEX-I
Page 5 of 5
HIGH EFMCIENCY LIGHTING PILOT PRO=ECT
a~                                       X
S  8    I S  kE~I 
2 , a~~~~~I                                   X             i
lCJ  L -
CO ~ ~   ~ ~                                         ----- 8
-- --   - - -- -- - -- -- - -    - - -  -- -- -   - -       - -i- ---l-
L                  --1-----



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
JIGH  ElPCE:NCY LIGHTING O   IWJRO
nical Specifications for the 
1.    Since FLs are a relatively new product, the corresponding technical
specifications have been ewvlving and will probably continue to do so. In order to
prepare its specifications, CFE drew on the experience of other utilities, mainly those
in the United States of America, as well as on the results of the small pilot proecs
that it has recently imPlemented. CFE also profted from the comments and
suggestions offeed by several manulictws o PLs. For the purpose of this Project,
the term "FLs" includes compact fluorescent light bulbs and circular fluorescent
bulbs.
2.    Given the nature of the product, experiece shows that its appearance and
dimensions are as important as its technical characteristics; otherwise, it will not be
accepted by the public. Similarly, and for the same reason, color rendering is very
important. Both the appearance and the color renderng of the FLs must be pleaing
to the eye.
3.    Technically, it is very important that the FLs deliver the ewpected efficiency
measured in lumens per watt, that they reach thedir expected litime, that they have a
high power factor and that the harmonic distortion that they introduce into the system
be as small as possible. Since FLs to be procured under the Project are to some
exet Otailor made", some of these fctors have been requested in the specifications,
while others will be the subject of a bonus or a penalty in the evaluation of the
tenders to be received.
4.   IThe specifications require that the FLs be manured in accordance with the
fowing sandards: American National Standards Institute, ANSI, the International
Electochical Commission, IEC, and the Illumination Engineering Soiety, IES.
The specfications also state that other inteonally recopized standards that
provide the same prformance, or exceed it, will also be acceptable.
5.   TIe specifications cover three Types of FLs (n accordance with their
luminous output in lumens), and two Categories (in accordance to the color of their
lght or intenal tempture). The main technical chaceistics specified by CFE
are the following:
(a) Opeting voltage: 120 volts plus/minus ten percent for Monter, &.d
127 volts plus/tminus ten percent for Guadalajara.
(b) Efficiency: minimum 47 lumens per wat.



ANNEXt
Page 2 of 3
(c) Luminous flux (at 25 degrees Celsius): (i) Type 1: From 750 to 900
lumes; (ii) Type 2: From 1,000 to 1,200 lumens, and (iii) Type 3: From
1,400 to 1,700 lumens. The luminous flux must be equal or greater than 90%
of the nominal value during 1,000 hours of opeation.
(d) Color temperature (degrees Kelvin): (i) Category A: 4,000 to 4,200, and
(ii) Category B: 2,600 to 2,800.
(e) Color Rendering Index: Greater than 80.
(f) Operating life: 10,000 hours.
(g) Power actor: Equal to or greater than 90%.
(h) Harmonic distortion: Not greater than: (i) third harmonic: 30%; (ii) fifth
harmonic: 10%; (iii) seventh harmonic: 7%; (iv) ninth harmonic: 5%; (v)
eleventh through forty ninth barmonic: 3%, and (vi) total harmonic distortion:
33%.
(i) Total length: Not more than 8 inches for all Types.
6.    Each FL will be provided with a thermal overload protection device that will
automatically tun it off in case it averheats and that will automatically turn it back on
when it cools of. The specifcations will accept both electonic and eleomagetic
balasts, as wel as a single piece (ballast and lamp intgrted in a single unit) or two
piece Ls (ballast and lamp manufacted as two independent units that can be
searated and reconnected at will). In case a two piece FL is quoted, the bidder will
guarantee that the complete unit will operate as required in the specifications.
7.    Bidders will be requested to frniash three samples for each type of FL quoted.
These samples will be tested in the Lighting Laboratory of Mexico City, widely
recognized as of high quality, with reWect to: (a) operating voltage; (b) efficiency; (c)
luminous flux; (d) color temperature; (e) power factor, and (t) harmonic distortion.
CFE has reserved the right to declare non-rebponsive any tender that, as a result of
the tests, fails to meet the specifications.
8.    bnder evaluation will include a bonus for exeeding the required efficiency
(47 lumens per watt) and power fctor (90 %). The tender documents include two
formulas for these purposes, so that all prospective bidders will know beforehand how
these two factors will be evaluated and design their product accordingly. Those bids
that do not meet the minimum efficiency and power factor (47 lumens/watt and 90%,
respectively) will be rejected.
9.    CFE will choose at random 20 lamps from the first delivery made by the
seleced contractor, and these FLs will be subjected to the same tests mentioned in
paragraph 7, as well as a test to confirm that the luminous flux will be maintained as



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
required by the specifications. If the tests show that the FLs fail to meet the
specifications, CFE reseves the right to rwect the frst delivery or to cancel the
contract. CFE will also use a standard procedure to test the life of the FLs. For this
purpose the lamps opeate continuously, except for the periods in which the standards
call that they shall be turn off. This procedure will allow CFE to know the results in
about 15 months after the start of the test. If the test shows that the FLs have fiiled
to meet the standards, the contractor will deliver, free of charge, a number of FLs
equal to the number originally delivered multiplied by a factor equal to the difference
between 51% (as established by the applicable standard) and the percentage of FLs
that lasted 10,000 hours. This obligation will be guaranteed by a provision included
in the model for the performance security included in the tender documents.



ANNMBX
Paga 1 of 6
fPrject gEonomic Analysis
1.    The project entails costs and produces benefits for Mexico, CFE and the consumers,
consequently, three different analyses have been prepared and are discussed in the following
ParagaphS.
EconmcAIyIO k flth BetsptWn Of MeXdCo
2.    From this perspective, the costs correspond to the project costs, wbich, as is the norm
in economic analysis, are expressed in constant terms (price level of October, 1993). Given
the relative openness of the Mexican economy, the project costs have been taken as economic
costs free of distortions. The basic premises of the analysis are the following:
(a) The FIs are assumed to be procured and installed over a two year period;
however, during the Anst year, only 15 % of the benefits accrue. This increases t 60%
during the second year and to 100% the third year.
(b) Although the expected lie of the FLs is 10,000 hours, for the purposes of the
analysis it is assumed conservatively that they will last only 8,760 hours.
(c) The incandescent lights that would be replaced by the FLs are assumed to have a
life of 750 hours and, on the basis of the prevailing local market conditions, to cost about
US$0.32.
(d) Energy losses in the Mexican power system amount to 18%, while capacity losses
at peak time are 22%. These figures include losses in generation, transmission and
distribution.
(e) Studies carried out by CFE show that the peak coincidence factor for the use of
FLs in the residential sector is 0.82 when they are used four hours daily, and 0.7 when used
two hours daily.
(f) Based on prQfQxma quotations received by CFE, the average cif prce of the PIs
has been taken as US$8. The additional indirect costs, which include all other costs needed
to implement the project, amount to 48% of the direct cost of the FLs.
(g) Based on studies recently completed for CFE by specialized consultants, the long
run marginal costs (LRMC) at the distribution level and during peak hours are US$132.50
per kW/year and US$0.062 per kWh.



Page 2 of 6
3.    Th bnet  f the project f     iom the point of view oaf Mexico are e: (a) the value
of the capcty that need not be added to the system due to the installaion of the FLI; (b) the
value of the energy that will not be generated for the same reason, and (c) the value of the
incandesr + bulbs that will not be installed. The capacity and energy savings are valued at
their LRMC. The cost coresponds to the proement and installation of the FLs, including
all the indirect costs needed to implement the project. Assuming that the FLs are used on
average four hours daily, that the cost is as estimated, and on the basis of the above
mentioned assumptions the calculated internal rate of return is 135%.
4.    A risk analysis was performed considering two risk fotors: wariations in project cost
and the number of hours that the FLs are used. The different events and their associated
probabilities are as follows:
Cost wmlated e
a. Tbe cost is as esfimated                 60%
b. There is a cost ovrun of 20%             25%
c. There is a cost ovrun because
10% of the FIsf il and must be
replaced annually                        10%
d. There is a cost underrun of 20%          5%
T$me of usage related event &mbakility
g. FLs are used four hours daily            50%
h. FLs are used two hours daily             50%
5. The iternal rate of eurn (IRR) calculation for each combination of events and the
cumulative distribution function (CDF) are the following:
Combined          Combined
=                 E~mb"iliR AU
d&g                3%                       189%          3%
a&g               30%                       135%         33%
c&g                5%                       132%         38%
d&h                3%                       111%         40%
b&g                13%                      84%          53%
a&h               30%                       83%          83%
c&h                5%                       83%          88%
b&h                13%                      56%         100%



Page 3 of 6
PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION FUNCTION OF IRRs
NATIONAL PERSPECTIVE
IRR U
--  -  --  - -  -            - --  -  -   -- -
2.5  325  31.6 40   52.6   Mel  6W.5  1O
6.   The epxpted value of the economic IRR is 101 %, while the Cumulative Distribution
Function (CDF) vs the MRR shows that with a probability of 83% percet the IRR will equal
or exceed 83%. FurthermoreM in all cases it wil excee 56%. Clearly, the project is very
attractve for Mcadco and its intemal rate of return is very robust.
Econonie Aua13si frm the 1Epectfv of CME
7.   In order to estimate the economic benefit for CEB, the FL distribution among the
different cutomer clase must first be detemiined. The sales progmam envisioned by CFE
is be the folowing:
FLs Sold per Customer Category
Categoy    Consumption      Monterre     Guadalajara      ¶lbtal
__ _   per month
Ul         0-25 kWh        86,557        120,120      206,677
U2        26-50 kWh        60,847        83,r-O        144,566
U3        51-75 kWh        98$,555      108,290       206,844
U4        76-100 kWh      124,266       133,770       258,035
US        101-200 kWh     331,659       318,500       650,160
U6         Lt0l kWh       155,118        145,600      300,717
IOTAL                       857____________8000  910,000  1,767,000
.                 



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
8.   The number of customers, average monthly consumption per customer class and
applicable energy charges are as follows:
Cate-  Consumers    Consumers   Average         Average      Energy
gory   Guadalajara    Monterrw     Consumption   Consump-    Charge
Guadalajara   tion Monter-  US$/
rey          kWh.
Ul       74,830       55,451        10 kWh       6 kWh        0.02
U2       52,037       39,035       41 kWh        37 kWh       0.03
U3       67,888       63,038       70 kWh        61 kWh       0.03
U4       83,323       79,629       87 kWh        88 kWh       0.04
US      199,908       212,799      127 kWh       143 kWh      0.04
U6       90,581       99,333       284 kWh      464 kWh       0.14
9.   The assumptions for the analysis from the point of view of CFE are the same as those
lied in paragraph 2 above; however, an additional factor must be included in this case. lb
mae the zect atractve to the participants, and to share withthem the benefits of the
project, CFE has decided to introduce a rebate in the progrm. On average, the magnitude
of this rebate amounts to 63% of the total cost of the FLs, which includes all indirect costs
Of implementing the ILUMEX project.
10.  i this analysis, the benefits to CFE are the capacity that need not be installed and the
enegy that will not be genated, wlued at their LRMC. The cost is given by the rebate to
be absorbed by CFE and by the foregone income, as the energy saved by the L! will not be
consumed by the participants. In order to reflect the situation as perceived by CFE, this
energy is valued at what CFE charges its consumersm The rate of return to be calculad
therefore coesponds to a fnancial internal rate of return.
11. As in the previous case, a risk analysis was conducted, but there is now an additional
risk fic  as the participation of the different categories of consumers might be different
than that anticipated by CFE. I\i* different events have been included in the risk analysis to
account for consumer participation, as follows:
Consumer participation related events    Probability
e. Participation is as exected by CFE     50%
f. Only consumers in categories U4, US
and U6 participate                      50%



.ANNEX v
Page S of 6
12.   When it is assumed that only consumers in categories U4, U5 and U6 participate, it
has also been assumed that the FLs originally assigned to customers in categories U1, U2
and U3 are distributed among categories U4, U5 and U6. For this purpose, it has been
assumed that 10% of the FLs originally assigned to other categories are now sold to
customers in category U4, and another 10% to customers in category U5. The rest, 80%, is
sold to customers in category U6.
13. An intemal rate of return (IRR) calculation was prepared for each combination of events
with the following results:
Combined           Combined
Event              Probability       IB.          CD
d&e&g              2%                 114%          2%
d&e&h              2%                 90%           4%
a&e&g              21%                86%          25%
c&e&g              4%                 83%          28%
d&f&g               1 %               71%          29%
d&M&h               1%                71%          30%
a&e&h              21%                70%          51%
c&e&h              4%                 69%          54%
b&e&g              9%                 56%          63%
af&h               9%                 55%          72%
a&f&g              9%                 54%          81%
c&f&g              2%                 53%          82%
c&f&h              2%                 51%          84%
b&e&h              9%                 48%          93%
b&f&h              4%                 38%          96%
b&f&g              4%                  32%         100%
PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION FUNCTION OF IRRs
C F E PZESPEClI1IE
IRR Z
1---x
6   ----------------   =   ~~
1.8  3.5  ;0  30.     ".0  2.8    82.3   22.   ff.3  M
COF X



AWNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
14.   The epeted value of the IRR is 66%, while the Cumulative Distribution Function
(CDF) vs the ItR shows that with a probability of 81% percent the IRR will equal or exceed
54%. Furthermore, in all cases it will eed 32%. Quite clearly, the project is very
attiactive for CFE, even assuming a rebate of 63% of the total cost of the FLs, and its
internal rate of return is very robust.
Economic Anall  from the &Wspective of the Participant.
15.  In this case, the benefits to the participants are the energy that will be saved by the
FLs and therefoe not consumed or paid for by the participants, as well as the value of the
incandescent bulbs that the participants will replace with FLs. The cost is given by the
portion of the total cost of the FL (37%) that wil be borne by the participamts, financed over
24 montha In order to rflect the situation as perceived by the participants, the energy
saved is valued at what CFE charges its consumers. The rate of return to be calculated
therefre corresponds to a financial internal rate of retum.
16. As in the previous cases, a risk analysis was conducted which included the risk factor
related to the participation of the different categories of consumers. The analysis was carried
out for the participants as a group. This understates the IRR for those in the higher
consumption groups and overstates it for those in the lower consumption groups. However,
since the IRR is so high, there is no need to refine the analysis. Infact, the lowest ERR
calculated was 151% and it corresponded to event b&e&h.
17.   The lRRs br the rest of the evnts are even higher and there not listed here. It is
clear that under the wrst case scenario, the IPR for the participants as a group is 151% and
this event has a probability of only 8.75%. Therefore, with a probability of 91.25% the IRR
will be even greater. It can be therefore said that the ILUMEX project is very attractive for
the partcipant as a group and that this is so under all events considered in the analysis.



4
Page 1 o 3
XIIE ZCMCY2 LIGMIING ?TU            RO
1.    The Proet's benefits for th environment include the reducdon of emissions of green
house gases (GIHGs), methane and CO2, as well as other cotaminants sucw as SO% and NO1.
The Proect will also help deae  the volume of particles in he air and the volume of coal
ashes produced by the coal-fired thermal power stations Some of the Prject benefits, such
as the reduction in SO2, NO,, partculat and ash accme to the local enionment, whfle
others, su as the reduction of GHGs (CO2 and methane) have globa repcussions.
How , eve local effect might have inm  nal consequences if ty o     in the
neighborhood of internional borders Such is the case of acid rain, which might fall on a
neighbonng country or might fall in the drainage area of nvers that later drain mto rvers or
lales that sjmte, or run through, two or more countries.
2.    lb quantify the benefits to the environment, CFE drew on the work recently
completed by their consultants, UlTESA of Spain, who eWluated the ctminants emitted
by CFE's eight thmal pwr  stions, among others, NO,, SO2 and particulate in the alL
For the GHGs, GPE used typical figures povided in the Feasiblity Study for the ILUMEX
project prepared by another consultant, the Interational Institute for Energy Consevation,
MIC. Wth these figures, CFE simulated the operation of the sstem asming that the load
in Money and Guadalajara is reduced because of the installation of the FLs; a load
reduction in these two cities will affect mainly the power stations nearby the two cities,
including a tmal power station near Montemy which has emissions above the level
prouced by the remainig seven power stations.
3.    On the basis of UEs work, IIEC's figures and CFEs own load dispatch
simulation, the annual reduction of different contaminants due to the ILUMEX project has
been caluated by CFE. This resulted in an annual reduction of CO2 equal to 118,000 tons,
while those of SO% and NO, would reach 3,000 and 205 tons, mspectively. Finally, the
reduction in particulate and methane will be 200 and 250 tns, respectively. These calcula-
tions are based on replacing 1.7 million incandescent light bulbs with FLs, on an average use
of four hours dafly for each FL and on energy losses of 18%.
4.    The total direct emission reductions attributable to the Project is rather robust to
changes in Project parameters. Delays in the replacement of failed FLs and the use of the
FLs for less than 4 hours a day will only delay the emission reductions, but the total benefits
will be the same as long as the useful life of the FLs is not afected. In addition tothe
emission reductions that will result directly from the Project, there will be an indirect benefit
due to the "free driver effect" (induced sales of FLs caused by the Project). However, over
the longer term, there will also be behavior adjustments by the consumers, which could lead
to diminished emission reductions. For example, consumers might decide to install FLs with
a greater lighting level than the incandescent bulb that they replaced. It is also not clear that



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
aftr the FLI ech the end of their useful life the consumers will replace them with other
FLs purchase at full cost (which howver will almost certainly be lower in real terms than
that preiAng in the market tody as tfie use of these bulbs becomes more widespread in
Mexico and elsewhere). Finally, the fuel mix of the Mexican thermal power stations is
likely to chne  in the future towards fuel with less carbon content due to local
environmental considerations. Given the uncertainty surrounding the longer term effects,
they have not been incorporated in the analysis pesented herein.
5.    The emnomic analysis of the ILUMX project presented in Annex 3 shows that it is
very attractive even if its environmental benefits are not considered. Therefore, it could be
expected that it should be implemented by the local beneficiaries. There are, however,
several           and institutional barriers to the diffusion of the FL technology for
residential use, which the ILUNEX project will contribute to overcome. The most important
of these barriers are: i) lack of information about the benefits of the FLs, ii) high initial
investments, and ii) investment constraints imposed on CRE for macroeconomic reasons. or
these reasons, the participation of the GEF and other donors is essential to obtain the
reductions of GHGs and the other benefits such as the reduction of local contamination and
the dissmination of energy efficient technology.
6.    Although there is no consensus on how to evaluate the economic benefits of reducing
GHGs and other contaminants, Data Resources Inc., (DRI) has estmated the cost per ton of
CO2 to stabi  emissions at their 1988 level in the year 2000, reduce them by 10 % in 2010
and by 20 % in 2020 in seveal OECD countries'. These costs are in addition to axes that
have already been put into effect by the countries concerned. The costs estimated by DRI in
1989 US$ per ton of C% for the years 1995 and 2000 are the following:
UnitdStates                    9                 33
Canada                         9                 39
Japan                         43                110
Australia                     20                 55
Germany                       30                 80
France                        38                 95
Italy                         22                 54
UK                             7                 20
Sweden                         6                 16
Spain                         50                121
Netherlands                    18                46
Greece                        27                 69
1. 'Eonomic Effects of Using Carbon Abxes to Reduce CO, Enmssions in Maior OECD Countries, Data
Resoues Inc (MccGmw-ill, 1992).



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
5. These figures would have to be converted to 1993 US$ in order to fUlly capture the
benefit of the ILUMEK project. However, even in 1989 prices and based on the aerage of
the 1995 figure (US$23 per ton), the annual benefits of CO2 reduction attributable to the
project wwld have a value of US$2.7 million. This figure will almost triple if the average
crresponding to the figures for year 2000 (US$61) is used. These figures are conservative
in light of sdies carried out in Norway which have estimated (in 1990 prices) the cost to
stabilize the Norwegian CO2 emissions at their 1989 level in the year 2000 at approximately
US$184 per ton. That the benefits are conservative is also demonstrated by calculations
prepared for the OECD countries which show that to stabilize the CO2 emissions of fte
OECD countries as a whole will about US$60 per ton.
6.    Another measure of the vaue of the reduction of the GHGs can be obtained by using
the carbon taxes applied in some countries as a proxy to value the benefit of the reduction.
There are nominal and effective CO2 tax rates in effect in 1993 for the Nordic countries; the
effective tax ate is defined as an average tax paid on all emissions, and is lower than the
nominal tax rate due to exemptions for some sectors and fuels. The applicable aes in US$
per ton of CO2 are2:
COIUNTY           1993 NONQ.AL RATE    1993 BFFECilVE RATE
Denmark                 15                        7
Fmland                   4                       4
Norway                  56                        20
Sweden                  55                        33
EC Proposal             25
if the aveae of the nominal rtes (US$26) is used, the annual savings would be valued at
US$3 million; if the average of the effective rates is used (US$16), the figure is US$1.9
million. Regardiess of the figure used, the benefits resulting from the reduction of CO2 are
significant and as a minimum can be estimated at US$1.9 million annually.
7.    There are additional benefits attributable to the project, particularly those reltd to
the reductin of the local envronmental degradation. However, no figures are available to
assign a monetary vlue to these benefits, although they are clearly important. It is expecoed
that as Mexico in general, and CFE in particular, continue width their efforts to reduce SQ
and NO, emissons, relevant cost figures will become available. The benefits of reducing
these emissions can then be calculated as part of the evaluation to be carried out as the
Project is completed.
2. OECD Environment Monograph 78/1993: 'A CoMogson of Carbon MIxes in Selected OECD Comtries'.



ANNBX 
Paga I of 4
HIGH       CENli FICIECYHTaGING PRQlEC
PEMect Monitolb  andvlato
1.    As explained in Annex 1, Pject Onization, Project monirng and
evaluation will mosty be under the esponsibiity of the Project manage  of the
Implementng Units at both cite  The Project Coordination Unit, PCU, at CFEs
Headquarters will supervise these activities and propose fte adjustments as needed.
Given the spealid nate of        acdvies,    Project manags and the PCU
will be assisted by quali9ed consu!ants in the areas of markAing, canvassing and
inteviewing, as uell as in Project evaluation. The terms of rfence of these
consultants can be found in Annex 7.
2.    Project eWluation will gauge te achievement of the std goals of the
Pect, including energy savigs and the so-called Ofree driver' effect, which
measus the sales by commercal retailers induced by the Project. It is envisioned
as a continwus process, which will also provide infation to make adjustments in
Project iementation, particularly with regards to marketing strtgies, to ensure
Project success.
3.    Base Line Surv    Project monitoring and control will start with a st,i
surve three months before the sale of FLs bens, and this will consdtute the
'base line" for Project monitoring and evluation. This survey will determine prices
and monthly sal  of incandescent bulbs and FLs, including their type and charac-
tsics. It will also detetrine t  number of units aailable in warehouses and in
the stores of bulk and  Ail sWpliers, as well as the number of suppliers and their
sales volume. A similar survey will be caried out at the end if thcewt and this
will prvide the information required to estimate the "free driver- effect
4.    Sale ad kapign=  Satis on Sury  As part of the Project monitoring
and control, the following activities will take place three months after PWject stat.
and again a year after that:
(a) an evaluation will be carried out of the FL sales made in CFE's
agencies in Guadalajara and Monteney. Its purpose will be to determine any
shortcomings in the sales process, the need for additional training for the sales
force, storage and inventory controls for the FLs, information systems and coordi-
nation with PAESE and FIDE, if needed. A similar evaluation would be undertkn
three months after the st of the door-to-door sales process. In both cases, the
1.   It is assumed June of 1994 as the date to s  sales of CPLs and Pzujeot implemenion.



ANNEX S
Pae 2 of 4
evaluation will be based on inteviews and conversations with the Project staff in
both cities
(b) a survey will be made among Project participants The survey
will be used to obtain the following inlbDmation: (i) number and types of FLs
installed, place where they were instlled, the charcteristics of the incandescent
bulbs tbat they replaced and number of hours of use of the FLs; (ii) lighting level
and quality, start-up time of the FL, prices, financing terms and how usefdul the
participant found the infrmation provided by the sales pe¢sonnel; (iii) reasons for
selecting the type of FL chosen; (iv) customers' perception of the savings realized,
reasons for purchasing Es, famfliarity with FLs before Project start and knowledge
gained since, purchases of FLs made prior to Project start, independent of the
Project and probable future purchases; quality of the customer service provided by
the Project, and (v) socio-ecoomic haractisics of the participants (type and area
of the home, number of family members, income, age, etc).
(c) a survey will also be carried out among non-participants in the
Project. The aim of this survey will be to determine the reasons why they have not
participated, together with the socio-economic information of the non-participants.
S.    Survey on HoQsgf Use gf  Ls. Six months and ei8hteen months after
etstarta   a survey will be carried out to detmine the number of hours per day
that patcipants use the FLa  [b this end, metering equipment will be instaled in a
sected sample of paiipants to record the hours during which the FLs are used
every day. This will allow the Project to determine the savings accruing to those
partcipants, as we as the peak coincidence fictorsm  On the basis of this
information, as well as studies canied out to detenine the consumption in kWh
before and after the installation of the FLs of a random sample of participants, it
will be possible to calculate the benefits to the participants, CPE, Mexico and the
environment.
6.    Md-1en 2Pre  Imme o Review, On the basis of the above
mentioned surveys, a comprehensive mid-term Meet imalm-twon review will
be caried out with the parcipation of the Bank, not later than June 30, 1995. The
results of the surveys will be discussed and appropriate measures will be taken as a
result. In particuar, if the target sale level mentioned in the Operating Guideines
have not been reached, the Bank and CFE will discuss and agree on whether the
ILUMEX project should de discontinued or modified. If the tagets have not been
reached, but it is decided that the Project should continue, then remedial measures to
improve sales will be adopted. These measures might include, among others,
epanding and/or training the sales fore, improving the adveising campaign,
resorting to setftng up temporary and portable sales stands in selected neighborhoods
and, as a last resort, proceed with a door-to-door sales effort.



ANNEX S
Page 3 of 4
7.    End of Project Review. Upon Project completion, expected for the end of
1997, an end-of-Project review will be undertaken with the participation of the
Bank. During this review, Project results wil be critically evaluated and the lessons
learned in ILUMEX will be incorporated in any new project that may be carried out
by CFE. Furthermore, during the review meeting, agreement will be reached on the
format, content, participants and date of a seminar to disseminate the results of the
ILUMEX project. It is expected that the lessons learned will be disseminated among
a sizeable international audience.
8.    Final Project Evaluation. Six months after Project completion, a final
ewaluation report will be prepared and submitted to the Bank. This rport will
include the results of a survey to be carried out among the participants to determine
how satisfied they were with the FLs, how many FLs fiiled and had to be replaced,
whether they remained where they were originally installed, whether more FLs were
purchased through commercial retailers and other similar data.
9.    MoniXQrgnand Ew1lat  Indicatm: The attached table shows the goals
and dates agreed with the Bank to monitor and evaluate the Project.



Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Events
hAM 94    Dwe4    jawe 5    De95  rJa ne           Da: S9    JI.9       D:97       fm
Accumulated Sales of CFLs
Guadatlam                                      91,000    Sl8AW     546,00D    7730     876,000
Mo"                                            K000    300,000    514,000    728,000    824,000
Tatal Pt*ct                                   177,000    618,000   1,O060000   1,501000  1,700,000
Consultants
maSq                               Hkned   AA                    AAAA                                     AA
Prmotion and AwvthIng             Hind      AAAA       AAAA
Mo°trlu and EBaation              Hied                 AAAA                AAAA                 AAA                 AMAA
LaboinloiyTestia                   Hhed     AAAA       AAAA      AAAA      AAAA
Reports
gm cLine Surve                              XXmO-                                                                   XxWC
Sales ad Patidpanb Sation Suwq                        XOOO
HondtUee t&vqy                                         mOK
Fi-T  PcV mentiot Reiw U                               XX
&mMuffteRep-R-e-                                                                                XXX-C
P^ ertek4aaPVRx                    .xx                 X          )         xx       X=         xx        X=OC      XW
An OC  VODO xm                                                                         )                  xx
_        _        _       _.              _                                   _                   _                   _n A
Notes: AAAA: Consultants' Actiils                %)OOt: Report due this semester             11  Meeting In August1995



ANNEX 6
Pagp 1 of 12
NICO
HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTIG PILOT PRQ.
Proect Operating Guidelines1
A. Project Objectives
1.    The ILUMEX project will replace approximately 1.7 million incandescent bulbs with
high efficiency fluorescent lamps (FLs) in the homes of CFE's residential consumers in the
cities of Monter  and Guadalajara. For the purpose of the Project, "PLs" includes compact
fluorescent light bulbs and circular fluorescent bulbs. The Project will help CFE postpone the
installation of additional generating capacity and save fuel that would otherwlse be necessary to
produce the energy that will be saved by the FLs. lb the participants, the Project will produce
savings in their electricity bills, as well as savings in incandescent bulbs that they would
otherwise have to purchase. The Project will also have important benefits for the environment,
as it will reduce the conton that would otherwise be produced in order to generate the
energy that the FLs will save.
B. Project F1acng
2.    The Project will be financed with an equivalent of US$10 million to be contributed by
CFE, a grant of SDR 7.3 million from the GET, and a grant of NKr 20.25 million from the
Kingdom of Norway. In addition, the participants of the Project will also contribute thmugh
the purchase of PLU
C Objective of the Operating Guideines
3.    The objective of these Opeating Guidelines (OG), is to provide guidance to the staff that
will be rsponsible for Project implementation. It is eqpected that these 00 will contribute
significantly to meeting the Project goals and targets Nevertheless, it is also understood that
unanticipated circumstances might appear during Project implementation; therefre, the 00
must be understood a dynamic document that will ewlve through fiedback received from the
Implementing Units (JUs). However, any major changes would have to be satisfiaory to the
Ban
4.    Iitially, the ILUME project will cover only the cities of Montey and Guadalajara,
but at a later stage may be extended to the entire states of Nuevo Leon and Jalisco if the
demand for FLs in the two cities does not develop - nredicted. lb implement the Project,
Implementing Units will be created in Monterry ariu Guadalajara  These IlUs will be financed
with funds deposited in two trust accounts ('FIdeicomisos') that will be opened in BANOBRAS.
The operation of these trust accounts will follow the rules that legally apply to the "Fideicom-
1.  Ibs An  is an absum of the document 'Op miig Gidelin' (-Gufas de Opeai6n del Pwyaito)
Weed with CPE dug aqatons of Xt gmat.



ANXG
Page 2 of 12
isosu; in particular, the funds will only be used for the implementation of the ILUMEX project
and will be subject to strict auditing procedures.
IL OrganIation for the Jmplementatson of ILUlll
5.    As may be seen in the chart on page 4 and 5 of Annex 1, Project oranization involves
staff in CFE"s Headquarters as well as in the cities of Guadalajara and Monter. lb set
policy and supervise compliance with Project objectives, a Project Coordination Unit, PCU, has
been set up in CFE's Headquarters in Mexico City. The Head of the Project Coordination
Unit, or Project Coordinator, is the gubrent de Baluacion (Deputy Manager for Project
Evaluation) of the Subdireccion -d -"stribucion (Vice Directorate for Distribution). Other
members of the Unit include other key staff of that Subdireion, a representative of PAESE, a
representative of the engineering staff of CFE (responsible for the preparation of the technical
specifications of the FLs) and a consultant speialized in economic analysis of projects.
6     The main fimctions of the PCU are the following: (a) to support thr Distribution
Divisions in Jalisco and Golfo Norte (which serve Guadalajama and Monterrey, respectively) as
well as the Managers of the conesponding IUs; (b) supervise Project implementation; (c)
propose the strategy and studies (marketing, technical and economic) to moniUtr and evaluate
Project results; (d) based on the reports submitted by the Managers of the IUs, prepare the
progress reports needed during Project implementation; (e) procure the goods and sevices that
wil be required by the ILUMEX project; (f) review and update the Opeting Guidelines for the
Project (magor amendments have to be satisfictory to the World Bank); (g) inDrm the
authorities of CFE (through the Central Advisory Committee mentioned in the next paragrph)
of the advances in Project implementation; and (h) recommend shifting of funds among the two
FILUMEX if the Project in any of the two cities is seriously lagging.
7.    CFE will superie the Project through a high lee Centmal Advisoy Committee whose
members will be the Deputy Director for Distribution, the Directr General of FIDE, the
Distribution Manager of CFE and the Commercial Manager of CFE. The President of the
Committee will be the Deputy Director for Distribution. The functions of the Committee will
include the following: (a) appoint the members of the PCU; (b) approve the strategy for Project
implementation developed by the PCU; (c) approve the details of the operating rles of two
trust accounts to be opened in BANOBRAS to finance the two IUs; (d) appoint the presidents of
the Technical Committees of each of the two Implementing Units, and (e) meet periodically to
review the progress reports prepared by the PCU and recommend those measures that it deems
necessary to reach the goals of the Project.
8.    CFE will also provide technical support to the Project. The specifications for the
procurement of the FLs have been prepared by CFEs Engineering Department in consultation
with CFEs Procurement Office. CFE will also be responsible for the bidding process and the
procurement of the FLs, which will then be handed over to the two IlUs in Guadalajara and
Monterey. Finally, for deferred terms sales, CFEs Service Centers at Guadalajar and
Monterrey will also be responsible for including in the customers electricity bill the amount
financed to purchase the FLs.



ANNEX-6
Page 3 of 12
9.   In order to implement the Project, two decentralizLd JiUs wiU be established, one in
Guadalajara and one in Montenrey. lb ensure the administrative and financial independence
needed for the expeditious implementation of the ILUMEX project, these units will be financed
through two trust accounts ("Fideicomisos") opened in BANOBRAS. All funds requized for the
operation of the lUs, as well as the payments made by the participants who purchasf the FLs on
credit, will be deposited in these trust accounts. The funds shall only be used for the purposes
of the ILUMEX project, in the two Distribution Divisions that serve Guadajara and Monterrey
(Jalisco and Golfo Norte, respectively); the initial efforts will be concentrated in the two cities.
10.  The administaion of each IU will be the responsibility of a lbchnical Committee whose
members will be: (a) the General Manager of the Regional Distribution Division (Jalisco or
Golfo Norte); (b) the Deputy Distribution Manager of the same Division; (c) the Deputy
Manager of the Commercial Division of the same Region; (d) the Head of PAESE of the same
Division, and (e) a representative of BANOBRAS who wuld be a non-voting member of the
Committee. The President of the Committee will be the General Manager of the Regional
Distrbution Division.
11.   The functions of the lbchnical Committee will include the following: (a) approve: (i) the
annual program and budget; (ii) the agreement to be signed between BANOBRAS and CFE
authorizing the latter to collect the amounts owed by the customers for the credit sale of the
FLs, (b) supervise Project implementation, and (c) monitor the flow of funds for the PriJect,
including CFE's contibutions. The Committee will meet at least once a month.
12.   lo benefit from the local expertise that is available, the Technical Committee might
decide to establish a local Advisory Committee, whose members would include representatves
of: (a) the State (Monterrey or Guadalajara) Energy Conservation Commission; (b) the
National Chamber of Contractors; (c) the National Chamber of Commerce; (d) the National
Chamber of Electrical Equipment Manufacturers; (e) the local University or Tbchnical Institute,
and (f) FIDE. This Committee would meet when convened by the lbchnical Committee and
will act strictly as an advisory group.
13. The day-to-day administration of each Implementing Unit fund will be the responsibility
of a Project Manager. The Project Manager will be appointed by the Technical Committee, and
he will then proceed to select the staff needed for Project implementation. The staff will
include at least the following: (a) an administrative manager; (b) a commercial manager; (c) a
warehouse manager; (d) sales supervisors (to supervise sales at CFEs service centers as well as
door-to-door sales); (e) sales agents and (f) secretaries. The administrative and commercial
managers and the remaining staff will be appointe. directly by the Project Manager.
14.  The main functions of the Project Manager will include the following: (a) propose for
approval by the Technical Committee: (i) the annual program and budget for the Implementing
Units, and (i) the agreement to be signed between BANOBRAS and CFE authorizing the latter
to collect the amounts owed by the customers for the financing of the FLs; (b) monitor Project
implementation progress and propose, and when necessary take appropriate measures to ensure



ANNEx- 6
POP 4 of 12
Project success; (c) prepre all reports specified in the Operating Guidelines to keep all
interested parties informed of the progress in Project implementation; (d) prepare procedures for
the storage, distribution, sale and installation of FLs; (e) answer customer's queries and, based
on the Operating Guidelines, settle complaints related to the performance of the Fs; (f)
authorize payr. ents to contrators that provide marketing, evaluation and installation services for
the Project, and (g) appoint the administrative and commercial managers, as well as the rest of
the required staff.
E. FIities and Equipment
15. Both lUs will rent suitable office space in Guadalajara and Monterrey and will purchase
sales stands and office equipment to furnish the offices. CFE will purchase vehicles, computers
and metering equipment for the Project. For accounting purposes, these purchases will be
charged to the account of each IU. The sales stands will be mounted in CFE's Service Centers
in both cities and work space will be provided for a sales agent -lso. Thus, the prospective
participants will find informadon and service in all Service Centers, as wel as in the offlces of
the IUs.
16.   Additional facilities and equipment might be needed if the ILUMEX project is to be
extended to the rest of the Jalisco and Golfo Norte Regions. In this case, the PCU will
authorize the lUs to procure locally the items that might be needed.
17.   Goods and services will be procured by CFE and put at the disposal of the IUs as
needed. This will allow ILUMEX to profit from better prices that result from bulk purchases.
Ihe funds needed for the operation of the IUs will be channeled to the Units through the trust
accounts ("Fideicomisos") opened in BANOBRAS.
18.   Procurement of goods financed by the GET or Norway, i.e. FLs, will be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement of the World Bank. These Guidelines specify
international competitve bidding (ICB) for the procurement of goods.
19.   The IUs will be responsible for keeping and maintaining their own accounting, using
CFE's standard chart of accounts. The PCU and/or BANOBRAS will appoint independent
auditors to audit yearly the IU's accounts, including participants' accounting. After a contract
is signed with a participant, the IU will provide the pertinent information to the corresponding
CRE Distribution Division so that the amounts to be paid bimonthly by the participant can be
included in the electricity bill to be prepared by CFE. CFE will also collect from the
participants and deposit the corresponding amounts paid by the participants in the trust accounts
opened in BANOBRAS.
20.   CFE will provide space in their warehouses in Guadalajara and Monter to store the
FLs prior to their sale to the participants. The storage and control of the FLs while they are in
the warehouses will follow CFE's rules and procedures.



ANNEX 6
Page S of 12
F. Characteristics of the Flu
21. The main characteristics of the FLs specified by CFE will be the fllowing2:
(a) Operating voltage: 120 volts plus/minus ten percent fbr Monterrey, and 127
volts plw/iminus ten percent for Guadalajara.
(b) Efficiency: minimum 47 lumens per watt.
(c) Luminous flux (at 25 degrees Celsius): (ii) 'Type 1: From 750 to 900 lumens;
(iii) Type 2: From 1,000 to 1,200 lumens, and (iv) Type 3: From 1,400 to 1,700
lumens. The luminous flux must be equal or greater than 90% of the nominal
value during 1,000 hours of operation.
(d) Color temperature (degrees Kelvin): (v) Type A: 4,000 to 4,200, and (vi)
Type B: 2,600 to 2,800.
(e) Color Rendering Index: Greater than 80.
(f) Operating life: 10,000 hours.
(g) Power factor: Equal to or greater tan 90%.
(h) Harmonic distortion: Not greater than: (vii) third harmonic: 30%; (viii) fifth
harmonic: 10%; (ix) seventh harmonic: 7%; (x) ninth harmonic: 5%; (xi)
eleventh through forty ninth harmonic: 3%, and (xii) total harmonic distortion:
33%.
(i) [btal length: Not more than 8 inches for all Types.
22.   Each FL will be provided with a thermal overload protection device that will
automatically turn it off in case it overheats and that will automatically turn it back on when it
cools off. The specifications will accept both electronic and electromagnetic ballasts, as well as
a single piece (ballast and lamp integrated in a single unit) or two piece FLs (ballast and lamp
manufactured as two independent units that can be separated and reconnected at will). In case a
two piece FL is quoted, the bidder will guarantee that the complete unit will operat as required
in the specifications.
2. This inflrmation will be updated by the PCU when the contacts for the supply of the FLa have been
awred.



ANNEX-6
Page 6 of 12
23.   The FLs will be purchased through no more than three ICBs, each of approximately 1/3
of the total Project needs. In awarding the contract, both the efficiency of the FLs (measured in
lumens per watt) and the power factor will be evaluated, and a bonus or a penalty will be
applied depending on whether the proposed FLs exceed the specifications or fail to meet them.
The experience gained with the FLs provided in the first ICB will be used to fine tune the
specifications for the procurement of the second lot. For this purpose, the feedback received
from the lUs will be critical.
G. Sales Procedures
24. Sales will be in cash or on credit, for a maximum of six FLs per customer. However,
the PCU might raise this ceiling if it deems that this is necessary to reach the goals of the Pro-
ject. If a customer opts to buy on credit, in order to keep operting costs under control, he
must buy at least the Fls and make a down payment of five Nuevs Pesos per lamp. The
balance will be paid in twelve bimonthly payments, so that the whole cost will be paid in 24
months. The minimum number of FLs to be bought on credit might be lowered if the PCU
deems that this is necessary to meet Project goals
25.   CPE will give the participants in the Project a rebate for each FL purchased. This
rebate will be calculated so that for a customer in category U3 (51 to 75 kWh), the savings in
the electricity bill equal the bimonthly payments that he must make for the purchase of the FL.
Furthermore, the rebate must be such that customers in categories Ul and U2 must be able to
recover the investment they have made in the FLs in a maximum of 24 months. It is esimated
that this results in an aveae rebate of 63% of the ttal cc it of a FL (the
direct cost plus all the other costs necessary to implement the ILUME project). The following
rebates (lamp type in lumens and rebate in Nuevos Pesos) will apply initially but might be
changed from time to time by the PCU:
Type of Lamp         FL 750      FL 1000      FL 1400         Cirular
Rebate (N$)           21.90         19.30        29.80          11.00
26. The FLs will be sold at the sales stands installed in CFE's Service Centers, as well as in
the offlces of the lUs. The PCU may also require that portable sales stands be used in selected
neighborhoods and shopping centers. Furthermore, if conditions so warrant, the PCU will
require that the IUs undertale a door-to-door sales campaign. In all cases, excpt for the door-
to-door campaign, the participants will be responsible for the installation of the FLs in their
home. The participant will be provided, at the moment of purchase, with information that will
allow to select the best place to install the FL (that is to say, the installation place that will
produce the lagest savings). During the door-to-door campaigns, the FLs will be installed for
the customer by the lUs.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 12
27. A contract will be signed with each participant in the Project. A draft contract will be
prepared by the PCU and sent to each IU prior to the start of sales. A requisite for partici-
pation in the program will be that the person be a consumer in good standing with CFE and that
presents the pertinent personal identification and information at the moment of contract signa-
ture. The bimonthly payments will be calculated on the balance using an interest rate to be
fixed quarterly by the PCU, equal to the rate for the Government CETES prevailing in the last
day of the previous quarter. The interest rate for the participant will remain fixed during the
duration of the contract. The contracts will also specify that the program will replace, free of
charge to the pardcipant, any FL that fails within two years of contract signature. In order to
receive a replacement unit, the participant will be required to return the failed FL.
28.   Since CFE will not be able to disconnect service to a customer that pays his electricity
bill but does not make his bimonthly payment for the FL, CFE will promptly notify the IU so
that they cii investigate the situation and take appropriate measures. If a participant wishes to
abandon the Project because he feels that he is not receiving the expected benefits, the IU will
investigate the sitation and attempt to convince the participant to condnue in the Pioject. If
this tuns out to be impossible, the IU will retrieve the FL and return it to its stock of FLs.
29.  The bimonthly payments received for the sale of the FLs will be deposited in the
pertinent account opened in BANOBRAS. These funds might be used to strt a new project
after ILUMEX is completed. The details of a possible subsequent project will be communicated
by the PCU to the lUs.
H. Advertisemeut
30.   The PCU will retain the services of a speciaizd firm to prepare an adverdsement
campaign prior to the start of sales. Although the ILUMEX project will be restricted to
residential consumers, the advertisement campaign will also be directed to commercial and other
consumers, who will be directed to purchase their FLs in normal retail outlets. The rUs must
be piepared to provide additional information to these consumers and to direct them to seral
retail outlets. The PCU will also hire a firm to manage the advertisement campaign, and
provision will be made to fine tune the campaign on the basis of the feedback received from the
IUs.
L Project Goals and Supervision
31.   The monthly goals for sales for the first semester of Project implementation (second
semester of 1994) per category of consumer and type of FL are listed in the table below. The
semi-annual overall goals are also shown.



ANNEX6
Page 8 of 12
Ja    r)sco (GadalaaM):
Category                 FL 750      FL 1000     FL 1400     Circular
Ul (0-25 kWh)             6,400       2,500       1,900       3,700
U2 (26-50 kWh)            4,500       1,900       1,300       2,500
U3 (51-75 kWh)            5,800       2,400       1,700       3,300
U4 (76-100 kWh)           7,100       3,000       2,100       4,100
US (101-200 kWh)         13,900       5,800       4,100       8,000
U6 ( 201 kWh)            2,200        900         600        1,300
ITtal                    39,900       16,500      11,700     22,900
Nuev Leon (Montery:
Category                 FL 750      FL 1000     FL 1400      Circular
Ul (0-25 kWh)             4,100       2,700       1,300       2,700
U2 (26-50 kWh)            2,900       1,900        900        1,900
U3 (51-75 kWh)            4,600       3,100       1,500       3,100
U4 (76-100 kWh)           5,900       3,900       1,900       3,900
US (101-200 kWh)         12,900       8,500       4,100       8,600
U6 L  201 kWh)            2,000       1,400        700        1,400
Ibtal                    32,400      21,500       10,400    _-21,600
Overall Project Goals
Semester Ending        Monthly Sales    Accumulated Sales
December 94                  29,500             177,000
June 95                      73,500             618,000
December 95                  73,700           1,060,000
June 96                      73,500           1,501,000
December 96                  33,000           1,700,000
32. By the time of the Mid-term Project Implementation Review (June of 1995), a total of
618,000 FLs should have been sold in the two cities; if the sales are below 70% of this goal,
the World Bank may decide to cancel the balance of the two grants.



Page 9 of 12
33. The IUs will monitor sales monthly and shall inform the PCU of their monthly sales
level. Remedial measures, if needed, will be taken quarterly. If in either city, overall (i.e., for
all customer classes and for all types of lamps) bimonthly sales fall 20% or more with respect
to Project targets, one or a combination of the following measures will be taken:
(a) Improve adverdsement campaign;
(b) Expand sales force or improve its trainng;
(c) Resort to sales using portable stands in selected neighborhoods and shopping
centers;
(d) Resort to door-to-door sales;
(e) Resort to door-to-door sales and increase rebate.
If after taIng a particular measure, it is found in a subsequent review that the situation did not
improve, then complementary measures from this set shall be implemented.
J. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
34.   The Project Coordination Unit, PCU, at CFEs Headquarters will supervise these
activities and propose the adjustments as needed. Given the specialized nature of these
activities, the Project managers and the PCU will be assisted by qualified consultants in the
areas of markeing, canvassing and interviewing, as well as in Project eWaluation.
35.   Project evaluation will gauge the achievement of the stated goals of the Project,
including energy savings and the so-called "free driver" effect, which measures the sales by
commercial retailers induced by the Project. It is envisioned as a continuous process, which
will also provide information to maie adjustments in Project implementadon, particularly with
regrds to marketing strategies, to ensure Project success.
36.   Project monitoxing and control will therefo  start with a sales survey three months
befoire the sale of FLs begins. This survey will determine local prices and monthly sales of
incandescent bulbs and FLs, including their type and chactsics. It will also detrmine the
number of units available in warehouses and in the stores of bulk and retail suppliers, as wel as
the number of suppliers and their sales volume. A similar survey will be carried out at the end
of the Project and this will provide the information required to estimate the "free driver" effect.
The PCU will request manufactrers and importers of FLs and incandescent light bulbs to
proide information concerning the sales of these products in the Mexican market, as well as in
the regions of interest.
37.   Both the lUs and the PCU will monitor Project implemenion and will continuously,
and in close coordination, take appropriate measures to ensure compliance with Project goals.



ANNEX-6
Pag 10 of 12
The remedial measures will result from the supervision of Project implementation, but will also
dmw on the information provided by periodic reviews of Project implementation.
38. As part of the Project monitoring and control, the following activities will take place
three months after Project start, and again a year after that:
(a) an evaluation will be caried out of the FL sales made in CFE's service centers in
Guadalajara and Monterr. Its purpose will be to determine shortcomings in the sales process,
the need for additional taiining for the sales force, storage and inventory controls for the FLs,
information systems and coordination with PAESE and FIDE, if needed. A similar evaluation
would be undertaken three months after the start of the door-to-door sales process. In both
cases, the evaluation will be based in interviews and conversations with the Project staff in both
cities.
(b) a survey will be made among Project participants. The survey will be used to obtain
the following information: (xiii) number and types of FLs installed, where they were installed,
the characteistics of the incandescent bulbs that they replaced and nuinber of hours of use of
the FLs; (xiv) lighting level and quality, start-up time of the FL, prices, financing terms and
how usefil the participant found the infrmation provided by the sales personnel; (xv) reasons
for selecting the type of FL chosen; (xvi) customer's perception of the savings realized, reasons
for purchasing FLs, familiarity with FLs before Project start and knowledge gained since,
purchases of FLs made prior to Project start, independent of the ?roject and probable future
purchases; quality of the customer service provided by the Projf t, and (xvii) socio-economic
chaactristics of the participants (type and area of the home, amber of family members,
income, age, etc).
(c) a survey will also be carried out among non-participants in the Project. The aim of
this survey will be to determine the reasons why they have not participated, together with the
socio-economic information of the non-participants.
39. Six months after Project start, and a year later, a survey will be carried out to determine
the numi-.r of hours per day that participants use the FLs. lb this end, metering equipment
will be itistalled in a selected sample of participants to record the hours during which the FLs
are used every day. This will allow the Project to determine the savings accruing to those
participants, as well as the peak coincidence factor  On the basis of this information, as well
as studies carried out to determine the consumption in kWh before and after the insallation of
the FLs of a random sample of participants, it will be possible to calculate the benefits to the
participants, CFE, Mexico and the environment.
40.   On the basis of the above mentioned surveys, a comprehensive mid-term Project
implementation review will be carried out with the participation of the World Bank
approximately one year after Project start. The results of the surveys and the remedial
measures that might have already been implemented will be discussed. In particular, if the
target sale levels have not been reached, the Bank and CFE will discuss and agree on whether



ANNEX 6
Pagp 11 of 12
tne ILUMEX project should continue. If the targets have not been reached, but it is decided
that the Project should continue, then remedial measures to imprve sales will be adopted.
These measures might include, among others, expanding and/or tiRining the sales force,
improving the advertsing campaign, resorting to setting up temporary and portable sales stands
in selected neighborhoods and, as a last resort, proceed with a door-to-door sales effort. A
flow chart has been prepared to illustrate the closed-loop system that will be put in place and is
shown in page 12.
41.   Upon Project completion, an end-of-Project review will be undertaen by the PCU with
the participation of the World Bank. During this review, Project results will be critically
evaluated and the lessons learned in ILUMEX will be incorporated in any new project under-
taken by CFE. Furthermore, during the meeting agreement will be reached on the format,
content, participants and date of a seminar to disseminate to a Mexican and international
audience the results of the ILUMEX project.
42.   Six months after Project completion, a final evaluation report will be prepared by the
PCU and submitted to the financing agencies participating in the Project. Finally, one year
after Project completion, another survey will be carried out among the participants in ILUMEX
to deterine how satisfied they are with the FLs, how many FLs filed and had to be replaced,
whether they remain where they were originaly installed, whether more FLs were purchased
through commercial retailers and other similar data Results of this survey will be made
available to CEE and the World Bank.
43.   lb carry out the evaluation of the results of the Project, CFE will retain specialized
consultants who will certify the evaluation of the results performed by the IUs and the PCU.
K. Project Reporting
44.   The lUs will prepare daily, monthly, quarterly and annual sales reports. They will also
prepare quarterly progress implementation reports using a format specified by the PCU. The
PCU will prepare the half-yearly implementation reports required by the World Bank. The lUs
will also prepare annual reports of their activities, as well as a Project completion report. On
the basis of this information, the PCU will prepare the Project completion report requested by
the World Bank.
L. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
45. The table shown in Annex 5, page 4, includes the goals and dates agreed with the World
Bank to monitor and evaluate the Project.



ANNigX-6
Page 12 of 12
GH_ E;C-ENA LMGErG PUQ.~
FLOW CHAlr OF THIE SALES }ROCESS
LW ¢0e  FDi E{Xl5   t      lN G |At M
[WIMPRO-W VA                Fe =Tl
,er                     EW* ---t
} J ~~~~PO
F-{~~~~CNROH
. .~~&T                    M
- v /~~~~~m wm r"               m
IN  y $as=NmM                            
iNOOMIMOM¢
6 I @fF 
WC 8E   N
h   I--T   '                      _   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
L; ~ ~ ~ ~ 0*00                             ' MW~Q
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aw~%



ANNEX 
Page 1 of4
IHGH E ICIENCY LIGHTbiG PHMIO  %O.lEM
MM  of lie-nSforQ
1.    Consultants will be retined to assist in: (a) Markeing Surveys; 0)
Promotion and Advtsing; (c) Monitoring and ELluaton, and (d) Laboratory
bsting. This Annex prmides a summary of the  rms  of Reference to be used
for hiring the different conslants. The timetable of consultants activities is the
following:
Consultants Ae aities
Consdtant for:           Latest doa
tD Bi            Bgin             F1nish
Marketing Survey           June 94          July 94         April98
Promotion and              June 94          July 94          Ma X95
Advertsng
Monitoring and             June 94          July 94          July 98
Evaluation
Laboratory lbsing          June 94          July 94          June 96
A.. 
2.   In this area, consultants will be hired to assist the PCU and the lUs in
pring and then undertaking the different market surveys required by the
project. The market suveys required by the project are described in detail in
Annex 5 and they include at least the following: (a) a "base line survey* to be
carried out three months prior to project start and which will focus on sales of ELs
and incandescent bulbs prior to project start in the Jalisco and Golf Norte Regions
in genral, with emphasis on Guadalaara and Monterey; (b) three months after
project start and a year later, a survey will be carried out among project
participants to determine how many FLs they purchased, where they were
installed, daily usage, etc; (c) three months after project start and a year later, a
survey will also be done among non-partcipants in the project to detrmine the
reasons why they have chosen not to participate; (d) six months after project start
and a year later, another survey will be underkn to measure (by installing
appropriate measuring equipment) the number of hours and the time of the day that
the FLs are used, and (e) a year after project completion a final survey will be
carried out to deternine how satisfied the participants are with the FLs, their



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
pattern of usage and also to gauge the impact of the project in overall sales in FLs
in both Regions.
3.    The purpose of the surveys is theefold: (a) to measure the "free driver
effect" (the induced sales of FLs produced by the preject); (b) to identify measures
to be tlken during project implementaion to ensure compliance with project goals,
and (c) to calcuae project benefits essentially in terms of energy and capacity
savings and emission reductions. Each survey might contribute to more than just
one of these purposes; however, it might be said that surveys (a) and (e) will be
the basis for calculating the "free driver effect', while surveys (b), (c) and (d) will
aid in determining how well project goals are being attained, and surveys (d) and
(e) will serve as the basis for measuring project benefits
4.    For ach survey, the Consultant shall work closely with the PCU and the
IUs, taining their saff as required. It is expected that the Consultant will act in
an advisory position such that atthe en4 of the project both the PCU and the IUs
wil have developed their own capacity to undertake by themselves this type of
work in the future. The consultans'- .r bilities will indlude at least the
following: (a) establish the basis for selecting a representative sample for the
survey; discuss it and agree it with the PCU; @) proceed to identify the
representaive sample with the assistance of the PCU and the IUs; (c) design the
methodology and the questionnaire toD ey the sample; discuss it and agree it
with the PCU; (d) train, or identify suitable trning facilities, for the staff of the
lUs who will be in charge of conducting the interviews; (e) train the staff of the
PCU and the IUs to cormctly intepret the results:of the surveys, and () review
and certify the accuracy of the results included in the reports prepared by the IUs
and the PCU for each survey.
R     Ptomotionl EdAdyggisement,
5.    Two distint t    are involved here The fitst one will consist of assisting
CFE in dedgning a promotin and adverisement cpaign to promote the use of
FLs, while the sed one will consist of impl ng the campaign. It is
expected that two different companies will  pat in the two differn tasks,
and the terms of retence for both services are decribd in the following
paragraphs.
6.    The scope of service of the consultans who will design the promotion and
adverisement campaign will include at least the following: (a) analyze the different
types of partcipants that ILUMEX wishes to attract, keping in mind that the
campaign must cover not only the residential users, but also the commercial and
other users altough the non-residential consumes interested in purchasing FLs
will be directed to the normal retail outlets; (b) on the basis of the analysis,
propose the best mix of media to reach them effecy, while keping the cost of
-the ptvm within the budgeted amount. The media to be used will include
written information tO be delivered together with the electricity bills, demonstration



A13X ?
Pape 3 of 4
stands at CPE's Service Centens and at other selected plrves, newspapers, radio
and TV; (c) popose also the best schedule for the campaign, which will haeto be
distributd over the 30 months that the project will last, but which will probably
hmve different emphasis duig different stages of the project (more concentraed at
the beginning and less so aferwards); (d) propose also the best days of the week,
the best time of the day, and the best progrms to be used as channels for the
advetsement campaign; (e) design the messages to be used to instruct and
convince the public of the benefits of the FLs and consequently of their
participation in the prgri; (f) prepare a budget estimate for the program,
including its monthly disb*sements; (P) draft invitations to submit proposals in
order to select the firm to implement the campaign and prepare a list of no less
than three and no more than'six companies, preferably no more than two from any
given country, who are qualifed to succesfilly implement the campaign; (h)
prepae terms of reerence and a detailed ealuation methodology to select the
company to implement.the campaign; (i) assist the PCU in evaluatng the proposals
received, and () participate in periodic rev    as requested by the PCU, to
evaluate the success of the advertisement campain and, if necessary, propose
mod ifications to improve its efficiency.
7.    The scope of service of the consultants who will implement the advertise-
ment campan will be defined by the PCU on the basis of the work of the
onsutants who will desin the ad-disement cmpaip. In gentsr, their work
wil consist Of implementing the campaign, submitting the reports that their
contract will specify, eeping the cost of the campaign within the conctual
budget id suggest the modificadons that they might deem necessary to render the
campaign more effective.
C     M=ngtj  and Evaluation,
8.    Monitoring and ealuation will servc the purposes: (a) to measure the
"free driver effect' (the induced sales of FLs produced by the project); (b) to
identify meas to be taken during project implementaion to ensue compliance
with project goals, and (c) to calcuate project benefits essentilly in terms of
energy and capacity savings and emission reductions The consultants retined for
this activities will assist the PCU and the JUs and will in fact certify the accurac
of the sults and conclusions produced by the PCU and the lUs. It is eqpectd
that at the end of the project the PCU and the lUs staff shall be thorughly trained
in these actvitiesL
9.    The consultants' scope of sevice shall include at least the following: (a)
prepare a manual for ewluatng the results of the surv   mentioned in paragaph
2 abowe; (b) train, or propose suitable taining, for the staff that will pardcipate in
project monitoring and evaluation; (c) propose a methodology for ealuating the
"free driver effecat, the cery savings and the envinmntal benefits associated
with the project; (d) assist the PCU and the lUs in desgning the reporting  tem,
as well as the format of the repor, required for proper project monitring and



ANNEX 7
Pag 4 of 4
evaluation; (e) review the review the supervsion and eWluation rep    prepared
by the PCU and the lUs and certfy their soundness and accuracy, and (f) assist the
PCU and the IUs in preparng the end of project report, as well as fte report to be
prepared one year after the project is completed. These reports shall be submitted
to the donor; that participated in the project, as well as to the intenational
community in seminars to be held for that purpose. The reports shall concentrAte
on the benefits of the project (both in energy savings and emission reductions), the
"free driver effect" and on the lessons learned that might be valuable in
implementing similar projects in other parts of the world.
D.              Mad=-
10.   The consultants in charge of the Lab 'bsts shall be responsible for tsting
the FLs that are first submitted as samples by all the bidders, and subsequently a
random selection of FLs from the first delivery made by the selected contractor.
The tests will be carried out in Mdico City's Lighting Lab; the PCU will make
the appwpiate angements so that the consultants can use the lab at no cost to
thm. After completing the tests, the consultants shall submit the required reports
to the PCU.
11.  In the fist test the consulants will certify the c istcs of the samples
supplied by the biddes Each bidder will supply three samples for each type of
FL proposed and they shall be ested for: (a) opemating voltage; (b) efficiency
(lumens paer it); (c) luminous flux; (d) color tempeature and color rendering
index; (e) power ctor and (t) harmonic distorton.
12.  In the second test the consulants will certify the performance of a random
sample of 20 R  taken from the first batch delivered by the contractor. These
lamps will be subjected to the same tests mentioned in the preceding paragraph, but
they will also be tested to confirm that they will maintain the luminous flux as
required by the scatons. Additionally, the lamps will be subjected to a
standard test to determine the usel flit of the FLs. At the end of each test, the
consultants shall submit a report to the PCU with their conclusions and
recommendatin.



Pago 1 of 3
IIIGH  iIHCY llSnTG l?T PROJE;CT
I*esom sIed in the linplffenion of DNAklace
Fbwer Projects and  as Pilot Lfht  Projects
Lemons Iared in the lmlementation of Bank Fianced bwer Project.
1.    The Bank participated actively in the financing of the Mexican power sector
from 1949 to 1972. A ttal of US$715 million was lent during that peiod. A long
absence from the sect followed, as no agreements could be reached with the
Govenment on important issues such as pricing, financing, sector organzatin,
management and procement. Beginning in 1986, new macroeonomic policies
helped to reopen the dialogue with the sector; furtheriore, importnt acmons were
kn  to address the concerns of the Bank, making possible the processing of new
operations.
2.    OED's audit reports and LAC's PCRs have concluded that in geneal the
Bank has made extaordinary financial contributions to the physical development of
the sectoL However, some issues and problems have affected its performance, and
these include the need to: (a) improve sector organition and management, as well
as management information systems; (b) base electricity pricing on economic and
financial grounds, rather than on political expedienc; (c) avoid unrealisc
opumism on demand growth, project costs and project constucon schedules, and
(d) imprve prurement methods.
3.    Pawer sectr oranization, mana , as well as management infmation
syswms have impmved as a result of sies arned out by speialized consult
funded by Bank loans In paricul, CFE has decentralized its opeatons, with the
correspning gains in accountability, efficiency and prompt attention to custom
More importantly, the ision of the Gener Law of Electricity Services that took
place in December of 1992, cmated an Energy Regulatory Comm issin, wMich will
begin to operat in January of 1994, and authorized the opweation Of cogenrDZS,
independent po    producer, as well as the import/export of power from/to
nighboring cncmtries.
4.    ltiffs hae been maised in real terms so that the average revenue is
approximatly 83% of long run marginal cost (LRMC). There is however a
significant distortion in the residential consumer category, where those th  consume
less than 200 kWh per month pay only app y  63% of LRMC, whereas
those that consume in excess of 200 kWh pay between 147% and 183% of LRMC.
CFE is committed to correct this distortion and it is epeted that the newly created
Regulatoy Commission will support CFBEs efforts to more adequately reflect the
economic cost of providing service to residential consumers.



Pagp 2 of 3
5.    Although electricity losses are relativly low by developing country
standards (14%), they can and should be brought down in line with those registered
in industralizd conmtries. A new Bank operation is being discussed with the
Mexican authorities to help reduce losses, and it is anticipated that it will be
appraised in FY95.
6.   Improvent in procurement practices can best be effected by reaching
ageement during project prearaton on the tender documents to be used for the
project; this will also expdite project implementation. The tender documents for
the procurement of the Es have been etesively discussed and agreement has
been reached with CFE. No difficulties are therefore  pected in this mater.
7.    A new lesson recently leamed stems from the finmcial constraints imposed
on the sector for macroeconomic reasons by the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit dunng the past three years. These constrints have forced CFE to reduce its
investment progmm. It is therefre crucial to determine whether any new project
wil fit under the investment limit set by the Ministry, as otherwie the project will
suffer delays in its implemenation. Given the nature and magnitude of the
prposed project, the Ministry has authorized CFE to include it in its investment
progrm. Tbhefore, no delays should be experienced in project implementation.
Lessons LArned from CFE's lilot Lighting Projects.
8.    CFE has implemented seven small pilot lighting projects. In three of them
(Hermosillo I, Puebla and Quer6taro) CFE donated the lamps to the partcipants.
In anot  thre (Chetumal, vlladolid and Hermosillo D) it sold the PLs at a
discount, and in one (sales to CFEBs employees in Mexico City) it sold the lamps at
full price but financed them over five months.
9.   In all projects, the number of FLs and participants involved was very small
as may be seen from the following table:
Number DL       Pardfl
Hermosillo I                          400              139
Puebla                                400              136
Querdtaro                             500              100
Valladolid                           9,054            3,638
Chetumal                            20,729            5,436
Hermosillo II                       50,000            16,670
CFE employees/Mexico City            9,337            1,670



ANNMX 
Pap. 3 of 3
10.   CFE's experience demonstrates that: (a) of all the FLs offered (typicaly
fiur or five types were made available) two thirds of the patipants preferred the
22 watt circular lamp (which in strict sense is not a FL but rather an effilcient
fluorescent lamp); (b) energy (and electicity bill) savings ranged from a low of 3%
to a high of 12% for the very small projects in which CFE donated the lamp In
Vailadolid, savings reached 27%; however, in this community lighting accounts for
nearly all residential consumption. Consequently, savings as a percent of normal
electricity consumption were extaordinarily high; (c) in those projects were FIA
were sold at a discount, door-to-door sales proved to be a ifr more effective
marketing stategy. In Valladolid, during four months lamps wer sold at selected
stores at a discount but sales stgated at 1,771; 7,322 more were sold over the
next two months through a door-to-door campaign; (d) all surveys indicated that the
main reasons why customers were reluctant to participate in the progm  was the
high cost of the FLs. Therefore a rebate was instituted as a means to attract
participion; the rebates nomially ranged from 30 to 50% of the cost of the FLs,
except for the case of CFEs employees in Mexico City who were not given a
rebate and for the very small projects in wbich the FLs were given away at no cost
to the participants, and (e) the evaluation process was deemed instrumental to
improve project implementation. However, financial constraints forced CFE to
restict financing for this purpose and consequently the infmation available is only
11.  In spite of the shortcomings of the evaluation process, important lessons
have been learned from CFE's small pilot projects, and these have been relected in
the design of the proposed project. The main lessons incorpozated in project desig
are those related to the type of lamps to be offered, the need to resort to door-to-
door marketng and to offer an attractive rebate and the requirement for a
compreensive evaluation process which must be camed out in parallel with the
project.



Mao ~ ~ NN
HIGH E CIENCY LIGXITING lMllm ntoJE
Ustof project rlated documents led In the LAC nformation
Center:
1.    Feasibility Study of the ILUMEX project. Prprd by the
nrntional nstitu   for Energy Consevato in December of 1992
and financed by USAID.
2.    Executive Summary of the ILUMEX Project (Rumen del Proyecto
ILU1MX) and  xchnical Annex (Anexo T6cnioo), prepared by CFE
in August of 1993 as a reslt of the pro-appasa mission.
3.    Estimate of the Emisss from CFEs tmal power stations
prepared by the consultng firm UITESA.
4.    Review of the lbchnical Annex (Anexo T&cnico) prepared by CFE in
October of 1993 as a resut of the Appraisal missio.
5.    Economic Analysis of the Ilumex Project prared by CFE and Luis
Coseaza (consultant) in Octobr of 1993.
6.    Project Implemeton Plan, prepared by the Appraisal Mission.
7.    Minutes of Negotiations, including the agred tt for the Project
Opeating Guideines and for the  blishme  of the I   ng
Units



-  llo.                                                 loo,                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDIUtJ £oLUU
A                                   lX UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA                                                                                                                       MEXICO
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
HIGH EFFICIENCY UGHTING PILOT
Nogolos --                       ioor o                                                                                                        PROJECT  (ILUMEX PROJECT)
0  03'  CPL  '                                                                                                                                              CIS.
SAj               Gwym.                                                         C 0 A         \  L/    C"                                                                             *W
'.W.   X       .  d   o    AAt" 
* ( ; t < hE AliO 'NiA                 O             /                                                                                                  iiAl
OA!4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                        u          Calc                       .X...!BLZ
*    --  ~~~~~~~~~~~P"l0 MncipfIOies  Tcwm
Su                                                                                                                                                                 OMEtaRd o  PI.RA30sooda,
j~~~~                                                                                ~ *.   .oo g   /   -A A   C. /6   ; ; X ;   .                                      >>                          H  N  U  A
,,c6r,            -  Ar
C.bo So. Loon,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rMA 
m   5AN        or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UAA   OJAW                                                                   '
JAii C                                                                              Cam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  APEH
-,    ~ .--J"ABASCO 
h lp-'Doc                             7'      ~      ~      N                BELIZE,'
KILOMETERS 0    00o    23      300D    400    300                                                                                                              o.o~                                              
MILES 0          00o        ;tO          300GUTML
T-P                       ~~~~H O N D U RAS
000  h~~~~~~~  000 000.40 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.. .0.40 .o.Oo0o.~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~
. o o 0 ..~~~~~~~ 0 0 o . 0 0 0 0 0 O 0 * .. o 0   40o.o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ .  A0 0



