Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF 028694
Global Environment Trust
Fund Grant Agreement
(High Efficiency Lighting Pilot Project)
among
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated June 10, 1994
Page  2
GET GRANT NUMBER TF 028694
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1994, among BANCO NACIONAL DE 
OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Recipient), UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established the Global 
Environment Facility consisting of the GET, the Ozone Projects Trust Fund and 
Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET, to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have 
provided resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have 
requested and the Bank has agreed to administer such grant funds as Trustee for 
the purposes of, and in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient and the Guarantor, having satisfied 
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, have requested assistance from the resources of the GET in 
the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined that such assistance 
would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient and the Guarantor have also requested the 
Kingdom of Norway (Norway) to provide additional funds towards the 
financing of the Project and by an agreement dated     May 19, 1994 (the 
Norwegian Grant Agreement) between Norway and the Guarantor (therein 
referred to as Mexico) Norway has agreed to provide such assistance on a grant 
basis in an aggregate amount equivalent to twenty million two hundred fifty 
thousand Norwegian Kroner (NKr 20,250,000) (the Norwegian Grant);
WHEREAS (E) Norway and the Trustee have entered into an agreement 
dated March 24, 1993 (the Cofinancing Agreement) for joint financing of the 
Project and for the administration of the Norwegian Grant by the Trustee;
Page  3
WHEREAS (F) the Project will be carried out by the 
Comisión
Federal
de
Electricidad
(CFE) with the Recipient's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Recipient will make available to CFE the proceeds of the GET Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) and the Norwegian Grant as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the 
foregoing, to extend a grant (the GET Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Trustee and CFE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (except 6.02 (a) and (b)), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Article X;
(x)
Article XI; and
Page  4
(xi)
Article XII (except Section 12.05).
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the 
symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles 
of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant or the Norwegian Grant or both, as the 
context may require;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant Account (as hereinafter 
defined) or the Norwegian Grant Account (as hereinafter 
defined) or both, as the context may require;
(vii)
the term "Guarantee Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(viii)
the term "Guarantor", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the United Mexican States; and
(ix)
in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as 
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to 
read: "An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which 
any further disbursement under the GET Grant would 
Page  5
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GET".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Aggregate Sales" means the aggregate number of FLs to be sold in 
the Pilot Areas as projected in the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators;
(b)
"CFE" means 
Comisión
Federal
de
Electricidad
(Federal Electricity 
Commission), an entity wholly owned by the Guarantor and established by the 
Ley
que
crea
la
Comisión
Federal
de
Electricidad
,
published in the Guarantor's 
Diario
Oficial
 on August 24, 1937, as amended;
(c)
"Contractual Arrangements" means the contractual arrangements 
among the Guarantor, the Recipient and CFE referred to in Section 3.01(a) of this 
Agreement;
(d)
"Execution Arrangements" means the organizational arrangements 
and the operating guidelines referred to in Section 2.01 (b)(i)(3) of the Project 
Agreement;
(e)
"FLs" means compact fluorescent light bulbs and circular 
fluorescent lamps;
(f)
"GET Grant Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the GET Grant is 
credited;
(g)
"Grants" means the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant;
(h)
"Implementing Units" means the organizations to be established 
under the Trust Deeds;
(i)
"Jalisco" means the Guarantor's State of Jalisco;
(j)
"Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators" means the monitoring and 
evaluation indicators referred to in Section 2.08 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(k)
"NKr" means Norwegian Kroner, the currency of Norway;
Page  6
(l)
"Norwegian Grant Account" means the account referred to in 
Section III, paragraph 2 of the Cofinancing Agreement;
(m)
"Nuevo León" means the Guarantor's State of Nuevo León;
(n)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in Section 
2.07 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(o)
"Pilot Areas" means Jalisco and Nuevo Leon, particularly the cities 
of, respectively, Guadalajara and Monterrey;
(p)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Trustee and CFE, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(q)
"Technical Committees" means the committees to be established 
under the Trust Deeds and staffed in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.01 (b)(i)(2) of the Project Agreement;
(r)
"Trust Deeds" means the trust deeds to be entered into between 
CFE and the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01 (b)(i) of 
the Project Agreement; and
(s)
"Trustee" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee of the GET and as administrator of the Norwegian Grant 
under the Cofinancing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant; Allocation and Withdrawal
of Proceeds of the GET Grant and the
Norwegian Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant 
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant and the amount of the 
Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and the 
Norwegian Grant Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the GET Grant and the 
Page  7
Norwegian Grant in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of FLs 
required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant.
(b)
Each application for withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to 
withdraw funds from both the GET Grant Account and the Norwegian Grant 
Account, and the funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be 
apportioned by the Trustee, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances, 
between the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant in the ratio of 77:23, or such 
other ratio as shall be determined by the Trustee to take into account exchange 
rate fluctuations.
(c)
If at any time the amount of the GET Grant or of the Norwegian 
Grant shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applications by the Recipient 
for further withdrawals shall be deemed to be for withdrawal of the full amount 
applied for from the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account only, 
as the case may be, and the provisions of this Section, except for paragraph (b) 
above, shall continue to apply mutatis
mutandis
until the full amount credited to 
such remaining Account shall have been withdrawn or cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later 
date as the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Proceeds of the GET Grant
and the Norwegian Grant; Guarantee
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall enter into contractual arrangements 
with the Guarantor and CFE, satisfactory to the Trustee, providing, inter alia, for: 
(i) the transfer to CFE on a grant basis of the proceeds of the Grants for the 
carrying out of the Project; and (ii) the transfer by CFE to the Recipient of such 
funds as the Recipient may be required to refund to the Trustee in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Except as the 
Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not change or fail to enforce 
any provision of such contractual arrangements.
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the contractual 
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Recipient and the Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Grants.
Page  8
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its other obligations under 
this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees the punctual 
performance of all obligations of the Recipient set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Recipient and the Guarantor declare their commitment 
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to 
this end, the Guarantor shall cause CFE to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Guarantor shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 4.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the FLs required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grants shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Trustee, the Guarantor and the Recipient hereby agree 
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), 
shall be carried out by CFE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Guarantor and the Recipient shall participate in the 
annual and midterm reviews referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the resources and expenditures in connection with the 
execution of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures 
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
Page  9
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning 
said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the 
Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
CFE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that CFE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c) 
less than seventy (70) percent of Aggregate Sales has been achieved 
by the time of the review referred to in Section 2.08 (d) of the Project Agreement; 
and
(d)
the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CFE or for the 
suspension of its operations.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a) 
the Contractual Arrangements have been executed; and
Page  10
(b) 
the Trust Deeds have been executed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.01 (b)(i) of the Project Agreement and the managers of the 
Implementing Units have been employed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.01 (b)(i)(4) of the Project Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a) 
that the Contractual Arrangements have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Guarantor, the Recipient and CFE, have been duly executed by 
them, and are legally binding upon the Guarantor, the Recipient and CFE in 
accordance with their terms;
(b) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CFE, has been duly executed by CFE, and is legally binding upon CFE;
(c) 
that the Trust Deeds have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and CFE, have been duly executed by them, and are legally binding 
upon the Recipient and CFE in accordance with their terms; and
(d)
that the Norwegian Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Guarantor, has been duly executed by it, and is legally binding 
upon the Guarantor in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date September 12, 1994 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. This Agreement shall terminate upon acceptance by the 
Trustee of the completion report referred to Section 2.08(f) of the Project 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VIII
Representation of the Recipient
and the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Director
General
of the Recipient, and the Director
General
de
Crédito
Público
of the Guarantor's Secretaría
de
Hacienda
y
Crédito
Público
,
are designated as representatives of the Recipient and the Guarantor, 
respectively, for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Page  11
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
  Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla No. 100 Esq. Francia
Col. Florida
01030 México, D.F.
México
Cable address:
 Telex:
BANTECARIO
   BNOSME 01772619
Mexico City
   Mexico City
For the Guarantor:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Palacio Nacional, Patio Central
Oficina 4025
06066 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
  1777313-SHOCME
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
 
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
Page  12
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Guillermo Ortiz Martínez
Authorized Representative
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
  PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ Jacques Rogozinski
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
and the Norwegian Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant, the allocation of the 
amounts of the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant to such Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount
Amount
of the
of the
Norwegian
GET Grant
Grant
% of
Allocated
Allocated
Expendi-
(Expressed
(Expressed
tures 
in SDR
in NKr
to be 
Category
Equivalent)
Equivalent)
Financed
FLs  
7,300,000
20,250,000
74%
TOTAL
7,300,000
20,250,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement.
3.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made 
from the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account was used for any 
expenditures not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit 
into the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account, as the case may 
be, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by 
the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to demonstrate the technical and 
financial feasibility of reducing emissions of greenhouse gasses and 
simultaneously reduce local environmental contamination through the 
Page  14
widespread installation of high efficiency lighting; (b) to build the institutional 
capacity for technological change and energy conservation; (c) to provide a 
replicable model for energy demand side management; and (d) to strengthen 
CFE’s capacity to practice demand side management on a sustainable basis.
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient, the Guarantor, CFE and the Trustee may agree upon from time 
to time:
Replacement of approximately 1,700,000 incandescent light bulbs with FLs 
in the Pilot Areas.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of FLs
Part A
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
FLs shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is 
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price 
will be increased for each week of delay by a predisclosed correction factor 
acceptable to the Trustee. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of FLs in accordance with this Part A, the relevant 
standard bidding documents issued by the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development as modified by agreement between the Guarantor and the 
Bank dated December 8, 1993 shall be used, with such modifications thereto as 
the Bank has agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project; provided, 
however, that for any procurement of FLs for which the invitation to bid ("
convocatoria
") is dated prior to February 1, 1994 standard bidding documents 
based on the so-called "Cuernavaca Documents" with such changes as may be 
agreed by the Trustee and the Guarantor for each contract shall be used.
Page  15
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $4,000,000.
Part B
:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of FLs in accordance with the procedures described in 
Part A.1 hereof, FLs manufactured in Mexico may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C
:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to review of invitations to bid and of 
proposed awards and final contracts.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
