Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H153 KOS 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project III) 
 
between 
 
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION  
MISSION IN KOSOVO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 21, 2005 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H153 KOS 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 2005, between UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS, the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in financing the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant (as hereinafter defined) to the Recipient, for the benefit of Kosovo, 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 
1.01. 
(a) The following provisions of the 
“General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 
1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph 
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) Article 
II; 
 
(iii) 
Sections 3.01 and 3.04 (c); 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.05 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) 
Article X;  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(x) 
Article XI; and  
 
(xi) Article 
XII. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Credit”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant;  
 
(iii) 
the term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where 
used in Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, 
the term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account;  
 
(v) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement; 
 
(vi) 
paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“11. “External debt” means any debt which is or may become 
payable other than in the currency of Kosovo.”; 
 
(vii) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the 
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in respect of expenditures 
in the currency of Kosovo shall be made in such currency or 
currencies as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
select.” 
 
(viii) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Commitment Charge is 
Payable
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a)   
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the 
Grant in the currency specified in the Development Grant 
Agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are 
modified to read “commitment charge”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(ix) 
Section 4.06 (b) shall be modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b)  
The principal of the Grant shall be paid without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by the Recipient or in Kosovo.” 
 
(x) 
Section 5.08 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“It is the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Grant 
shall be withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied 
by the Recipient or in Kosovo on goods or services, or on the 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.  To 
that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any 
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, 
increase or decrease the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the Development Grant 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Association.” 
 
(xi) 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in   
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development 
grant agreement or any development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The  phrase  “any  development  credit  agreement”  in           
Section 6.02 (c) (i) is modified to read: “any development grant 
agreement, development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(c) 
Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted. 
 
(xii) 
Section 8.01 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“(a)  
The commitment charges on the Grant shall be paid 
without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by the 
Recipient or in Kosovo. 
 
(b)  
The Development Grant Agreement, and any other 
agreement to which these General Conditions apply, shall be free 
from any taxes levied by the Recipient or in Kosovo on or in 
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.” 
 
(xiii) 
Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b)  
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Association to visit any part of Kosovo for 
purposes related to the Grant.” 
 
(xiv) 
Section 9.02 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“The Recipient shall furnish to the Association all such 
information as the Association shall reasonably request with 
respect to financial and economic conditions in Kosovo, 
including its balance of payments and its external debt as well as 
that of its political or administrative subdivisions and any entity 
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of 
Kosovo or any such subdivision, and any institution performing 
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or 
similar functions, for Kosovo.” 
 
(xv) 
Section 12.05 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.  
Termination of Development Grant Agreement
 
Page  6
-
5
-
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of 
the Development Grant Agree
ment.” 
 
Section 1.02. 
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Athens Memorandum” means the Memorandum of Understanding on 
the Regional Energy Market in South East Europe and its Integration into the European 
Community Internal Energy Market signed on December 8, 2003 in Athens, Greece by 
the European Union, the Stability Pact, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Romania, the Republic of Turkey, the State 
Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and the Recipient on behalf of Kosovo, as well as the 
Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of 
Italy, the Republic of Moldova, and the Republic of Slovenia. 
 
(b) 
“ECSEE” means the Energy Community of South East Europe, formerly 
referred to as the South East Europe Regional Energy Market under the Athens 
Memorandum. 
 
(c) 
“Energy Regulatory Office” means the Energy Regulatory Office 
established pursuant to the promulgation of UNMIK Regulation Number 2004/20 of June 
30, 2004, and includes any successor thereto. 
 
(d) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union. 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(f) 
“Grid Code” means a set of rules, requirements, procedures and 
standards necessary to ensure the safe, reliable, secured and efficient operation, 
maintenance and development of the high voltage transmission system in Kosovo. 
 
(g) 
“ICMM” means the Independent Commission for Mines and Minerals of 
the Recipient, established on January 21, 2005 pursuant to Regulation No. 2005/2, 
promulgated by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations pursuant to the authority given to him under United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 1244 (1999) of June 10, 1999 (UNSCR 1244 (1999)), or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(h) 
“KTA” means the Kosovo Trust Agency, established on June 13, 2002 
pursuant to Regulation No. 2002/13, promulgated by the Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations pursuant to the authority given to him under 
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) of June 10, 1999 (UNSCR 1244 
(1999)), or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(i) 
“MEM” means the Ministry of Energy and Mining within the PISG (as 
hereinafter defined), established pursuant to UNMIK Regulation Number 2004/50 of 
December 2, 2004, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(j) 
 “MFE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economy within the PISG, 
or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(k) 
“PISG” means the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Regulation No. 2001/9 of May 15, 2001 on a 
Constitutional Framework for Provisional Self-Government in Kosovo, as amended, 
promulgated by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations pursuant to the authority given to him under United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 1244 (1999) of June 10, 1999      (UNSCR 1244 (1999)). 
 
(l) 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan, dated February 23, 
2005, prepared by the MEM and endorsed by the Recipient covering the initial 24 month 
period of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(m) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of the Project, adopted by the MEM and dated February 
23, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association. 
 
(n) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee established for 
purposes of the Project, as confirmed to the Association by that certain letter dated 
September 14, 2004 addressed by the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-
General, UNMIK Pillar IV, with representatives from the Recipient, the MEM, the 
Energy Regulatory Office, the KTA and the ICMM. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,700,000) (the Grant). 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services and incremental operating costs required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04.  
(a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent     (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by the 
Recipient or in Kosovo; and (iii) in Euros or in such other eligible currency or currencies 
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.05. 
Commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 
and December 15  in each year.  
 
Section 2.06.  With respect to any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, 
the Recipient shall ensure that applications for withdrawal of the Grant from the Grant 
Account shall be prepared by the MFE in the form specified and satisfactory to the 
Association and shall be co-signed by one duly authorized representative of the MEM 
and one duly authorized representative of the MFE. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, environmental, financial, technical and administrative practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause the MEM to update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than 18 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
cause the MEM to prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient and the MEM on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not, and the Recipient shall ensure that MEM shall not, amend, suspend, abrogate, 
terminate or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan without the prior 
written consent of the Association.
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Recipient shall ensure that the MFE maintains a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepares financial statements in 
Page  10
-
9
-
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the Recipient’s operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure that the MFE has the Recipient’s financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, commencing with the accounts for the year 
ending December 31, 2006, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish, and shall ensure that the MFE furnishes, to the 
Association such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall ensure 
that the MFE: 
 
(i) 
retains, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enables the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(iii) 
ensures that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 8 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall cause 
the MEM to prepare a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, and the Recipient shall furnish such report to the Association, which 
report: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Deputy 
Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Interim 
Administration Mission in Kosovo, Pillar IV, is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
United Nations Interim Administration  
 
Mission in Kosovo 
One Mother Theresa Street 
Pristina 
Kosovo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(212) 963-8442-5642, or 
 
(381-38) 504 604-5642 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Pristina, Kosovo, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM  
ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO 
 
By  /s/ 
Joachim Rücker 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s
/
Kanthan Shankar
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services, 
1,600,000 
100% of foreign  
 
including audit services 
 
expenditures 
 
and 95% of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Incremental 
15,000 
100% of foreign 
 operating 
costs 
 
expenditures 
 
and 95% of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(3) Unallocated 
85,000
TOTAL 1,700,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for services supplied 
from any territory other than that of Kosovo;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures other than foreign 
expenditures; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenditures, as approved by the Association on the basis of budgets 
acceptable to the Association, incurred by the MEM with respect to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including consultant fees (not otherwise 
financed under Category (1)), office supplies, publication of advertisements and 
procurement notices, vehicle operation, travel costs, including air fare, local transport, 
and hotel and per diem charges, translation and production of documents, and workshop 
expenses, but excluding salaries or honoraria of officials and employees of the Recipient 
Page  15
-
14
-
and PISG, including, without limitation, salaries or honoraria of officials and employees 
of the MEM. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures relating to all incremental 
operating costs, as approved by the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to the 
Association, and under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit 
into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support Kosovo’s integration within the 
ECSEE regional energy market through assistance with implementation of Kosovo’s 
immediate obligations under the Athens Memorandum, specifically the establishment of 
an independent transmission and system operator, development of a Grid Code, 
development of transmission and retail tariffs, including subsidy mechanism, and 
institutional strengthening to participate in the market; and (ii) to develop a policy 
framework, guidelines and institutional capacity for the utilization of Kosovo’s mineral 
resources.  
 
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Energy Sector
1. 
Transmission and System Operator
Development of a Grid Code for the transmission system, preparation of a 
transmission policy framework defining the role of the transmission and system operator 
within the Kosovo electricity industry and the ECSEE regional energy market, and 
development of the transmission and system operator organizational design and structure. 
 
2. Tariff 
Framework
Development of electricity transmission and retail tariffs, including a lifeline 
tariff that is consistent with the relevant European Union Directives, and development of 
improved targeting subsidies for the poor. 
 
Part B:
Mining Sector
1. 
Mining Sector Strategy
Development of a mining sector strategy and strengthening of the institutional 
capacity of the PISG to implement the strategy for both large and small size mines. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
Mining Sector Community Participation and Development Plan
Development of a policy framework and detailed guidelines for communication, 
participation and preparation of development plans for communities that may be affected 
by future mining projects. 
 
3. 
Mining Sector SME Capacity Development
Provision of technical assistance to small scale mining operations to improve 
their financial, operational and environmental performance. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines , or the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in Kosovo. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
2. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for auditing services may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
each contract for consultants’ services shall be subject to Prior Review by the 
Association.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.   
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the overall responsibility for the implementation 
and coordination of the Project, 
including procurement of consultants’ services and 
project financial management, as well as day-to-day Project management and 
supervision, shall be vested with the MEM. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project Steering Committee facilitates the 
timely delivery of the assistance and the effective coordination of the activities provided 
by the KTA, the Energy Regulatory Office, the MEM and the ICMM under the Project, 
as well as provides guidance and advice in the implementation of the Project, the terms of 
reference and the selection of consultants, and compliance with the Association’s 
procurement guidelines and procedures, and consults with local institutions, donors and 
other stakeholders. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all agencies, departments, and other organs of the 
Recipient and of the PISG are provided with adequate resources, staff and facilities for 
the performance of their respective responsibilities and obligations under the Project, and 
that they properly discharge such responsibilities and obligations in a timely and effective 
manner. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Part A.1 of the Project is carried out by the MEM, 
in coordination with the KTA.  
 
5. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Part A.2 of the Project is carried out by the MEM, 
in coordination with the Energy Regulatory Office.  
 
6. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project are carried out by 
the MEM, with assistance from the ICMM. 
 
7. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Part B.3 of the Project is carried out by the MEM, 
in coordination with the ICMM. 
 
8. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
cause the MEM to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December 1, 2006, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
Page  21
-
20
-
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 1, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
