                                           Documentof
                                       The WorldBank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 31430-XK




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                     PROPOSEDGRANT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 1.7MILLION
                              (USD2.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

         UNITEDNATIONS INTERIMADMINISTRATION MISSIONINKOSOVO
                               FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO

                                            FOR AN

                ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT-I11

                                        February24,2005




Infrastructure andEnergy Sector Unit
SouthEastEuropeCountry Unit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate EffectiveFebruary24,2005)


                           Currency Unit = Euro
                              Euro0.7570 = US$1
                             US$1.52169 = SDRl

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DMM      Directorate ofMines and Minerals
EC       European Commission
ECSEE    Energy Community o f SouthEast Europe
ERO      Energy Regulatory Office
ESTAP    Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
FMR      Financial Management Report
ICB      Intemational Competitive Bidding
I C M M  IndependentCommission for Mines andMinerals
ICR      ImplementationCompletion Report
IFC      International Finance Corporation
KEK      Korporata Energjetike e Kosoves
KEM      Kosovo Economic Memorandum
KTA      Kosovo Trust Agency
MEM      MinistryofEnergy andMining
PISG     Provisional Institutions o f SelfGovernment
POEs     Publicly Owned Enterprises
SBD      StandardBiddingDocuments
SME      Smallto MediumEnterprises
SOEs     Socially OwnedEnterprises
TAM      TurnAround Management Contractor
TSO      Transmission and System Operator
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
UNMIK    UnitedNations InterimAdministrationMissioninKosovo



                           Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
              Country ManagerDirector:          OrsaliaKalantzopulos
                          Sector Manager:       Henk Busz
                       Task Team Leader:        Mohinder P. Gulati
                   Co-Task Team Leader:         Michael Stanley

                                         KOSOVO
                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                 ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT-I11

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                               EUROPEAND CENTRALASIA

                                           ECSIE

 Date: February 24,2005                         Team Leader: Mohinder P. Gulati
 Country Director: OrsaliaKalantzopoulos        Sectors: Power (SO%);Mining and other
 Sector Managermirector: Hindenkus Busz         extractive (40%);General energy sector (10%)
                                                Themes: Regional integration (P);Trade
                                                facilitation and market access
                                                (P);Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                development (S)
 Project ID: PO88865                            Environmental screening category: Not
                                                Required
  LendingInstrument: Technical Assistance       Safeguard screening category: No impact
  Loan
                                   Project Financing Data
  [ ]Loan    [ ] Credit  [XI Grant  [ 3 Guarantee     [ ] Other:

  For Loans/Credits/Others:
  Total Bank financing (US$m.): 2.50
  Proposed terms: Grant

                   Source                       Local             Foreign             Total
  BORROWERRECIPIENT                                 0.00              0.00                0.00

  Total:                                            0.00              2.50                2.50

  Borrower:
  UnitedNations Interim Administration Mission inKosovo
  Kosovo
  Tel: +381-38-504-604
  "Andreas Wittkowsky" <wittkowsky@un.org>

  Responsible Agency:
  Ministry of Energy and Mining, PISG
  Kosovo
  Tel: +377-44-110-011
  agron.dida@ks-gov.net


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

 FY           1  2005 1    2006 1    2007 1      0        0           0       0          0        0
 Annual           0.10      0.50      1.90      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
 Cumulative        0.10     0.60      2.50      2.50      2.50       2.50     2.50       2.50     2.50



I Does  the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?         ,vao  rv, .

  Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
 Ref: PADD.7
  Have these been approved by Bank management?
  I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                          [ ]Yes [XINO
  Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial7' or "high"?
  Ref: PAD C.5                                                                          [ ]Yes [XINO

  Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
  Ref: PAD D.7                                                                          [XIYes [ ] N o

  Project development objective Ref: PAD 23.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
  The project's primaryobjectives are (i) support KOSOVO~S
                                            to                    integration with the regional energy
  market through assistance with implementation o f its immediate obligations under the Athens
  Memorandum namely the establishment o f an independent Transmission and System Operator
  (TSO), development o f a GridCode, development of transmission andretail tariffs including
  subsidy mechanism, andinstitutional strengthening to participate inthe market, and (ii)     to
  develop a policy framework, guidelines, and institutional capacity for the utilization o fKosovo's
  mineral resources. A community participation and development planwill support the
  overarching sector plan by considering those most affectedbyresource development, using
  sustainability as a guidingprinciple. Technical assistance to SMEs to develop regulation and
  define standards i s expected to leadto improved industry performance and create growth
  opportunities for the SME sector.

  Project description [one-sentence summary o f each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
  Annex 4
  Component 1: Energy Sector
  The energy sector component will comprise the following two subcomponents:

  Subcomponent 1- Transmission and System Operator: This includes the development o f a Grid
  Code for the transmission system, drafting of a transmissionpolicy framework clearly defining
  the role o f the TSO within the Kosovo electricity industry and the regional ESCEE market, and
  development o fthe TSO organizational design and structure.
  Subcomponent 2- TariffFramework: Development o f electricity transmission andretail tariffs
  including a lifeline tariffthat is consistent with EUDirectives, and improve targeting o f subsidy
   for the poor.

   Component 2: Mining Sector
  The miningsector component will comprise of the following three subcomponents:

Subcomponent 1- Mining Sector Strategy: Development of a miningsector strategy and building
capacity within PISGto implement the plan for both large and small mines.
Subcomponent 2- Mining Sector ConzmunityParticipation and Development Plan: Development
o f a policy framework and detailed guidelines for communication, participation, and preparation
o f development plans for communities that may be affected by future miningprojects.
Subcomponent 3- Mining Sector SME Capacity Development: Technical assistanceto small scale
miningoperations (SME)to improve their financial, operational, and environmental
performance.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
No safeguards policies are triggered

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
No non-standard conditions

Loadcredit effectiveness:
Nonon-standard conditions

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
No non-standard covenants


                                                          KOSOVO
                         Energy Sector TechnicalAssistance Project-I11

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                Page

A
.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................    1
 1.  Economic Issues..................................................................................................................              1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                       7
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                   8

B
.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................      8
 1. Lendinginstrument .............................................................................................................                 8
 2.  Project development objectives and key indicators (see Annex 3) .....................................                                          8

 breakdown) .................................................................................................................................
 3. Project components (see Annex 4 for detailed description and Annex 5 for project cost
                                                                                                                                                    9
 4. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design..........................................................                                    11
 5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................                                 11

C. IMPLEMENTATION                   ........................................................................................................       12
 1. Partnership arrangements..................................................................................................                     12
 3. Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomes/results ................................................................                                 13
 4.  Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
          . . .                                                                                                                                    13
 5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                                14
 6. Grant conditions andcovenants ........................................................................................                          14

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                         .................................................................................................       14
 1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                           14
 2. Technical...........................................................................................................................            14
 3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................           15
 4.  Social................................................................................................................................. 16
 5. Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................                 17
 6. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                           17

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................     18

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or otherAgencies                                                             .................23

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................       24

Annex 4: Detaiied Project Description          ......................................................................................        29

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        43

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................       44

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                             ..................................... 47

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               ......................................................................................       50

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 .............................................................................       53

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................        54

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                     .....................................................................      55

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File              .................................................................................       56

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................      57

Annex 14: Kosovo at a Glance      ...................................................................................................        58

Annex 15: MAP.IBRD 30432R            ................................................................................................        60

A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Economic Issues

Inthe nineties, theKosovo' economy hadbeen damaged bypoor economic policies, broken
external trade and financial links, intemational sanctions, and a lack o f investment inkey sectors.
It suffered further duringthe ethnic conflict which ended in 1999. The post-conflict
reconstructionprogram has proceeded well, and official aid flows have resulted inrecovery o f
economic activity and positive growth. However, this growth is not likely to be sustainable and
official aid flows have started declining. Despite post-conflict economic recovery, poverty in
Kosovo is wide spread. Out o f a population o f about 2 million almost 36% live below poverty
line, halfo f its population is below 24 years o f age, and about 47% o f the population i s
unemployed- significantly higher than inany Balkan countrg.

After the conflict, Kosovo was placed under the administration o fthe UnitedNations Interim
Administration Mission inKosovo (UNMIK)under the terms o f UNSecurity Council
Resolution 1244 (1999). In2001, a Constitutional Framework was agreed establishingthe
Provisional Institutions o f Self-Government (PISG). Although the UNMIKretains certain
reserve powers and final legal authority, including on energy andminingsectors, there is a
continued transition to self-government with the PISG assuming significant responsibility on
matters relating inter-alia to economic policy, trade, and investment. Inthe PISG, a new
Ministry o f Energy and Mining(MEM)has been established inDecember 2004 with the
responsibility for defining policies and future development strategies o fthe energy and mining
sectors. InJune 2002, Kosovo Trust Agency (KTA) was established by UNMIK and entrusted
with the responsibilityo f inter-alia business oversight on the energy andminingsector
enterprises, restructuring the Publicly OwnedEnterprises (POEs), and privatizing the assets o f
Socially Owned Enterprises (SOEs). This shared governance arrangement results ina
challenging environment for the energy and miningsectors.

The Kosovo Economic Memorandum (KEM) 2004 identified energy andminingsectors as
potential sources o f economic growth provided existing infrastructure is rehabilitated, industry is
restructuredinline with the emergingregional electricity market, andprivate sector investors are
brought into expand power generation and miningbusiness primarily for export purposes. The
KEMalso concludes that theprospects for economic growthwill largely depend upontwo
overarching andinter-dependent factors: (i)     implementation o f a policyprogram that promotes
private sector led growth and (ii) maintenance o f peace and security for all peoples o f the
                                    the
region and a clarification o f the political and legal arrangements.

KOSOVO'S   long-term future lies inintegrating with the region. Through UNMIK,Kosovo i s a
signatory to the Athens Memorandum for establishment o f a regional energy market called the
Energy Community of South East Europe (ECSEE)3. This initiative sponsored by the Stability

'Kosovo, Serbia andMontenegro, hereinafter Kosovo.
  Kosovo Economic Memorandum, World Bank (May 2004)
  On December 8,2003, the European Commission and the countries o fthe South East Europe signed a
Memorandum ofUnderstanding inAthens, Greece to create a regional energy market. The Memorandumis signed
byAlbania, Bosnia andHerzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Romania, Serbia andMontenegro, andTurkey,


                                                     1

Pact and the European Commission is fully supported by the Bank through policy advice,
technical assistance and financing investments through a new facility called the ECSEE
Adaptable Program Loan (APL),recently approved by the Bank. Participation inECSEE4i s
expected to create significant opportunities for Kosovo to use its abundant and competitive
energy and miningresources to meet growing energy demandinthe regional market.

Sector Issues

Historically, energy and miningwere mainstays o fthe Kosovo economy, providing direct and
indirect employment, sources o frevenue, export earnings, and inputs to downstream industries.
However, from being a contributor to economic growth, the power sector has become a drain on
public resources. Inaddition, unreliable electricity supply has emerged as one o fthe main
obstacles to growth (Investment Climate Assessment, 2003). Many o f the miningassets are run
down, uneconomic after years o fneglect o fmaintenance and upgrading o f equipment, and now
require substantial investments.

                              Evaluation of General Constraints to Operations
                        (percent of firms ranking constraintas "major" or 'lvery severe")




                             Source: Investment Climate Assessment, World Bank 2003.



and UNMIK onbehalf ofKosovo (collectively calledRegionalMembers); Austria, Greece, Hungary, Italy, and
Slovenia (Participants); and Moldova as an Observer.
 A detailed description of ECSEE is available inthe Project Appraisal Document of the "Energy Community of South East
Europe (APL) Program" approved by the Bank on January 27,2005.




                                                              2

The KEMdefines the medium-term economic outlook as relyingheavily on three economic
sectors inwhich Kosovo has considerable endowment andlor comparative advantage: energy,
mining,and agriculture. Bothenergy and mininghavethe potential inthe mediumto longer
term to revitalize the Kosovo economy, especially given large and increasing energy needs
throughout the region and the rebound in global commodity prices.

Eneray Sector Issues

KOSOVO'Senergyresource isits extensive lignite deposits. Ithasnoother fossil fuel resource
           key
andhas only a very modest hydroelectric potential. It has no natural gas import andno gas
supply infrastructure. It has no oil refinery and depends entirely on imported liquidfuels. Its
electricity network covers almost 100% o f the households, but the district heating networks are
confined only to about 11,000 consumers inthe three cities, meeting only 5% o f the heat
demand. Hence, there is an excessive heat demand load on the power system. Billingand
collection remains a major problem. In2004 KEK's technical losses were 21%. Ofthe total
energy available only 62% was billedo f which only 63% was collected. Due to poor operational
and financial performance o f the power utility (KEK), the electricity sector has not only become
an obstacle to growth but also a fiscal burden. Shared andoften politically conflicting
governance arrangements between the UNMIK and PISG have ledto poor sector governance,
and slowed the pace o fpolicy development. Inaddition, it has impededsector restructuring,
improvements inutilityPerformance, and recovery o f the miningsector.

Kosovo can only meet its domestic demand on the basis o f exporting surplus electricity
generation duringoff-peak hours, and importing from the neighboringpower systems during
peak hours. Currently, its net generation capacity of about 1,055 MW i s able to generate about
700 MW (against peak demand o f 850 MW') on account o fold age o fthe units, decades o f
inadequate maintenance, physical damage caused duringthe conflict, and in2002 damage to a
large thermal plant (Kosovo B) by lightningand a landslide inlignite mines6This has ledto
serious power shortages, andeven with supply curtailment for about 20% o f the time, Kosovo
needs to import electricity worth about 20 million duringwinter months. Use o f electricity for
space heatinginKosovo is excessive inpart due to relatively low tariffs, lack o f alternative
sources o f heating, andbecause consumers have been able to get electricity at little or no cost by
by-passing their meters, making illegal connections and not paying their electricity bills. Both
units o f Kosovo B have beenrehabilitated and are functioning; two small units o fKosovo A may
not be worth rehabilitating; and for the rehabilitation o f the three larger units o f Kosovo A (120
MW each), no financing is as yet available.

Inthe SouthEast Europeanregion, the power supply situationisprojectedto tighten
significantly duringthe next few years and threatens to constrain economic activity and affect the
quality o f life ifnot addressed with determined regional action. Apart from Turkey, investment


 Additional about 100MW o fbase load demand will be added inearly 2006, once Ferronikeli is privatized for
which KTA has launched a tender.
  Net available thermal generation capacity i s 1020MW, comprising o f 480 M W o f Kosovo A (between 30 and 40
years old) and 540 MW of Kosovo B (about 20 years old) - both using lignite. In addition Kosovo has a hydro
power plant of 35 M W (HPP Gazivode).


                                                      3

over the past 10-15 years has been limited, with the average age o f capacity now in excess of
thirtyyears. Significant capacity additions (ofthe order o f 12,000-15,000 MW) and plant
rehabilitations (of the order o f 8,000-9,000 MW) will be required duringthe next ten years, along
with matching transmission and distribution system investments ifdemand is to bemet and
severe power shortages and supply interruptions are to be avoided. Findingso f a pre-feasibility
study for a generation plant inKosovo, and preliminary findings o f an ongoing regional
generation investment study' indicate that KOSOVO'S            lignite fired power generation would be a
competitive source o f supply inthe regional market. To eliminate the power shortage that is
impeding development inKosovo, and to benefit from the opportunities created by the emerging
regional electricity market, Kosovo needs to address the following major challenges facing its
electricity sector:

        Poor performance o f the power utility Korporata Energjetike e Kosoves (KEK),inpart
  due to its weak management capacity and poor corporate governance; poor maintenance o f
  generation plants, and the network due to lack o f resources available to KEK; deteriorating
  lignite mines, inefficient operation o f generation plants, highlevel o f system losses, andpoor
  billcollection.
  0     A needto integrate with the ECSEE regional energy market inorder to optimize its own
  generation capacity, reduce the risk o f unreliable power supply, inparticular, to potential large
  investors inKosovo, and inthe medium term to exploit its lignite resources for attracting
  investments inexport-oriented power plants.
  0     Rationalize excessive use o f electricity for space heating duringwinter to reduce demand
  for electricity, and revise its outdated retail tariff structure to improve targeting o fthe subsidy
  for the poor.
  0     Finance near term investments to rehabilitate generation plants and lignite mines,
  rehabilitate and augment the network, and to implement orderly plans for import o fpower to
  reduce its chronic shortages, particularly inwinter season.

Energy Sector Issues: Government Strategy

To improve the operational and financial performance o fKEK, an international utility (ESBI)
has been engaged recently as Turn Around Management (TAM) Contractor on an incentive-
based andperformance-linked management contract. Within six months o f takingover, the TAM
has initiated action to improve bill collection, disconnect defaulters, and reschedule arrears if
there is regular payment o f current bills. The authorities are providing political and
administrative support to the utility management inits endeavor to address chronic problems o f
nonpayment and theft o f power.

UNMIKandPISGhavejointly undertakenactions to meet obligations underthe Athens
Memorandum, including: enacting the necessary energy laws, creating a Ministry o f Energy and
Miningfor definingenergy policyandcoordinating its implementation, establishing anEnergy
Regulatory Office (ERO), initiating actions to restructureKEK and establish an independent
Transmission and System Operator (TSO). To this end, the EuropeanAgency for
Reconstruction(EAR) is fundingtechnical assistance for institutional development o f the

 RegionalElectricity.MarketAction Planand InfrastructureDevelopmentPrioritization: GenerationInvestmentStudy, European
CommissionNorld Bank, 2004 (ongoing)


                                                          4

recently established regulatory office, and to incorporate KEK and TSO. The authorities are also
developing an appropriate regulatory and fiscal framework to attract private investment inthe
energy sector.

To evaluate economic and environmentally clean fuel alternatives for meetingheat demand in
Kosovo, the authorities have sought the Bank's advice. A "Kosovo Heat Market Study", to be
carried out through the use o f a consultant Trust Fund, has been proposed and, subject to funds
being made available, is expected to start by Spring2005 andbe completed before the end o f the
year.

To utilize KOSOVO'S resources the authorities shall commissionpreliminary investigations
                      lignite
for a new lignite mine and power plant. A project manager shall be appointedto undertake
preliminarysteps to facilitate investments inanew lignite mine andpower plantprobably
through a public-private partnership.

Mining SectorIssues


The miningindustry was a major component o f KOSOVO'S         industrial complex. Current mining
operations are approachingphysical collapse after more than a decade o fpoor practices and
chronic under-funding. KOSOVO'Sminingassets are:
                                     main

Mirash and Bardh limite mines operated by KEKwith production o f 6 million tons lignite per
year, sustained supply o f lignite is essential to maintain the production o f electricity at Kosovo A
and Bpower plants. Ina poor state o f repair and overstaffing, current miningcosts of  9 per
tonne are unreasonably high. The operations need to be rationalizedto bringproduction costs to
 5-6 per tonne, with sales captive to power generation on a transfer price basis;

Trepca - an integratedlead / zinc miningcomplex and associated manufacturing complex across
five mines and two metallurgical plants. The miningunit is working to transition from care-and-
maintenance to resumed operations for export o fmetal concentrate. To do so an estimated
investment o f 25 million is required and recovery o f downstream metallurgical operations is
thought to be cost prohibitive. The parent company is reportedto be carrying significant debt
against future miningannual turnover o f 50 million per year on concentrate sales;

Ferronikeli - an exporter o f high-value ferronickel for use inthe steel and manufacturing
industries o f central and western Europe, the Ferronikeli operation, a socially owned enterprise,
began privatization infall 2004 after sitting idle since the end o f conflict in 1999. Annual
production o f 12,000 tons o f containednickel could yield an annual turn-over inthe range o f
125-150 million, after an investment o f about 50 million to recover the mines and
metallurgicalplant. KTA is working to conclude privatization o f the assets o fFerronikeli in
2005;

Strezovc and Golesh Mamesia -comprised o f two regional mines and metallurgical plants, these
operations generated strong export earnings through the sale o f caustic and sinter magnesia. The
operations were damaged duringthe war and closed. When restored, this operation can generate




                                                    5

an estimated annual tumover in excess o f 10 million. However, reliable estimates o f the
amount o f capital investment needed are yet to be prepared; and

Crushed stone and construction materials   - licensed Small-to-Medium Enterprises (SME's)
within this sub-sector are being economically eroded by unlicensed, illegal operations. Inferior
product is being supplied to residential and commercial construction and plannedinfrastructure
development will require improved sub-sector performance. Annual tumover is unknown and
estimated only as "tens of millions'' per year.

Inthe miningsector, strategic actions are neededon existing operations andto stimulatenew
investments. The level o f investment that is needed i s significant and will need to come from
private investorswilling to take the risks inherent inmineral commodity markets. That
meaningful private investment has not been attracted i s indicative o f (i)
                                                                          investorsnot receiving
positive signals from a coherent, prioritized strategy that is supported bythe technical capacity
within key government agencies, and (ii) uncertainty surroundingthe final status o fKosovo.
                                           the

Lack o f a coherent strategy and key mineral policies is inpart due to a shared govemance
arrangement for mineral resources across UNMIK and the PISG. Inthe absence o f strong
ownership o f the Ministry of Energyand Miningina long-term sector plan, key policy gaps and
impasse over strategic actions will persist. One widely cited example is the policy gap in
allocation o fknown mineral resources between existing operations and green-field opportunities.
The donor contributions into the sector have also lackedprioritization and a strategic approach.
BothKEKmining andTrepca report a proliferation o fthe types o f equipment used leading to
procurement inefficiencies, while maintenance and performanceproblems o f key equipment
remains unaddressed.

Development o f a comprehensive, strategic, long-term sector plan is a key step towards
improving sector performance and making mininga source o f economic growth. Major issues
facing the mining sector are:
    0   Institutional weaknesses. Capacity development and institutional strengthening o f the
        newly created Ministry o f Energy and Miningis needed to support private sector
        participation.
    0   Legal and regulatoryframework. A new mininglaw, recently promulgated as an UNMIK
        regulation, will require MEMto provide policy guidance and ensure that benefits reach
        those most affectedbymineral development. Appropriate sector regulations need to be
        prepared to support implementation o fthe new Law.
    0   Small scale mining.. Additional technical assistance is needed to improve sub-sector
        performance by creating licensed SMEs having the capacity to adhere to obligations and
        regulations.
    0   A strategicframework for lignite mining is critical to thepower sector. A comprehensive
        lignite development plan is needed to guide future power generation projects under a
        progressive economic, social, and environmental framework.




                                                   6

Mining Sector Issues: Government strategy

The policy o f increasing private sector participation inthe sector would need to be supported by
a satisfactory regulatory framework and an independent regulatory authority to implement it.
UNMIKhastaken stepsto increaseregulatorycapacitythrough promulgationofregulations "On
Mines and Minerals inKosovo" and "On the Establishmento f the Lndependent Commission for
Mines andMinerals (ICMM)8" on January 21,2005 as a body responsible for regulatingthe use
o fmineral resources and overseeing miningactivities inKosovo. The I C M Mhas undertaken
actions to: compile the mineral resources o f Kosovo, legislation for mines and minerals use, and
create a MiningRegulatory Office and Mines Cadastre. The mineralpolicy work has been
transferred to the Ministry o f Energy and Mining.

The Kosovo Trust Agency (KTA) has initiated competitive bidding for privatization o fthe assets
o f Ferronikeli ore miningand metallurgical operation. This process is attracting international
investor interest. The InternationalFinance Corporation (IFC) has expressed interest in
considering involvement inthe investment transaction, once the assets o f Ferronikeli has been
sold to a successful bidder and the mininglicense has been granted.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

Evenwith limited amounts o f IDA Grants, the Bank has been able to provide the muchneeded
catalytic technical assistance for developing a more strategic approach to addressing the energy
sector issues. Through two previous technical assistance projects (ESTAP-I and II),                the Bank
has helped Kosovo authorities develop an energy sector strategy, carry out a feasibility study for
a regional transmission link and create capacity for regional trade, and develop a framework for
attractingprivate sector investment inthe energy sector. Because o f the Bank's deep
involvement inevolution of the regional energy marketg, Kosovo authorities have requested the
Bankto providetechnical assistancesupport inimplementingtheir immediate obligations under
the Athens Memorandum", develop institutional capacity, andrestructure the power sector for
creation o f an independent transmission and system operator. The Bank's regional APL facility
to finance the necessary investments o f the countries participating inthe regional energy market
has now been approved. Ifit were to become eligible to borrow from the Association, Kosovo
would be able to access this facility. Inthe meanwhile, some limitedfinancing i s expected to be
available from the donors and through the Kosovo Consolidated Budget. The Bank's
engagement inKosovo, through the proposedtechnical assistance, will help maintain
consistency inevolution o f the market. The proposed IDA Grant for facilitating KOSOVO'S
integration into the regional energy market has been welcomed by UNMIK,PISG, and the
donors.

* The Independent  Commission for Mines and Minerals (ICMM) replaced the Directorate o fMines and Minerals
(DMM)inJanuary 2005.
9 PAD for a regional APL programto finance countries inSouth East Europe for integration into the regional energy
market (December 2004), and World Bank Framework for Development o fRegional Energy Trade in South East
Europe (March 2004).
loThe AthensMemorandum obliges the participants to establish a policy making division inthe government, an
independent regulatory agency, and a transmission and system operator. Inaddition, several technical documents
have to be developed to govern operations o f the interconnectedsystem, and to harmonize KEK's current rules and
practices for operating its power systemwith those o f the regional market.


                                                          7

Inthe miningsector, past donor activity hasbeen largelyrestricted to equipmentprocurement
and environmentalpollution abatement. The European Agency for Reconstruction remains the
only active donor with support to lignite mining, mostly for refurbishment o f some production
equipment, mine infrastructure, and to combat uncontrolled fire inthe pits. Larger operations for
which Kosovo would need donor assistance include future lignite development, privatization o f
the assets o f Ferronikeli, andrecovery o fthe Trepca and Strezovc/Golesh magnesia operations.
The Bank has the miningsector expertise and in-depth knowledge o f Kosovo itself, which are
neededto put together a comprehensive approach to addressing miningsector issues. This will
provide a basis for addressing the obstacles that hinder miningsector recovery and growth, and
for subsequent re-engagement o f other donors to support sector recovery. It will also address the
needs o fboth large scale and small to medium scale mining.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The TSS defines the key economic challenges facing Kosovo as: (i) emerge from an economy
                                                                       to
based on post-conflict reconstruction; and (ii) to continue the transition to a market economy.
This operation would define the process to mobilize the sector's large capital requirements, and
will start the process to encourage private-sector ledgrowth inenergy andmining, create a
competitive business environment, restructure publicly owned companies (POEs) that dominate
the energy andminingsectors, and identify fiscal and regulatory barriers to private sector
investment.

Energy Sector
The project addressesthe TSS Objectives and KEMrecommendations through facilitating
transition ofKosovo's energy sector to a market economy. The project will help Kosovo to
develop a necessary regulatory andtariff framework, and develop the capacity o f its institutions
to participate effectively inthe regional electricity market.

Mining Sector
Inthe miningsector, development o fanoverarching strategy will help facilitate prioritized,
strategic, and sequenced investment decisions. This sends a clear signal to the investment
community regarding opportunities for private-sector participation and clarifies objectives for
use o fKOSOVO'S    mineral resources.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lending instrument
Kosovo is not a member o f the Bank Group, and therefore not eligible to borrow from the
Association. Inaccordance with the recently approved TSS, the project is proposedto be funded
through an IDA Grantwhich will beprovided to UNMIK(the Recipient).

2. Project development objectives and key indicators (see Annex 3)
The project's primaryobjectives are (i) support KOSOVO'S
                                         to                    integration with the regional energy
market through assistance with implementation o f its immediate obligations under the Athens
Memorandum namely the establishment o f an independent Transmission and System Operator
(TSO), development o f a GridCode, development o ftransmission andretail tariffs including



                                                   8

subsidy mechanism, and institutional strengthening to participate inthe market, and (ii)to
develop a policy framework, guidelines, and institutional capacity for the utilization ofKosovo's
mineral resources. A community participation and development plan will support the
overarching sector planby considering those most affected by resource development, using
sustainability as a guidingprinciple. Technical assistance to MEMand I C M Mwill help define
standards and guidelines to improve industry performance and create growth opportunities for
the SME sector.

The key performance indicators to assess the fulfillment o fthe project's development objectives
are:
    0  The Transmission and System Operator operating under harmonized technical rules o f
       operation for a locally unbundledand regionally interconnected system.
    0  Non-discriminator transmission tariffs for thirdparty access, andnew retail tariff system,
       including subsidy delivery mechanism adopted.
    0  The miningsector plan approved by PISG and UNMIK,published, publicly available and
       used as the basis for managingKOSOVO'S        miningresources.
    0  Improved capacity o fthe SMEs to operate small quarrying and miningbusinesses.

3. Project components (see Annex 4 for detailed description and Annex 5 for project cost
breakdown)

The project consists o f two components, one for the energy sector and the other for the mining
sector. A summary o f the project components is providedbelow:

Component 1: Energy Sector

The energy sector component will comprise the following two subcomponents:
    0 Subcomponent 1- Transmission and System Operator: This includesthe development
       o f a Grid Code for the transmission system, drafting o f a transmission policy framework
       clearly defining the role o f the TSO within the Kosovo electricity industry and the
       regional ESCEE market, and development o f the TSO organizational design and
       structure.
    R Subcomponent 2- Tariff Framework: Development of electricity transmission and retail
       tariffs including a lifeline tariff that is consistent with EUDirectives, and improve
       targeting o f subsidy for the poor.

Component 2: Mining Sector

The miningsector component will comprise o f the following three subcomponents:
    P Subcomponent 1-Mining Sector Strategy: Development o f a miningsector strategy and
       buildingcapacity within PISG to implement the planfor bothlarge and small mines.
    R Subcomponent       2- Mining Sector Community Participation and Development Plan:
       Development o f a policy framework and detailed guidelines for communication,
       participation, andpreparation o f development plans for communities that may be affected
       by future miningprojects.




                                                     9

    o Subcomponent 3- Mining Sector SME Capacity Development: Technical assistance to
        small scale miningoperations (SME) to improve their financial, operational, and
        environmentalperformance.

The subcomponents, identified through discussion with the authorities and donors, complement
ongoing projects funded by other international donors, and hrther build upon the
recommendations o fESTAP Iand ESTAP 11. The proposed project fits well with the findings o f
the Extractive Industries Reviewwhich examined the Bank's oil, gas and mining-related
activities and emphasized, inter alia, the need to (i)
                                                     strengthengovernance andtransparency; (ii)
mitigate environmental and social risks; and (iii) the rights o f people affected by
                                                   protect
extractive industryinvestments. The development o f the MiningSector Strategy will include
capacity buildingfor PISG, which will help strengthen sector governance and will help bring
coordinated and transparent decision making to the sector. The MiningSector Strategy will also
document outstanding environmental and social legacy issues impacting mining sector recovery
strategies and integrate environmental management into the recovery plans for the various
operations. The Community Participation andDevelopment Planwill provide a policy
framework and detailed guidelines for communication, participation, andpreparation of
development plans for miningaffected communities which will help protect the rights o fpeople
that may be affected by present or future mining activities. The SME Capacity Development
will provide technical assistanceto small scale miningoperations (SME) that will specifically
help to improve their environmental performance, as well as helping o improve their financial
performance.

Detailed Terms o fReferences (TORS)for the project subcomponents havebeenprepared bythe
Recipient inconsultationwith the Bank. A summary o fthe Terms o f Reference o f each sub-
component is included inAnnex 4. The total cost ofthe technical assistance components is
estimated at about US$2.5 million. Detailed project cost breakdown is included inAnnex 5.


Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                   Local       Foreign        Total
                                                         US $million U S $million U S $million
Component 1:EnergySector
    Establishment o f a Transmission and System                           0.80          0.80
    Operator
    Development o f a tariff framework                                    0.60          0.60
Component 2: MiningSector
    Development o f a Miningsector Strategy                               0.50          0.50
    Development o f a fi-amework for community                            0.25          0.25
    participation and community development plan
    SME capacity development                                              0.20          0.20
Audit Fee                                                                 0.02          0.02
IncrementalOperating Costs                                                0.02          0.02
    Unallocated                                                           0.11          0.11

                                 Total Project Costs                      2.50          2.50
                          Total Financing Required                        2.50           2.50




                                                 10

4. LessonsIearned and reflected in the project design

The ESTAP I11project design reflects lessons learned inESTAP Iand ESTAP 11. Extensive
consultation has been undertaken with UNMIKand PISG officials, managers and administrators
o f POE and SOE operations, and the donor community. The lessons learned from various
technical assistance projects, i.e., ownership by local institutions, preparation ofcomprehensive
terms of reference, selection of competent consultants, detailed reviews for ensuring quality of
consultant's outputs, realistic timeframe, and wide consultations with local institutions, donors,
and other stakeholders, have been taken into account inthe project design. The design also
benefits from lessons leamed from the recent miningtechnical assistance programs in
Madagascar and Mauritania which focus on improving project design and implementation by
placing an emphasis on beneficiary participation inproject preparation.

The proposed components of ESTAP I11have received political support at the highest levels of
UNMIK,PISG. Inaddition, the keyinstitutions ofKTA, MEM,andICMMare involvedin
project implementation and are included inthe Project Steering Committee for coordination and
implementation of the project (see Section C.1).

The project components are considered highpriority by the authorities, Kosovo institutions, and
the donors (EAR, CIDA, USAID, Sida, KfW), and meet urgent requirements ofKosovo for
compliance with its obligations under the Athens Memorandum. The scope of work o fthe
consultants has been defined to ensure complementarity with the technical assistance being
provided by EAR, CIDA, KfW, Sida, EUand USAID. The consultants would be selected
through International Competitive Biddingusing the Bank's guidelines and procedures for
selection o f consultants. Cost estimates shall be prepared carefully and contracts will be signed
on a lump-sum basis.

Though the Ministryof Energy and Mining,assigned the responsibility of implementing the
project, was established recently and therefore does not have a track record, several senior
officials o f the Ministry and of other agencies, e.g., ERO, KTA, KEK,have beeninvolved in
implementation o f projects funded by the Association and other donors. Inaddition, their
experience and expertise will be available throughtheir involvement inthe Project Steering
Committee, which is expected to meet once a month.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Because o f the small amount of grant resources, the option of financing some physical
investments was not considered worthwhile. Among the choices for technical assistance, there
were several candidate projects, i.e., feasibility study for a new lignite mine and a power plant,
institutional development of KEK, investigation o f renewable energy potential, rehabilitation of
mines, power plant efficiency, preparation of a distribution master planbut the discussions with
the authorities, Kosovo institutions, and the donors, including EAR, led to the choice o f the Bank
supporting a broader strategic technical assistance program focusing on strengthening KOSOVO~S
integration into the region and to complement donor efforts inthis highpriority area.




                                                   11

One alternative considered for the miningsector was to continue with status quo arrangements,
inwhich resource decisions would bemade on an "as-needed`' basis. This was rejected because
inthe past donor coordination hasbeenweak, assistancehasbeen ad hoc, and strategic
investments were not being made. Furthermore, absent an overarching resource development
strategy and prioritization o f investment needs, resource development decisions cannot move out
infront ofissuesthat negatively impact future development (i.e. coordinated land-use planning).
Inlightofdeclining donor assistanceto the sector andlimitedpublic resources, a strategic long
term plan needs to be prepared to ensure prioritization and sequencing o f investments,
coordination o fpossible future donor assistance to the miningsector, and to guide future lignite
development projects under a progressive economic, social, and environmental framework.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements

The EAR and CIDA are hndingparallel operations to help incorporation o fKEK and the TSO,
strengthen institutional capacity o fthe ERO, andprepare a blue print for market design.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

Institutional and implementation arrangements were confirmed ina communication from the
Recipient and are more fully described inthe Project ImplementationPlan (PIP) o fFebruary
2005. The Grant Agreement will be signed by the Recipient. The Ministryo f Energy andMining
will be the Project ImplementingEntityandhave the overall responsibility o fproject
implementation and coordination with several institutions involved inimplementationo f sub-
components as follows:

      k MinistryofEnergyandMining(MEM):(i) aminingsector strategy, (ii)
                                                        develop
         develop detailed guidelines andprocedures for community consultation, participation,
      >   andpreparingcommunity development plans;
          Energy Regulatory Office: develop transmission andretail tariffs;
      k KTA: institutional development ofTSO;
      >   ICMM: technical assistance to small miningoperators (SMEs) to improve their
          technical, financial, and environmental performance.

 The MEM,inconsultation with UNMIKandthe agencies responsible for different sub-
 components, will manage procurement, negotiate contracts, supervise progress, and process
 payments through Ministry o f Finance andEconomy (MFE) and UNMIK. The MEMwill
 prepare withdrawal applications and submit to MFEfor their signature. The applications will be
 forwarded to the Association through UNMIK.

 A Project Steering Committee (PSC), withrepresentatives o fUNMIK,MEM,ERO,KTA, and
 ICMM, has been established to coordinate the activities o f various agencies involved in
 implementationo f sub-components, and also provide guidance and advice on implementation
 of the project, terms o f reference o f the consultants, selection o f consultants, and compliance
 with Bank's procurement guidelines andprocedures. The PSC will reinforce ownershipwithin




                                                   12

 local institutions, reviews consultant's outputs for quality and internal consistence among the
 components, and consultation with local institutions, donors, and other stakeholders.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

The Ministry o f Energy and Miningwill be responsible for monitoring the progress against
agreed performance indicators described inSection B.2 and Annex 3. A small group o f staff,
with the necessary skills, will be assigned to manage this project. The MEMwill monitor the
performanceo f the consultants inaccordance with the contract, review and approve the project's
inception reports, mid-term reports, and final reports issued by the consultants. A quarterly
report on the project implementation will be submitted by MEMthrough UNMIKto the
Association as per the formats agreed duringthe Negotiations. Based on the Bank's review o f
the quarterly reports and outcomes o f the supervision missions, measures will betaken to ensure
the project's subcomponents are completed without delay and achieve their planned outcomes.

4. Sustainability

The authorities have demonstrated ownership and a commitment to sustainability of the project
through the creation of the Ministry o f Energy and Mining, implementing measures to fulfill
commitments under the Athens Memorandum, creating a Steering Committee from a diverse
group o f stakeholders, andconvening on a regular basis to plan and implement the project.

The longterm sustainability o f the project benefits depends on continuation o f Kosovo's energy
strategy based on regional integration. Kosovo is not likely to change this strategy, andreduce
its participation inthe regional energy market and its institutions, since its political future,
economic development, and fulfillment o f its strong desire to eventually integratewith Europe
depend, among other actions, on its active participation inthe regional institutions. All its laws,
policies, and institutions are being gradually aligned with the directives o fthe EuropeanUnion.
An indicator o fthis strongdesire is the recent reconnectiono fthe power system o fthe South
East Europe Region, including Kosovo, with the main Europeanpower system operated by
UCTE.

The miningcomponent enjoys the same commitments to sustainability. The authorities have
demonstrated a commitment through the creation o f the Ministry o f Energy andMining, seeking
to improve policy decisions inthe sector and facilitate strategic investments. The community
participation and development planwill strengthen sustainability by ensuringbenefits to those
communities most impactedby miningprojects. Key mineral resources form the comerstone o f
future economic development strategies. Lignite resources offer good prospects to facilitate
export o fpower and foreign earnings. Likewise, ongoing budgetary support o f Trepca
demonstrates commitment to recovery o f the asset to prepare it for resumption o f mining, export
eamings, and eventual privatization. With prioritization, strategic investment decisions relating
to these resources and others will lead to growth o f the sector andprovide needed economic
growth.




                                                  13

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

The critical risks to the project are: (i)
                                         inadequate capacity o f the recently created institutions,
i.e., MEM, and the ERO, to manage the projects and absorb the full benefits o f technical
assistance, (ii)inability to select competent consultants, and (iii)difficulty incoordination among
several agencies that have to cooperate inefficient delivery o f outputs bythe consultants.
However, implementation arrangements described in Section C.2 are considered adequate to
mitigate these risks.

Inthe energy component ofthe proposed technical assistance, we do not see any controversial
issues. One o fthe aspects inthe miningsector component that can potentially become
controversial is the development o fpolicy and guidelines for communication, participation, and
development plans for local communities that may be affectedby future mining. Inthe event o f
unsatisfactory implementation o f these policies infuture, the effectiveness o f these policies could
come under question.

6. Grant conditions and covenants

Effectiveness Condition: The standard Bank requirements, and submissionby UNMIKo f legal
opinion on the agreements executed bythe Recipient andthe executing agencies, shall apply.

Other Conditions
MEM will maintain a project financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The
project's financial statements will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank commencing with the accounts for the year ending
December 31,2006. The annual audited statements and audit report will be provided to the Bank
within six months o fthe end o feach fiscal year.

The audits will need to be conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing
(ISA) as issuedbythe WAC andon terms ofreference acceptable to the Association.

MEMwillmaintainacceptable project financial management onacashbasis ofaccounting
including additional commitment information as explained inAnnex 7.

D. APPRAISALSUMMARY
1. Economic and financial analyses

Formal costhenefit analyses are normally not done for technical assistance activities. An
economic evaluation o fthe proposedstudies is not planned to be carried out because o fthe
difficulty o fmeasuringand separating out the benefits o f the information provided by the studies
from the overall expected benefits o f the projects that would make use o f the study results.

2. Technical

No technical issues are anticipated.




                                                  14

The requirements for participation inthe regional energy market are defined inthe Athens
Memorandum. Under the Athens Memorandum participating countries agree to: (a) develop a
functioning electricity market including the agreed market liberalization targets; and (b) integrate
it into the internal electricity market o f the European Union. Inorder to develop a regional
energy market, the Memorandum requires the establishment o f compatible national electricity
market models, inline with EUDirective in forces (Dir 96/92) andthe EuropeanCommission's
new proposals, once adopted. Some o f the key steps to be taken by Kosovo to comply with the
Athens Memorandum are to: (i)      adopt an energy strategy, (ii)
                                                                establish an independent regulator
and adopt a transmission tariff methodology for non-discriminatory access, (iii)  establish an
independent Transmission and System Operator, and adopt and implement the GridCode, and
(iv) tariffs and payments shouldbe cost-covering, and a social safety net should be inplace to
protect the poor.

An energy sector strategy hasbeendevelopedthrough ESTAP-I. Necessary energy laws
(Kosovo Assembly Law No. 2004/8 on the Energy Regulator, 2004/9 OnEnergy, and 2004/10
On Electricity) were promulgatedinJune 2004. An Energy RegulatoryOffice was established in
September 2003. ESTAP-I11would help Kosovo meet some o fthese obligations through
providing technical assistance for institutional development o f the TSO, including development
o f the Grid Code; developingtransmission and retail tariffs; and developing a subsidy delivery
mechanism for the poor.

3. Fiduciary
Procurement. There will be a maximum o f five consultancy contracts. The procedure for
selection o fthe consultants will be inaccordance with the Fixed-Budget Selectionmethod to
ensure that the contract prices are not higher thanthe allocated budget. The requests for
proposals would be issuedduringproject preparation, and the proposals received and evaluated
for awarding the contracts shortly thereafter. The evaluation teams will include representatives o
the Ministryo fEnergy andMining,UNMKPillar IV, ERO, KTA, KEK, andthe ICMM. The
Ministry o f Energy andMiningwill employ a staff experienced inprocurement under Bank-
financedprojects to ensure compliance o f the process with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection
o f Consultants.

The financial management arrangements o fthe project are acceptable to the Association. As o f
the date o fthis report, the Recipient is incompliance with its audit covenants o fthe existing
Bank-financed project. Current project financial statements and auditing arrangements for the
two previous ESTAI's are acceptable and it has been agreed that these arrangements will be
replicated for ESTAI' I11taking into account that this project will be implemented bythe newly
established Ministry o f Energy andMining.The annual auditedproject financial statements will
be provided to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year.

An OperationalFinancialAccountability Report was finalized inNovember 2004. Despite
significant progress since 2001,public financial management inKosovo suffers from
fundamental weaknesses, andbasic structures for financial accountability are still intheir
infancy. The overall legal framework for budgeting andbudget management is largely
compatible with internationally recognized standards, but for some aspects it appears to be too
advanced for the current administration's capacity. Carry-over practices andweaknesses in



                                                    15

capacity, organization and coordination hamper budget preparation and undermine the credibility
of the budget as a policy management instrument.While treasury and cash management are well-
regulated areas o fpublic financial management, they suffer from inefficiencies. The system
through which Commitment and Payment Orders flow to ensure authorization o fpayments is
well regulated. The Treasury authorizes commitments and payments based on proposals and
supporting documentationby budget organizations and municipalities. The Treasury pays from a
single account inthe central Banking and Payment Authority o fKosovo (BPK).

As with most public financial management functions, accounting is constrained by limited
capacity, and financial reporting needs more realistic requirements and statutory deadlines,
improved procedures, and trained personnel. Internal control and internal audit at all levels o f
government are intheir infancy. Considerable time and effort will be required to make them fully
operational. Extemal audit is undevelopedand, as with internal audit, it will need sustained
external support for its development. Specific procedures are developed by MEMto secure
proper financial accountability o f this project.

The banking sector inKosovo i s still inits infancy. Therefore the bankingarrangements inplace
for the first two ESTAPs that were adjudgedto be satisfactory will be maintained for this project.
While payments for technical assistance will be made as direct payments from the Bank to the
consultants, any recurrent cost will be reimbursed to MFEbased on appropriate documentation.

4. Social

Social
Although the technical assistance provided bythe project will deal with tariffissues andthat may
have different social impacts, the project itself does not present significant social issues. The
terms o freference for consultancies will highlightrelevant social issues, ifany, and offer
guidance on how they are to be handled. The miningcomponent will include assistance on
developing a framework for consultation, participation, andcommunity development plans and
review any gaps inpolicies and procedures for mitigating social impacts that may need to be
addressedto ensure sustainability for communities affected bymining. This will ensure that
communities that may be affected by future miningprojects would benefit from transparent
policies and guidelines for communication andparticipation inpreparation o f community
development plans, and land-use decisions according to Bank andinternational standards.
Further,the miningsector component will help create capacityinthe MinistryofEnergy and
Mining(MEM)andthe Independent Commission for Mines andMinerals (ICMM) inKosovo to
(a) integrate environmental and social issues intheir mining sector strategy and the mining sector
Strategy to beprepared by the consultants, funded through the proposedIDA Grant, and (b)
strengthen the capacity o f the I C M M to provide technical advice to the SMEs (small mining
operators, e.g., sand quarrying and stone crushing etc.) to improve inter-alia their environmental
performance and environmental compliance. The specific consultant contracts will include
requirements that assistance will be guided by Bank Safeguard policies andprocedures.
Compliance will be supervised closely.




                                                  16

Environment
Inaccordance with World Bank safeguard policies on environment (OP/BP/GP4.0I
Environmental Assessment) the project was assigned Category C, indicating that no
environmental issues are anticipated. This was based upon the project design which is primarily
technical assistance and does not include any physical construction activities. Infact, the project
i s likely to have future environmental benefits because technical assistance to ICMMis included
for improvements inthe environmental performance o f small miningoperations (SMEs).

Although the project will not finance any investments, it will provide technical assistance in
community development and social impact mitigation matters, and integration of environmental
issues in sector strategy. Dissemination of information and consultation with multiple
stakeholders, inparticular with the civic society, i s included inthe scope ofwork of consultants
(Annex 4). Consultant contracts will require the assistance rendered to be consistent with Bank
Safeguard Policies. Compliance will be supervised closely.

The Bank's supervision of both social and environmental aspects will ensure that the advice
providedby the consultants to Kosovo authorities is consistent with the Bank's safeguards
policies and with the Bank's position on the Extractive Industries Review.


5. Safeguard policies

   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                    N o
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [I                    [XI
   Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [I                    [XI
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                    [XI
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 [I                    [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [I                    [XI
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                  [I                    [XI
   Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    [I                    [XI
   Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [I                    [XI
   Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [I                    [XI
   Projects on Intemational Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      11                    [XI


 6. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
 There are no policy exceptions.




 * By supportingtheproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
 disputed areas



                                                              17

                     Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background
                   KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11


The Kosovo economy prior to civil conflict in 1999 had been damaged bypoor economic
policies, broken external trade and financial links, international sanctions, a lack o finvestment in
key sectors, and ethnic conflict. The post-conflict reconstructionprogram has proceeded well,
and official aid flows have resulted inrecovery o f economic activity and positive growth.
However, this growth i s not likely to be sustainable and official aid flows have started declining.
Despite post-conflict economic recovery, poverty inKosovo i s wide spread. Out o f a population
o f about 2 million almost 36% livebelow poverty line, and about 47% o fthe population is
unemployed - significantly higher than any Balkan country. About halfo f its population is
below the age o f 24, o f which more than 40% are unemployed.

After the conflict, Kosovo was placed under the administration o fthe UnitedNations Interim
Administration MissioninKosovo (UNMIK) under the terms o fUNSecurity Council
Resolution 1244. In2001,a Constitutional Framework was agreed establishing the Provisional
Institutions o f Self-Government (PISG). Although the UNMIKretains final legal authority and
certainreserve powers, including on energy and mining sectors, there is a continued transition to
self-government with the PISG assuming significant responsibility on matters relating inter-alia
to economic policy, trade, and investment. Inthe PISG, a new Ministry o f Energy andMining
has been established inDecember 2004 with the responsibility for definingpolicies and fiture
development strategies o f energy andminingsectors. InJune 2002, Kosovo Trust Agency
(KTA) was established byUNMIKandentrusted with the responsibilityo f inter-alia managing
the energy and mining sector enterprises, restructuring the Publicly Owned Enterprises (POEs),
and privatizing Socially OwnedEnterprises (SOEs). This fragmentationo fpolicy and
implementationresults ina challenging environment for the energy and mining sectors.

The Kosovo Economic Memorandum (KEM)2004 concludes that the prospects for economic
growth will largely depend upon two overarching and inter-dependent factors (i)      implementation
o f a policy program that promotes private sector led growth, and (ii)   the maintenance o fpeace
and security for all peoples o fthe region anda clarification o fthe political andlegal
arrangements. Investorswill also require some assurance over continuation o f liberal economic
policies and institutional stability and the rule o f law. Prospects for addressing the issue o f
KOSOVO'S status are linkedto achieving a set ofstandards. These standards aimto ensure
           political
that functioning democratic institutions, the rule o f law, sound economic legislation andpolicy
framework. Improving prospects for growth are critical for addressing the highrates o f
unemployment, which i s itselfa contributing factor to the security and stability situation.

The KEMalso identified energy and mining sectors as potential sources o f growth provided
existing infrastructure is rehabilitated, industry is restructuredinlinewith the regional electricity
market, and private sector investors are brought into expand power generation andmining
business for export.

KOSOVO'S   long-term future lies indeepening its integrating with the region and eventually with
Europe. Through UNMIK,Kosovo is a signatory to the Athens Memorandum for establishment



                                                   18

of a regional energy market called Energy Community o f South East Europe (ECSEE). This
initiative sponsored by the Stability Pact i s fully supported by the Bank through policy advice,
technical assistance and financing investments through a new facility called ECSEE Adaptable
Program Loan (APL).Participation inECSEE is expected to create significant opportunities for
Kosovo to use its abundant and competitive energy and miningresources for supply to meet
growing energy demand inthe regional market.

The Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo states that broad-based growth is critical to reduce
poverty inand provide opportunities for all communities. Needingto emerge from an economy
based on post-conflict reconstruction and sustain the transition to a market economy, unreliable
electricity supply i s seen as the main obstacle to growth across Kosovo. Restructuring of large
publicly-owned companies (POE) that dominate the energy andminingsectors is vital for
medium-term growth.

Energy
Kosovo's energy sector i s dominated by the KorporataEnergjetike e Kosoves (KEK), a POE
characterized by dilapidated infrastructure, large technical andnon-technical losses including
pilferage o f electricity, poor billingand collection rates, overstaffing and low productivity, and
inefficient labor practices. KEK and electricity generation overall remains a reserve power under
the control o fUNMIK, within a highlypolitical environment.

Kosovo's main energy resource is its extensive geologic reserves o f highcalorific value lignite, a
resource that is rapidly being covered by urban sprawl andother unregulated surface
development. Kosovo has no other fossil fuel resources, natural gas import and supply
infrastructure, nor oil refinery, and only modest hydroelectric potential. At present, the power
sector is unable to deliver 24-hour supply and additional costs are borne by businesses and
households usingtheir own stand-by generators. The electricity network covers almost 100
percent o f the households, i s organized as a vertically integratedutility, and remains a truncated
portion o f the former Yugoslav electric system. Kosovo can only meet its domestic demand on
the basis o f exporting surplus electricity generation duringoff-peak hours, and importing fiom
the neighboring power systems duringpeak hours on energy exchange and commercial basis.

Currently, its nominal installed generation capacity o f about 1,5 13 MW (net available capacity
 1055 MW) i s only able to generate about 700 MW on account o f old age ofthe units, decades o f
inadequate maintenance, physical damage caused duringthe conflict and further damage by
lightningto a large generation plant Kosovo B. Consequentlysurplus base-load power
generation has shrunk, and Kosovo has become a net importer o f electricity. This has ledto
serious power shortages, and load shedding (roaming blackouts), forcing households and
businesses to use small standby generating sets using imported liquid fuels.

Gross operating inefficiencies o fKEKpersist. Despite a reasonable average electricity tariff o f
about 0.06 per kWhat the retail level, KEKremains a financial drain on public resources. KEK
bills against only 57-65 percent o f power generated, and collects on only about 55-65 percent o f
the amount billed. In2002 only about 34 percent of the gross available power was converted into
revenues, as opposed to an industrybenchmark o f 90 percent. Lost revenues are estimated at
109 million or about 8.5 percent o f the GDP. KEK's accounts receivable far exceeded the



                                                    19

value of its annual sales and the utility is technically insolvent, and dependent on public revenues
and donor assistance for rehabilitation of assets, maintenance needs, and net imports of power.

A tumaround management contractor (TAM) assumed management inAugust, 2004 andreports
current arrears o f 90 million. Strong political will and significant capital investments will be
requiredto increase electricity production for domestic consumption and export earnings. Much
will depend on the success o f sector reforms and improvements inKEK's performance.

Mining
KOSOVO'S industry prior to 1999was asignificant source o feconomic activity, providing
            mining
direct employment to more than 17,000 miners. After years of chronic neglect, only the lignite
mines are continuing to produce - carried by a need to sustain the generation o f electricity at
Kosovo A and Bpower plants. Iffully recovered, the sector offers substantial growth
opportunities with a projected annual tumover o f 250 million. However, such a planwould
require an estimated investment o f about 250 million.11 The private sector is needed to recover
metallic and industrial mineral operations, and will play a significant role infuture lignite
development.

Sustained lignite supply i s highlydependent on development o f the Sibovc field prior to
depletion o f existing operations inlate 2009. There is no long-range lignite development policy,
including the allocation o f future resources inthe Sibovc field between KEK and other
developers. KEK's two operating mines are starved o f hnding needed for rehabilitation andtum
around management is preparing an action planand associated budget requirements to sustain
lignite production through the end of2009. Four key determinants could interrupt or impede
ongoing lignite supply: a) the need to maintainpublic safety around Hade village; b) the need to
meet emergency capital expenditures andretum the mines to a safe working condition once Hade
is resettled; c) major equipment failures on key productionunits; and d) ongoing landslides that
threaten both the village and mine.

Scenarios that describe possible production short-falls and/or disruptions o f lignite supplydefine
potential bottlenecks through late 2009 when existing reserves are exhausted. Emergency
investments of5 million andmonthly maintenance o f3 million will be necessary to sustain
lignite production. Development o fthe Sibovc field will need to commence in2005 iflignite
supply is to be sustained beyond 2009. A draft interim report being funded bythe EARconfirms
that altemative mine development scenarios to the east and south o f existing operations have
effectively been eliminated, makingminingto the north out o fthe existing KEK operations into
the Sibovc field the likely strategy. Should emergency reserve development be needed, KEK
may recover modest reserves under an ash dump pile. The miningcost o f a new Sibovc
operation can be lowered to a reasonable 5-6/ton, based on a number o f future development
alternatives. Engineeringcost analysis funded by the EARis ongoing, with interim reports
estimating an average o f 150 and up to 230 million required for a combination o f
rehabilitation to KEK's current operation anda new mine extending northward into the Sibovc
field. A capital cost estimate up to 320 millionhas beenprovided for a combination o fKEK's



 1 1Estimates reported inthe Kosovo: MiningSector Note, and based on a five-year recovery strategy that includes
development of the Sibovc lignite field and resumption of miningat Trepca and Ferronikeli.


                                                       20

existing mines (rehabilitated) and a second mine established innorth Sibovc. Final engneering
cost analyses are expected inlate Spring 2005.

KOSOVO'S resources includesignificant deposits ofiron-nickel at Ferronikeli, lead-zinc
          metallic
at Trepca, magnesite at Golesh and Stolezc, and bauxite in smaller SME's. Prior to 1999 the
mines were a principal source o f economic activity providing employment (17,000), highannual
tumover (inexcess o f $200 million), and strong export earnings. Mines are now crippled by
chronic neglect and under-investment, resulting in a strong decline inproduction output and
increase inenvironmental and social legacy issues. Only the lignite mines are operating. The
unresolved status o f Kosovo and limitations imposed by an inability to grant miningand
exploration licenses is preventingquality investors from facilitating sector recovery. Without
significant foreign investment, a domino o f exacerbating issues is likely: (i)
                                                                              interim recovery
strategies at several metal miningoperations cannot be sustained indefinitely on government
budgets, (ii) operations cannot recover without major capital improvements, and are dependent
on FDI, and (iii)  unemployedworkers are increasingly agitating for additional financial
assistance. A divergence o f opinion between UNMIK,PISG, and the donor community on an
overarching sector strategy and public frustration is manifest inongoing social unrest.
Smaller mines, principally construction materials producers (aggregate and crushed stone) are
impededbyunlicensedoperations that impart significant environmental damage and erode the
competitiveness o f legitimate operations. A source o fpotential SME growth, significant
technology transfer is needed to improve industry efficiencies and the quality o f material going
into donor-funded infrastructure development.

Sources of Growth
KEKhasbeenneither re-capitalizednorhas adequate reserves. Inthe absenceoflegal
empowerment, adequate political and administrative support from the authorities for
enforcement o f law, investments to improve supply and service to the customers, andincentives
for the staff, it may achieve only marginal improvements. Kosovo B1and B2 units have been
rehabilitated to an operating state which improves the reliability o fKosovo B generating units.
However, lack o f financing for rehabilitation o fKosovo A (A3 to A5) has affected its reliability,
operational efficiency, and cost of generation due to highfuel consumption. Delay indecision on
rehabilitation o f Kosovo A i s only worsening the situation. Shouldthe authorities decide not to
invest inKosovo A, financing will be required for a new lignite mine andplant, inall probability
through a combination o fpublic andprivate investment, reflecting the current environment o f
highpolitical riskandlack ofcreditworthinesso fKEK.Inanticipationofthis eventuality, the
DSRSG announced inAugust 2004 proactive planning steps for the establishment o f a new
power plant and mine. A single-purpose project planning organization is being formed within
UNMIK. Itis expected that five years of predevelopmentstudies, permitting, andconstruction
will be required.

Kosovo authorities have prepared an action plan for complying with obligations under the
Athens Memorandum for integration into the ECSEE. Donor support has beenrequested for
fundingthe technical assistance and institutional development o fthe Energy Office (since
 absorbed into the newly established MEM),the Electricity Regulatory Office, andfor
restructuring o f KEK to create a Transmission and System Operator (TSO). Near term actions to
be implementedare:



                                                 21

   0   Create and incorporate a TSO. This will also necessitate (a) restructuring o fKEK, (b)
       apportionment of assets, liabilities, staff, and contracts between the new entities, (c)
       implementation o f a revised organization structure in the new entities, and (d) mapping
       the skill-gaps and providing training for smooth functioning o f the TSO;
   0   Electricity Regulator to issue Transmission license to the TSO, and Generation and
       Distribution and Supply licenses to KEK.The ERO should notify the regulation for
       licenses, application procedures, terms and conditions o f licenses, and its review and
       decisionprocess. The utilities will need to prepare license applications and comply with
       regulatoryprocedures. The I C M M has to issue mininglicense to KEK for operatingthe
       mines for power generation plants, i.e., Kosovo A and B;
   0   Un-bundle KEK's tariff into generation, transmission, and distribution and supply tariff.
       The EROshould develop tariff methodologies and tariffreview process, inaccordance
       with, yet to be drafted, regulationwhich may require public consultation. The utilities
       will needto prepare separate applications for generation, transmission, and distribution
       tariffs;
   0   Define the new technical codes, e.g., Grid Code, Distribution Code, and Metering Code.
       The technical codes are to'be developed by the utilities, reviewed and approved by the
       regulator. These codes have to be harmonized with the regional energy market
       guidelines;
    0  Develop and implement the system operation rules which should conform to the regional
       guidelines;
    0  Develop market rules.

Prospects for growth o f the miningsector depend upon implementationo f a strategy that
promotes private-sector led investments within a competitive business environment. Attention
mustbe givento policies that are directed towards long-range development strategies while
providing social andenvironmental safeguards. Underlyingthese policies is the need for vision-
buildingand dialogue on key social objectives for the sector. Relatively little o fthese latter
processes have taken place given an institutional capacity deficit on mineral resource issues
within the PISG. As such, a central axis o fthe program is capacity buildingtowards creationo f
a sustainable miningpolicy, guidelines for development, and concurrent institutional
strengthening. Broad objectives include:
    0  vision-building insupport o f long-range development plans for the sector;
    0   strengthening o f institutions and capacity buildingon mining-related issues, inorder to
       increase the competitiveness o fthe industry and attract quality investors that will provide
       both short-term and long-term benefits to Kosovo;
    0   formalization o funlicensedminingoperations, and strengthening o f the small-to-medium
        enterprises inthe sector;
    0   looking to green-field exploration opportunities inaddition to potential within existing
       mines and metallurgical plants;
    0  giving consideration to magnesia production assets and other industrial mineral deposits
        currently not inproduction.




                                                  22

       Annex 2: M a j o r Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies


                   KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11

Major related projects financed by the Association within the energy sector include:
   e   Energy Sector Technical Assistance I(ESTAP I), 2001- December 2002, rated
                                                           April
       Satisfactory at ICR.
       Energy Sector Technical Assistance I(ESTAP 11) May 2003 (ongoing), rated Highly
       Satisfactory by QAG for quality at entry.

Donor activity inthe sectors has fallen significantly since 2002. The more recent donor
assistance relatedto energy sector i s listedbelow12:
       Management development and technical assistanceto KEK-March 2002 to August
       2004.
       KEKskills development August 2004to January2006.
                                      -
       Supplyof electrical equipment-Lot 1Zabel, September 2004 to December 2004.
       Scoping, installation, and supervision of the computerized maintenanceand management
       system- July 2004 to August 2005.
       Kosovo B substation work -July 2004 to November 2004.
       Pre-feasibility for new power plant andpollutionmitigation at Kosovo B-November
       2004 -February2005.
       Institutional support to PMO Energy Office and Regulatory Office- September 2004 to
       December2004.
       Rehabilitation o f Mitrovicadistrict heating-August 2004 to November 2004.

Intheminingsector, donor activities are restricted to corresponding assistanceto lignite mining:
    e  Repair ofbucket-wheel excavators -KEKmining, December 2002 to July 2004, Mine
       roads andde-watering channels -KEKmining, July 2004.
    e  Environmental actions inmines -KEKmining September 2004 -ongoing.




l2
 Projects with a total value inexcess of $0.5 million.


                                                      23

                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                     KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-111

                                           Results Framework

                 PDO                       Outcome Indicators             Use of Outcome Information
(i) Kosovo'sintegration
   Support                           [i) The Transmission and System      Effective participation inECSEE
with the regional energy market      Operator operating under
through assistance for               harmonized technical rules o f
implementation o f its immediate     operation for a locally unbundled
obligations under the Athens         andregionally interconnected
Memorandum                           system.

                                     (ii) Non-discriminator transmission  Approval o f tariffs by the regulator;
                                     tariffs for thirdparty access, and   help large consumers source their
                                     new retail tariff system, including  supplyfromregional market;
                                     subsidy delivery mechanism           implementation o f subsidy delivery
                                     adopted.                             mechanismby the authorities.


(ii)Develop a policy framework and   (i) miningsectorstrategy
                                         The                              Basis for attracting investments in
institutional capacity for the       approved by PISG and UNMIK,          the mining sector
utilization o f Kosovo's mining      published, publicly available and
resources                            used as the basis for managing
                                     Kosovo's miningresources.

                                     (ii) Improved capacity of the SMEs   SMEs become competitive suppliers
                                     to operate small quarrying and       o f quality materials; Risk assessment
                                     miningbusinesses.                    bylenders o f SMEs



      Intermediate Results            Results Indicators for Each           Use of Results Monitoring
      One per Component                           Component
ComponentOne:                        ComponentOne:                        ComponentOne:
Subcomponent 1                       Subcomponent 1                       Subcomponent 1

Establishment o f the Transmission   (i) Development o f a GridCode       Progress reports, supervision
and System Operator                  (ii) Developmento f the              missions, report reviews, expert
                                     organizational design for the TSO    assessments, workshops and staff
                                     including the TSO contractual        training
                                     agreements and performance
                                     indicators for use by the TSO
                                     business unit managers
ComponentOne:                        ComponentOne:                        ComponentOne:
Subcomponent2                        Subcomponent 2                       Subcomponent2

Development o f a tariff framework   Development of:                      Progress reports, supervision
                                     (i)transmissiontariffs               missions, report reviews, expert
                                     (ii)ancillaryservicescharges         assessments, workshops and staff
                                     (iii) tariffs
                                           retail                         training
                                     (iv) a subsidy delivery mechanism




                                                        24

Component Two:                     ComponentTwo:                       Component Two:
Subcomponent 1                     Subcomponent 1                      Subcomponent1

Development o f a Miningsector     Development of:                      Progress reports, supervision
strategy                           (i)assessmentofeconomicpotential     missions, report reviews, expert
                                   o f the sector                       assessments, workshops and staff
                                   (ii)listofprioritizedactionsteps,
                                        a                               training
                                   roles and responsibilities
ComponentTwo:                      Component Two:                       Component Two:
Subcomponent2                      Subcomponent2                        Subcomponent2

Development o f a framework for    Development of:                      Progress reports, supervision
consultation and preparation of a  (i) guidelines for community         missions, report reviews, expert
Community development plan         consultation                         assessments, workshops and staff
                                   (ii) guidelines for community        training
                                   development plans consistent with
                                   Bank Safeguard policies and
                                    international best practice

ComponentTwo:                      Component Two:                       Component Two:
Subcomponent3                      Subcomponent3                        Subcomponent3

SMEcapacity development             Development of:                     Progress reports, supervision
                                    (i) guidelines to SMEs for improved missions, report reviews, expert
                                   performance                          assessments, workshops and staff
                                   (ii) qualitystandards
                                        product                         training




                                                      25

m
Y

        m     m    in    m"
                   Y     Y




xE 2
   , &
Q 2a    nE 2a


                              Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                   KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11


Project Component 1:Energy Sector

Subcomponent 1-Establishment of TransmissionSystem Operator in Kosovo
US$ 0.8 million

The tasks to be carried by the Consultants to achieve the objectives o f the technical assistance
are:

TASK 1: GRID CODE

The Consultants shall develop a Grid Code that will define the relationship between the TSO and
inter-connectors and their respective responsibilities. The Grid Code will cover all material
technical aspects relating to planning, interconnection, operation and use o f the transmission
system. The Grid Code will be designed to permit the development, maintenance, and operation
o f an efficient, coordinated and economical system for the transmission o f electricity inKosovo.
The GridCode will include, among others:

    a) technical and design criteria and procedures for planning and development o f the
        transmission system to be taken into account by inter connectors in planning the
        expansion o f their own systems;
    b) technical rules establishing the minimum technical design and operational requirements
        for interconnection to the network;
    c) scheduling and dispatch requirements to be followed by inter connectors relating to the
        scheduling and dispatch o f generating units, while taking into account the required supply
        reliability;
    d) procedures applicable for network operationincontingency situations;
    e) procedures for coordination o f the outages for the scheduled maintenance o f the
        transmission system and connectors;
    f) metering,      protection   and   communication       requirements   and standards       for
        interconnections; and
    g) determine the technical criteria and manner o f calculating the ancillary services for
        reliable and secure operation.

The Grid Code to be developed has to conform with the requirements stipulated by the Athens
process for the development o f a regional electricity market and with the relevant laws in
Kosovo as well as ERO's timeframe requirements. The development o f the Grid Code must take
into account issues that may arise from consultations with other transmission system owners and
operators participating in the regional electricity market. In addition to the Grid Code, the
Consultants shall prepare other technical codes necessary for the operation o f the transmission
system.




                                                29

The deliverable o f this task is a report that includes all the elements of the developed Grid Code
that must be submittedto ERO.

TASK 2: TRANSMISSION POLICY FRAMEWORK

This task includesperforming the following:

a.        Assessment of the TSO Final Status

I t i s assumed that bythe commencement o f this technical assistance the stakeholders o f the
power system inKosovo have decided on the final status o f the TSO with regardto its legal,
ownership and commercial relationship with KEK and others potentialplayers inthe power
systemo fKosovo. Based on that decision the Consultants shall prepare and deliver a strategy for
the transition o fthe TSO from current status to the final status agreed upon by the stakeholders.

b.        Role of the TSO inMarket Operation

It is assumed that the basic electricity market structure will have been defined by promulgated
legislation, which, among others, demand the creation o f the Transmission and System Operator.
The Consultants shall develop a discussion paper that will clearly define the role o f the newly
established TSO within the restructuredKosovo electricity industry and regional ESCEE market
and to recommend its roles and responsibilities with regard to buying and selling capacity and
ancillary services and facilitating trading o f electricity within Kosovo and inthe regional market.
The discussion paper will develop recommendations for development o f markets for energy,
capacity and ancillary services.      The recommendation o f the discussion paper should be in
accordance with the promulgatedlegislation inKosovo as well as Athens process.

c.        Rule of the TSO in Congestion Management System

The Consultants shall assist the TSO inunderstanding congestion management systems which
will be developed on a regionalbasis to facilitate regional electricity trades consistent with the
requirements o f Athens process. The Consultants shall prepare procedures andoperational
guidelines necessary for the TSO to implement requirements of the regional congestion
management systems. The Consultants shall also identify and define requirements, ifany, for
hardware and software systems necessary to implement the requirements o f newly developed
congestion management systems. The deliverables o f this task will be a report including the set
o foperatingprocedures andrequirements for implementation o f regional congestion
management system.

TASK 3: INSTITUTIONAL DESIGN

The Consultants shall develop the organizational design necessary for the TSO to assume its
responsibilities as a commercially viable enterprise. Inaddition to the organizational and staffing
evaluation, the Consultants work will include identifying and drafting corporate and business
unit performance indicators for management control.             The Consultants shall also develop
necessary commercial agreements defining the contractual relationships o f the TSO. Therefore,




                                                   30

this task will include assistance for drafting all necessary legal, organizational and commercial
documents required for the operation o f the TSO. The Institutional Design task will include:

a.      Organization Design

The Consultants shall assist the TSO inorganizing its business into its major functions including
butnot limited to:
    a) identify major business functions and boundaries between the TSO strategic business
        units,
    b) identifywork processes and information flows which linkbusiness units,
    c) develop organizational structures for major business units,
    d) identify key management positions and functional responsibilities including operational
        andbudgetary authorities, and
    e) identify staffing levels and skills required to manage and operate major business units o f
        the TSO

A system o freports which consider the issues outlined in"a" through "e" and any other relevant
factors will be prepared and delivered (see Section 5-B for the Organization Design reporting
specific timingrequirements)

b.      PerformanceIndicators

The Consultants shall develop technical and financial performance indicators for use by the
business unit managers and TSO corporate management. The developed performance indicators
will provide objective measurements o f year-to-year technical and financial performance. While
preparing the performance indicators the Consultants shall work closely and consult with
corporate managers in the TSO, and incorporate their views, as appropriate, in the performance
indicators. The deliverable o f this task is a report including a set o f performance indicators, data
miningfromthe TSO information system andamethodology for calculatingthe indicators.

c.      Commercial Agreements

A number o f commercial agreements will be required to define the contractual relationships o f
the TSO. The Consultants shall provide assistance in identifying, drafting and supporting the
negotiation o f the required contracts. The Consultants shall first draft a discussion paper which
identifies by name and scope o f all bilateral and multiparty contracts that may be needed to be
implemented by the TSO. Based on the outcome o f the consultation among key players, the
Consultants shall draft and support the negotiation o fthe following:
    a) Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) for procurement o f generation contracts for balancing
        energy
    b) Ancillary Services contracts
    c) Transmission Agreements for the use o f the transmission system
    d) InterconnectionAgreements
    e) Trading Agreements with other countries andneighboring systems

The deliverables o f these activities will be the commercial agreements identified, drafted and
finalized under this task.


                                                  31

The activities of the Institutional Design task will include considerations of what other ongoing
restructuring projects in Kosovo may require (with respect to the scope of this TOR)while
undertakingthe work specified inthis TORand how these requirements should be met.


Subcomponent2 -Development of Electricity Transmission and Retail Targfs and Subsidy
Delivery Mechanism

US$0.6 million

The tasks to be carried out by the consultants are:
   a. Review the legal & regulatory framework relevant for tariff setting (laws, rules,
       procedures, etc.);
   b. Assess the current procedures for tariff setting;
   c. Assess the last registrationo f fixed assets and economic valuation thereof;
   d. Evaluate the present metering systems usedbyKEK;
    e. Propose the most suitable method for calculation o ftransmission charges;
    f. Evaluate technical possibilities for the provision of ancillary services inKosovo (i.e. by
       KEK) and assess the availability of such (or missing inKosovo) services inthe region,
       assess cost for TSO inoutsourcing such services;

    g. Calculate transmission and ancillary services charges;
    h. Carry out detailedevaluation ofthe current retailtariffstructure, including:
            (i) Numberofcustomercategories

            (ii)   "Block" tariff (i.e. above 800 kWh/month indomestic use)
            (iii) Powerfactorpenalties
            (iv)   Standing (demand) charges

            (v)    Time-of-use tariff variations
            (vi)   Seasonal variations

            (vii)  Charges for customers without meters or without proper meter readings
    i.Evaluatecostsdirectlyassociatedwithcustomers(connection,billing,metering,etc.)that
        are independent from load demand and energy consumption;

   j. Estimate the economic costs of providing electricity at the various voltage levels (110
       kV, 35 kV, 10kV and0.4 kV) duringpeak andoff-peak periods (day and season);
    k. Develop tariff for power generators eligible for preferential dispatching (based on
       renewables, cogeneration etc.), evaluate applicable subsidies, propose a mechanism and
        integrate such costs into the tariff (transmission system);




                                                   32

   1.  Assess applicability o f stranded costs for the power system o f Kosovo, evaluate such
       costs, propose a mechanism and integrate such costs into the tariff system, if applicable;
   m. Assess financing needs for supporting Market Operator and the Regulator through
       transmission / demand charges, propose a mechanism and integrate such costs into the
       tariff system, ifapplicable;
   n. Carry out a financial analysis ofthe respective divisions ofKEKto determine, the proper
       development o f rate base and fair return to determine allowable return on investments
       (based on carefully selected criteria such as target levels for net income after taxes, rate
       o f return on fixed assets, debt service coverage), and allowable levels o f operating
       expenses, in order to define the revenue requirements to enable the supplier to have a
       satisfactory financial performance;
   0. Determine tariff rates for each customer category (including, where feasible, peak and
       off-peak rates, fixed and variable charges, penalties for poor power factor, and
       connection charges, while avoiding excessive complexity) which reflect the economic
       costs as closely as possible while meeting the revenue req~irement'~;this analysis should:

                0    verify whether the existing customer categories are appropriate and whether a
                     more simplified tariff structure should be adopted;

                0    consider the results o f the Heat Market Study when determining the size,
                     structure and applicability o f a block tariff, if needed, for the residential
                     customers. The tariffblock structure may consist o f a single block or multiple
                     blocks with and without space heating; The analysis should consider the
                     appropriateness o f a seasonal variation o f the tariffblock structure;

                     account for the conditions o f the existing metering systems and future
                     metering plans;

    p. Recommendtariff rates for customers without meters or without proper meter readings;
    q. Evaluate the impact o f the estimated tariff rates on households and identify the "basic
       needs'' for electric energy o f low income consumers, on the basis o f which a lifeline tariff
       rate shall be established. The development o f the lifeline tariff should consider the
       appropriateness o f a seasonal variation o f the lifeline tariff. The analysis will as well
       assess subsidy mechanisms for low income energy consumers and propose a clear
       subsidy scheme, e.g., cash transfers to the beneficiaries by the government, Vouchers to
       be used for payment o f electricity consumption, concessional tariff and compensation to
       the service provider, block tariff etc., be provided by the administrative authorities to low
       income consumers;


I 5Revenue requirement are:

       e        Rate-of-return regulation: rates cover total current cost plus return o n assets. The rate o f retum i s
                determined by Regulator (ERO).
       e        Price cap: rates should initially be based on a sound cost study. Subsequently, they are escalated
                 each year by approved inflation forecasts, offset by a percentage required for productivity
                 increase.




                                                        33

   r. Develop a tariff computer-model in support of calculation of transmission charges and
      retail tariffs by TSO and Public Supplier (KEK), respectively, and for checking of the
       calculation by the ERO together with a Manual for its implementation;

   S.  Asses impact o f the expected future unification of the 10kV and 35 kV systems to 20 kV
       system on the tariff structure and rates; define changes to the tariff computer model to
       account for the voltage unification, when implemented;
   t. Train joint TSO-ERO and Public Supplier (KEK)-ERO users' teams inrunningthe tariff
       models;

   U.  Based on inputs from TSO and Public Supplier (KEK), assist TSO and Public Supplier
       (KEK)inpreparingthe lSf for tariff approvals to ERO;
                                   proposal

   V.  For the period 2006-2008, making best estimates on anticipated revenue, energy, and
       demand data, together with other variables, to develop forecasts on transmission and
       retail tariffs development, respectively, inthe mentionedperiod.


ProjectComponent2: MiningSector

A summary o fthe scope o fwork o fthe consultants is described below. Forpublic consultation
ineacho fthesecomponents, the consultants andthe authorities shall follow the goodpractices
developed through ESTAP-I and 11, e.g., disseminate information to the public ina meaningful
way, make the relevant documents available to general public, media announcement for a public
consultation meeting, and keeping a record o fthe consultationprocess.

Subcomponent 1-MiningSector Strategy
US$ 0.5 million

The MiningSector Strategy will:
   0   employ data regardingmines, mineral processingplants, and undevelopedmineral
       resources;
   0   assess the long-run economic outlook andpotential economic contribution o f sites o f
       commercial interest;
   0   develop a set o f action priorities, taking into account the time requiredto re-establish
       operations and expected costs andbenefits;
   0   assess required actions on miningoperations o fPOEs and SOEs ,and other operations o f
       interest and as identifiedby MEMand KTA.

The main tasks to be carried out by the consultants are:
Task 1:Data Collection

Withthe support o fMEMthe Consultant will ensure adequate data support, including (i)        current
andpast mines; (ii)   mineral processingplants; and (iii) undevelopedmineral resources.
                                                          known,
This will include data already housedwithin ICMM's geographic information system (CIS).

Additional thematic data neededto support plandevelopment may includes: areas o fplanned
urban development, parks, habitat management zones, industrial and agricultural land-uses,


                                                  34

transportation, power comdors, and other rights-of-way. Such information i s managed by the
Ministry o fEnvironment and Spatial Planning and Kosovo Cadastral Agency.

The deliverable o f this task is data support, sufficient for preparingthe MiningStrategy and
integration o fmineral resource estimates with environmental and other land-uses.


Task 2: Assess Economic Potential

Consultant shall develop and apply a methodology to assess the long-run economic outlook and
potential economic contribution o fmines and mineral resources and, working with MEMto
identifypotentialminingsites. For each site, Consultant shall assess investment requiredto
achieve various economic outcomes (i.e. alternative development scenarios which should include
assessment and mitigation o f environmental impacts o f different scenarios).

As part o fthis analysis, Consultant shall consider work already undertakento review legal and
fiscal regimes for investment^'^, documenting issues that might be unique to mininginvestment.

The deliverable o f this task is a statement o f economic potential o f the sector including required
levels o f investment and expected economic outcomes (including potential revenues to the
government and levels o f employment).



Task 3: Develop Action Priorities

Consultant shall define and document key issues and required action steps to be taken by
UNMIKandPISGonmineral assetsidentifiedinTask 2 above. Consultant shall:
    0    collaborate with the Kosovo Trust Agency (KTA) to document the privatizationroadmap
         and potential obstacles to privatization.
    0    define a planfor the transparent allocation o f undevelopedmineral resources to the
         private sector. Regarding lignite, Consultant shall work with MEMto ensure that
         allocation o f undeveloped resources is: (i)  consistent with long-range development
         strategies for the sector; and (ii)reflective o f the needs o fboth KEK and potential
         independent power producers inhaving access to sufficient fbture reserves.
    0    document from existing data sources outstanding environmental and social legacy issues
         associated with past miningoperations, including ongoing donor activity and
         coordination by PISG and UNMIK.
    0    Identify key actions that need to be taken by PISG andUNMIKwithin the sector

The deliverable o f this task i s a document o fkey issues andrequired action steps to be taken by
UNMIKandPISG, andongoing socialand environmental legacyissues onmineralassets
identified inTask 2 above




 l4
  World BankEnergySector TechnicalAssistance ProjectI1- Review of the Policy, Legal, Regulatory and
Institutional- DraftFinalReport(Revised January2005) IPA / Norton RoseConsultants.


                                                    35

Task 4: Preparation of a Mining Sector Strategy

Consultant shall define, prepare, and document an integrated Mining Sector Strategy. This
Strategy shall consider the outcome o f Tasks 1- 3 above and include public consultations;
summarized as follows:
        integration o f potential mineral resource development sites with broader land-use plans;
        estimation o f economic outlook and potential contribution o fmine developments to
        government accounts (givingconsideration to scheduling o f future production);
        integration of environmental management;
        key action steps to be taken within PISG andUNMIK;
        the road map for privatization definedby KTA;
        processes to allocate undeveloped mineral resources to the private sector;
        documentationo f social and environmental legacy issues, with reference to World Bank
        social and environmental safeguards and policies and procedures;
        document how the plan adheres to the principles within the World Bank Management
        Response to the Extractive IndustriesReview;
        public consultation on the strategy, definingsector potential and potential impacts
        through resource development.

For the public consultation, the Consultants may wish to capitalize on work relatedto sub-
component 2 -Community Development Plan.

A keytask o fthe consultant inpreparing the MiningSector Strategy will be to cooperate with
the staffo fthe beneficiary in:
    0  preparationo f MiningSector Strategy and implementation plans;
    0  undertake public consultation;
    0  participate indiscussions andprepare presentations to help the adoption process o f
       MiningSector Strategy andimplementationplans;
       dissemination o f the Strategy implementation plans to target groups;
    0  creation o f administrative procedures to support the Strategy implementation plans.

The MiningSector Strategy should allow for spatial andtemporal analysis.

The deliverable of this task is a MiningStrategy, built on outcomes of the above tasks, and
guided by World Bank social and environmental safeguard policies and procedures.


Task 5: Governance and Implementation

Consultant will define an institutional framework for governance andimplementation ofthe
MiningSector Strategy. The framework will emphasize administrative simplicity usingrelatively
few key positions, principally within the MEM.

Consultant shall:
     0  prepare the Mining Sector Strategy Implementation Plan (the "Implementation Plan");




                                                 36

    0    define and document key business processes, ensuringintegration o f the MiningSector
         Strategy with ongoing responsibilities o f the Ministry o f Energy and Miningand relevant
         regulatory bodies.
    0    prepare for MEMsupporting materials for promotion o f MiningSector Strategy and to
         attract international investors to participate inthe development o fthe sector;
    0    dissemination to target groups through public consultation;
   0    creation o f administrative procedures to support the ImplementationPlan.

The ImplementationPlan will include a Gant chart ofkey administrative actions necessary for
implementation for next two years.

The deliverable for this task will be (i) the ImplementationPlan, (ii) business processes for
                                                                       key
MEM,(iii)    supporting materials for promotion, (iv) public consultation, (v) key administrative
procedures and the Gant chart for next two years.

Task 6: Capacitv Buildinz

Institutional
Consultant shall buildinstitutional capacity within the MEMon issues o fmineral policy
development and effective mineral taxation. Capacity buildingshall use as a foundation the
MiningSector Strategy andImplementationPlandefinedabove.

The Consultant shall hold a minimumo f four workshops:
     0   with the MEMon issues o fmining& sustainability, mineralpolicy, mineraltaxation,
         andthe MiningSector Strategy.
     0   withinapublic forum on issues o fmining& sustainability, mineralpolicy, mineral
         taxation, andthe Mining Sector Strategy.

The deliverables for this task will be:
A. Capacity buildingwithinMEMfor a minimumof20 working days on issues relating to:
     0   mineralpolicy development
     0   mineral taxation
     0   working with the Mining Sector Strategy
         adherence to World Bank social and environmental safeguard policies and procedures in
         future resource development andadherence to the principles o fthe World Bank
         Management Response to the Extractive Industries Review.

B.A workshop for the MEMon issues ofmining& sustainability, mineral policy, mineral
taxation, and the MiningSector Strategy.

C. Within apublic forum on issues ofmining& sustainability, mineral policy, and the Mining
Sector Strategy.

Subcomponent 2 -Mining Sector Community Participation and Development Plan
US$ 0.25 million



                                                   37

A miningcompany's social license to operate is earned inlocal communities where social
impacts are greatest. As such policies to address "mining & community" issues are central to
managing investor risk. International investors will look for such policies inevaluating
opportunities inKosovo. The past record inthis regardhas not been good, inthat Kosovo has
communities wholly dependent on mines having finite lives and with few economic alternatives.

To this end, the World Bank Group recommends ensuring that extractive industry benefits reach
   the poor by15:
   0   supporting the principle that communities should benefit from projects that affect them;
   0   committing to work with stakeholders to develop consistent indicators o f the benefits o f
       the extractive industry projects on poverty reduction and to use these to identify and track
       outcomes;
    0  establishing independent monitoring mechanisms inthe largest projects, and encourage
       the development o f capacity incommunities to monitor projects that affect them;
    0  working with governments, sponsors, and communities to ensure that affected
       communities benefit from projects as broadly as possible, including encouraging and
       assisting SME (small-to-medium enterprise) linkages programs.

The consultants shall take into account the Bank's position on Extractive IndustriesReview, as
may berelevant for this scope o f work.

Improvedmineral sector governance will come from two complementary instruments:
    0  PISG's framework for social impacts (landasset acquisition, relocation, resettlement,
       rehabilitation, and impacts on others who may not loose assetsbut will be entitled to
       compensation and other benefits).
    0  PISG's (MEM's) framework for community development, taking a holistic approach to
       regional planningand strategies for sustained growth (the focus o f this scope o fwork).

Both frameworks should of course be consistent, complementary andmutually reinforcing, and
the social impact measures should be adequate for a community development plan to be
satisfactory, acceptable to the community, and sustainable. These are two different instruments
inthat the institutional roles, responsibilities, and deliverymechanisms vary. These terms of
reference require the Consultant to focus on the framework for community development,
checking to ensure consistency and complementarities with the framework for social impacts.

 Consultant shall develop guidelines for:
     0   community consultation frameworks to assess and assign the roles andresponsibilities o f
         the Government, the company(s), NGO's and donors, and local impacted communities
         on measures to address social impacts; and
     0   communitv development framework to integrate project-specific impacts with regional
         social and economic initiatives, and ensure impacted communities share ineconomic
         benefits through direct revenue sharing and direct / indirect economic development.

 The maintasks to be carriedout bythe consultants are:


 15WBGManagement Response to the Extractive Industries Review, September 2004


                                                   38

Task 1: Preparation of Guidelines for Community Consultation Frameworks
Consultant shall:
      document international good practice regarding community consultation and the
       integration o f community into the planning and execution of mineral development
      projects.
       document the current UNMIK/ PISGsocial impact framework, identifying key elements
       that should be consistent and complementary to processes required for community
       consultation;
       as part o fthe workshop described intask 2 below, present the global experience in
       community consultation;
       prepare guidelines for effective community consultation on miningprojects, including
       approaches to assign roles and responsibilities o f government, community, and company;
       and monitoring and reporting on sustainability indicators. These guidelines should
       adhere to World Bank social and environmental safeguard policies andprocedures and
       adhere to the principles within the World Bank Management Response to the Extractive
       IndustriesReview;
       undertake public consultation on the draft guidelines
       prepare a brochure and/or other summary document(s) for public distribution explaining
       the consultation guidelines
       work with the Ministry o f Energy andMiningto mentor a community consultation
       specialist as part o f implementation o f the guidelines.

Deliverables for this task are:
   Guidelines regardinginternational goodpractice incomparisonto current practices within
   Kosovo on community consultation, recommendations, guidelines for effective community
   consultation on mining, inconsideration o fpublic consultation. Consultant shall also prepare
   a brochure andother materials for distribution andmentor within MEMa community
   consultation specialist.

Task 2: Community Development Plans
Consultant shall:
   0   document intemational good practice regarding community development plans;
   0   review the World Bank and other accepted approaches on community development and
       corresponding social safeguard policies
   0   review with MEMhow the social impact framework and draft community development
        framework are (i)  consistent and complementary, identifyingandreporting on
        deficiencies, (ii)
                         mutually reinforcing inthat the social impact measures are adequate for
        a community development planto be satisfactory, acceptable to the community, and
        sustainable, again reporting on weaknesses that may be identified.
    e   undertake public consultation on community development plans with respect to mining;
    0  provide a workshop for Ministry o f Energy and Mines and other interested parties on
        community development plans, community consultation frameworks (as discussed
        above), complementary and reinforcing elements within social impact frameworks,
        measuring outcomes, opportunities for local economic development, and sustaining
        communities beyond mine-closure.


                                                  39

   0   draft a final community development framework, consistent with (i)World Bank Social
       Safeguard policies, and (ii)other recognized, applicable safeguard policies;
   0   preparea brochure or other literature for public distribution and undertake additional
       public consultation.


Deliverables for this task are:
   0   guidelines regarding international good practice, incomparisonto current practices
       within Kosovo, on creatingsustainable miningcommunities and inconsideration o f
       public consultation. Consultant shall also prepare a brochure andother materials for
       distribution andmentor within MEMa community development specialist.


Task 3:Governance and Implementation o fthe Community Development Guidelines
   0   consultant shall review and document the principal elements o fthe social impact
       frameworks andpolicies o fthe Ministry o f Labor and Social Welfare, to ensure it is
       complementary and mutually reinforcing o f the community development framework.
   0   define and document keybusiness processes associated with implementation o fthe
       community development guidelines, ensuring consistency with ongoing responsibilities
       o f the MEM.
    0  disseminationo fthe guidelines andimplementation strategy to target groups;
    0  creationo f administrative procedures to be used inadministration o fthe guidelines.

Deliverables for this task are:
    0  a document o f the key business processes associated with implementation o f the
       community development guidelines, dissemination o fthe guidelines and an
       implementationstrategy to target groups, administrative procedures for administration o f
       the guidelines.


Subcomponent 3 -Mining Sector SME Capacity Development
US$ 0.2 million

Assistance to small scale miningoperations ("operators") will be coordinated with an ongoing
technical assistanceprogrambeingoffered by ICMM. Sub-components relating to management,
leadership, computer technologies, andhealth & safety are already a part o f the broader program.
The components for addition to the broader program are:
    0  technical assistance to formalize unlicensed sand & gravel andquarry operations,
       focusing on improved product quality, material standards for higher-end markets, and
       improved operational efficiencies;
    0  improvedbusiness processes on regulatory compliance, environmental compliance, the
       use o f economic incentives, identifying sources o f small-business financing, and creation
       o f trade associations.
    0  technical assistance inthe formulation o f an overall transportation plan for bulk mining
       production.




                                                40

Institutional capacity buildingwill take place concurrently between agencies of the government
and operators. The term "operators" principally focuses on quarry and river mining for
aggregate but also includes production of Pb/Zn, bauxite, magnesite, and chromite, and kaolinite.

The main tasks to be carried out by the consultants are:

Task 1:Introduction to modem technologies and operational practices
Consultant shall develop a strategy, harmonized with the overarching MiningSector Plan, to
formalize unlicensed small-scale miningoperations using technology exchange incentives. Key
tasks include:
    0   an Operators Workshop to introduce production technologies that will improve quality o f
        product for regulated end-use markets (those moving towards product quality
        specifications such as highway construction). Consideration should be given to readily
        available, lower-cost technologies that can offer significant improvements inproduct
        quality.
    0   an Operators Workshop to introduce basic economics (profit / loss balance sheets, basic
        feasibility calculations, identifying cost factors inherent inquarrying, compliance with
         environmental regulations andmanagement o f environmental impacts, etc.)
    0   institutional capacity buildingwithin the ICMMand the MEMon the possible creation of
         an extension service for ongoing technical assistance.
    0    strategies to encourage quarry operations anddiscourage alluvial aggregate sources that
         are impartingsignificant environmental damage to active river channels
    0    undertake public consultation.

Deliverables for this task are
    0    an operators workshop on production technologies and recommendedmaterials standards
    0    anoperators workshop to introduce basic economics and environmental compliance
    0    institutional capacity buildingwithin the ICMM and MEM,including guidelines and
         standards to improve environmental performance through quarrying industries
    0    public consultation

Task 2: Improved Business Processes
Consultant shall develop a strategy, harmonized with the overarching MiningSector Plan, to
    0    finalize the merger o fthe road construction trade association and the quarry operators
         into one association for representation o f small-scale miningissues within government
         planning processes,
    0    foster linkages to the construction industry, especially on pending major highway
         construction,
    0    explore barriers to the manufacture o f value-added materials and propose remedies;
    0    encourage the financial sector to offer small business loans to the sector, and
    0    encourage growth inthis sub-sector;
    0    undertake public consultation.

Deliverables for this task are
    0    the merger o f the road construction trade association and quarry operators into one
         association,


                                                   41

0 a report describing mechanisms to foster linkages between the quarry and construction
  industries, documenting bamers to the manufacture of value-added products and
  financing o f enterprises, and strategies for growth in the sector.
0 public consultation




                                             42

                                     Annex 5: Project Costs
                 KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11


                                                         Local         Foreign         Total
   Project Cost By Component and/or Activity               us            us             us
                                                       $million        $million      $million
   Component 1:Energy Sector
        Establishmento f a Transmission and                               0.80          0.80
        System Operator
        Development o f a tariff framework                                0.60          0.60
   Component 2: MiningSector
        Development of a mining sector strategy                           0.50          0.50
        Development o f a framework for                                   0.25          0.25
        community participation and community
        development plan
        SMEcapacitydevelopment                                            0.20          0.20
   Audit Fee                                                              0.02          0.02
   IncrementalOperating Costs                                             0.02          0.02
        Unallocated                                                       0.11          0.11


   Total Baseline Cost                                                    2.50          2.50
     Physical Contingencies
     Price Contingencies
                               Total Project Costs'                       2.50          2.50
                        Interest duringconstruction
                                     Front-end Fee
                        Total Financing Required                          2.50          2.50



'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$ Nil, andthe total project cost, net oftaxes, is US$2.5
million. Therefore, the share o fproject cost net oftaxes i s 100%.




                                                43

                              Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                  KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical AssistanceProject-I11


Management of the Project

The Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) is the project implementation entity and will assign a senior
officer as the Project Manager. There will be a maximum o f six contracts for delivery o f the Energy
Sector Technical Assistance Project I11(ESTAP 111), o f which three will be managed by MEM,one by the
Kosovo Trust Agency (KTA) with the assistance o f KEK, one by the Energy Regulatory Office (ERO)
and one by the Independent Commission of Mines and Minerals (ICMM). More staff will be hired for
procurement, administration and accounting as a part o f the staff o fthe MEM.
The project will be managed by the MEM which will be responsible for selection of the consultants in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines, for coordination of activities, evaluation of results o f the
technical assistance, assistance in disbursements, and preparation o f the follow-up actions. A team
comprising the Project Manager, the representative o f KTA, the representatives o f ICMM and the ERO
will be the counterparts to the consultants. Qualified staff will be selected for the counterpart teams. The
KEKwill be fully involved inthe implementation o f Component 1.KEK will provide counterpart teams
to work with the consultants, provide data, and review the output of the consultants.
Project financial management will b e handled by the financial manager and one assistant located
at the Administrative Department of MEM. They will be responsible for the financial
management and reporting requirements of the project. The MEM has to put inplace a financial
management system that i s capable of producingproject management reports as required by the
World Bank. All payments from the Grant, except for incremental operating costs, will be made
directly by the Bank.     Based on the documents prepared by the MEM, all payments will b e
authorized by the MFE and UNMIK Pillar IV and submitted to the World Bank for payment, as
per procedure to b e agreed with the World Bank. The MEM will prepare and sign all the
relevant documents in support of applications for withdrawal to b e submitted to MFE for its co-
signature. The withdrawal applications will b e submitted to the World Bank through UNMIK.
Counterpart contributions, ifany, will b e made from the Kosovo Consolidated Budget. The MFE
will hire auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, for auditing the project accounts. The cost of audit
will be paidthroughthe Grantproceeds. UNMIK,as the Grant Recipient, will have an oversight
responsibility. MFEi s the responsible authority for managingthe grant funds. UNMIWEUPillar
IV will be the focal point ofcontact for UNMIK.
Procurement Arrangements

The recruitment o f consultants under ESTAP I11 will be carried out under the coordination o f the
Procurement Division (PD) of the MEM, which i s located under the Administrative and Public Relation
Department. The P D team will use finance and administrative support services o f the Administrative
Department o f MEM. The role o f the PD will be to safeguard that the WB procurement rules are fully
obeyed and that all actions in any step o f the procurement are taken in compliance with the rules o f the
WB andby following regulationsofthe MEM.
The relevant staffo fthe PDwill participate at the training course on the WB Procurement Rules.




                                                     44

ESTAP-111shall contain a maximum of five lotsI6, inparticular:



     0    Lot 1: Technical assistance to KTA and KEK for participating in South East Europe Regional
          Market by establishing the Transmission System Operator (TSO) inKosovo

     0    Lot 2:        Development o f Electricity Transmission and Retail Tariffs and Subsidy Delivery
          Mechanism

     0    Lot 3: Capacity development on mineral policy and sector strategy issues, with attention given
          to process that will create local buy-inon long-term strategy

     0    Lot 4: Technical assistance to small-to medium enterprises, principally in the construction
          materials and industrial mineral sub-sector

     0    Lot 5: Development o f a social policy framework to assist inresettlement and rehabilitation, and
          to optimize alternative land-uses


Outline of the procedures: The General Procurement Notice and the Request for Expressions o f Interest
were approved by the Project Steering Committee on 17 February 2005. The procurement procedure is
broadly describedbelow:
1.        Call for Expression o f Interest (EOI):

    0     preparationo f text:
                o technical part: MEM,KTAEnergyDivision, ICMMandERO,
                o administrativehegal part: Administrative Departmento fthe MEM

    0     consultation with the WB before issuance by the MEM,Procurement Division

    0     publishingo fCall for EO1instandardwebsites andprofessional newspapers

    0     return o f EO1to the MEM,Procurement Division


2.        Shortlisting:

    0     Establishment o f evaluation committee for short-listing o f companies, with the participation of
          the MEM, Procurement Division.

    0     Evaluation committees for each sub-component will be chaired by the respective implementation
          agency, e.g., MEM, KTA, ERO, ICMM.

    0     Chairman prepares the evaluation report and submits it to the World Bank, through MEM, in
          order to obtain "No objection" from the Bank


3.        Preparation o f a RFP for individual Lots based on WB model documents under the coordination
of the MEMProcurement Division

                0    Request for proposals will include, among others:
                              -     Letter o f Invitation


l6SeparateEOI,bids,evaluationswillberequired.




                                                           45

                 -   Information to Consultants (incl. Data Sheet and Appendix)

                 -   Technical Proposal (standard form)

                 -   Financial proposal (standard form)
                 -   TOR(s)
                 -   Standard form o f contract
                 -   Submission of the RFPto the World Bank and obtainingBank's no-objection

       0   Tenders will be launchedby the MEMProcurement Division

       0   Tenderers submits proposals to the MEMProcurement Division


4.  Agreed uponprinciples ofthe selection process, including:

       0   Fixed Budget Selection (FBS)

       0   Separate Technical and Financial proposals

       0   Clear evaluation gndinadvance

       0   Bank's review procedures (decisions and documents subject for the World Bank's review
           and no-objection)


5.  Evaluation of tenders:

       0   Establishment of the evaluation committee to be approved by the Steering Committee of
           the ESTAP I11Project. It can comprise the same people as the evaluation committee for

         ' the short-list

       0   Evaluation comittee(s) be chaired by the representative o f the implementing agency for
           each sub-component
                  -   First, technical evaluation(TE)
                  -   Preparation of evaluation report on TE for each Lot and submission of ERs to
                      the WB for "No objection "

       0   Public opening of the Financial Proposals for individual Lots

       0   Preparation o f the final evaluation report on complete evaluation by Chairman and
            submission to the WB


6.  Contracting:

       0    Final Contract negotiations: MEM Procurement Division with the first-ranked
            Consultant(s) for individual Lots,

       0    Completion of the contracts, submission o f the negotiated draft contracts to the WB for
            "No objection  "


       0    Contracts with the consultants will be signed by MEM. For each contract, a
            representative o f the respective implementation agency, e.g., MEM, ICMM, ERO, and
            KTAwill be designatedas the Contract Administrator


                                                46

              Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                  KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11


Country Issues.


An OperationalFinancial Accountability Report was finalized inNovember 2004.Despite
significant progress since 2001,public financial management inKosovo suffers from
fundamental weaknesses, andbasic structures for financial accountability are still intheir
infancy. The overall legal framework for budgeting and budget management i s largely
compatible with internationally recognized standards, but for some aspects it appears to be too
advanced for the current administration's capacity. Carry-over practices andweaknesses in
capacity, organization and coordination hamper budget preparation and undermine the credibility
of the budget as a policy management instrument. While treasury and cash management are well-
regulated areas o fpublic financial management, they suffer from inefficiencies. The system
through which Commitment and Payment Orders flow to ensure authorization o fpayments i s
well regulated. The Treasury authorizes commitments and payments based on proposals and
supporting documentationby budget organizations and municipalities. The Treasury pays from a
single account inthe central Banking and Payment Authority o fKosovo (BPK).

As with most public financial management functions, accounting is constrained by limited
capacity, and financial reporting needs more realistic requirements and statutory deadlines,
improvedprocedures, andtrained personnel. Internal control and internal audit at all levels o f
government are intheir infancy. Considerable time and effort will be required to make them hlly
operational. External audit is undeveloped and, as with internal audit, it will need sustained
external support for its development.

Strengths and Weaknesses.

The significant strengths that provide a basis o freliance on the project financial management
system include: (i) experience o f KTA, MFE and UNMIKo f implementing the previous
                    the
ESTAPs and satisfying Bank financial management requirements; and (ii)       the audit reports and
management letters issuedbythe auditors. There are no significant weaknesses o f the project
financial management system.

Implementing Entity.

The Ministry o fEnergy and Miningwill be the Project Implementing Entityand have the overall
responsibility o f project implementation and coordination with several institutions involved in
implementation of sub-components

A Project Steering Committee (PSC), with representatives o f UNMIK, MEM, ERO, KTA, and
ICMM, has been established ,to coordinate the activities o f various agencies involved in
implementation o f sub-components, and also provide guidance and advice on implementation of


                                                 47

the project, terms o f reference o f the consultants, selection of consultants, and compliance with
Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures. The PSC will reinforce ownership within local
institutions, review consultant's outputs for quality and intemal consistence among the
components, and consult with local institutions, donors, and other stakeholders.

The MEM, in consultation with UNMIK and the agencies responsible for different sub-
components, will manage procurement, negotiate contracts, supervise progress, and process
payments through Ministry o f Finance and Economy (MFE) and UNMIK. The MEM will
prepare withdrawal applications and submit to MFE for their signature. The applications will be
forwarded to the Association through UNMIK.

A Project Steering Committee (PSC), with representatives o fUNMIK,MEM,ERO, KEK,KTA,
and ICMM, has been established to coordinate the activities o f various agencies involved in
implementation o f sub-components, and also provide guidance and advice on implementation o f
the project, terms o f reference o f the consultants, selection o f consultants, and compliance with
Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures. The PSC will reinforce ownership within local
institutions, reviews consultant's outputs for quality and intemal consistence among the
components, and consultation with local institutions, donors, and other stakeholders.

Funds Flow.

All major payments from the grant will be madedirectly bythe Bank and as a result no special
account will be opened. Based on the documents preparedbyMEMall payments will be
authorizedjointly bythe MFEand MEMand submitted to the Bank through UNMIK, as per
procedures to be agreed with the Bank. MEMwill prepare all the relevant documents insupport
o f applications for withdrawal and obtain the required clearances, and coordinate closely with
MFEandUNMIK.For incremental operatingexpenditure, SOEprocedure willbeused and
reimbursement claimed from the proceeds o fthe Grant.

Staffing.

MEMwill assign afinancial manager workinginthe Administrative Departmentofthe Ministry
to be responsible for financial management o f the project. The financial manager will liaise
closely with the Grant UnitinMFE on disbursement, accounting and auditing issues for the
project. Previous experience gained inKTA and KEKwill also be utilized to secure smooth
project implementationmaintaining appropriate reporting and accountability for the grant.

AccountingPolicies and Procedures.

The accountingbooks and records are maintained on a cash basis byMFEbased on the
documentationprovided by the MEM.Quarterly and yearly project financial statements are
presented in. MEMwill manually register all commitments for the five expected contracts for
technical assistance. MEMhas instituted a set o f appropriate accountingprocedures and intemal
 controls including authorization and segregation o f duties. The policies and procedures are
 hrther elaborated inthe PIP.




                                                   48

I nterna1Audit.
No internal audit is established and no such function is deemed necessary in an organization o f
this small size.

External Audit.
As o fthe date o fthis report, the Recipient is incompliancewith its audit covenants o fthe
existing Bank-financed project. Current project financial statements and auditing arrangements
for the two previous ESTAPs are acceptable and it has been agreed that these arrangements will
bereplicated for ESTAPI11taking into account that this project will be implementedbythe
newly established Ministry o fEnergy andMining.The annual audited project financial
statements will be provided to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year.

The auditor will be appointed by the MFE. Specific terms o freference have been agreed during
negotiations. The audits are conducted inaccordance with International Standards on Auditing.

The annual cost o fthe audits will be coveredby the Grant.

Reporting and Monitoring.
MEMwillproduceall financial reportsandSOEs for the Bank. The formats ofthe quarterly
Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) to be used for project monitoring and supervision andthe
formats o fthese are included inthe PIP. MEMwill produce a full set o fFMRs every three
months throughout the life o f the project.

I nformation Systems.
The accountingregistration is done by MFEinthe treasury system. Basedon monthly reports
from this system MEMwill manually produce the quarterly and annual financial reportsrequired

Disbursement Arrangements.
The disbursement from the grant will consist o f direct payments and against Statement o f
Expenditure for the recurrent cost, and as a result no SA will be opened. There is no plan to
move to periodic disbursements.

Supervision Plan.
Duringproject implementation, the Bankwill supervise the project's financial management
arrangements intwo main ways: (i)     review the project's quarterly financial management reports
 as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and
 (ii) theBank'ssupervisionmissions,reviewtheproject'sfinancialmanagementand
    during
disbursement arrangements to confirm that satisfactory financial management arrangements have
been maintained. As required, a Bank-accredited FinancialManagement Specialist will assist in
the supervision process.




                                                  49

                             Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                  KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-XI1

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be canied out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described ingeneral below. For each contract to be financedby the
Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Recipient andthe Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated at least
annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds andimprovements in
institutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: N/A

Procurement of Goods: N/A

Procurement of non-consulting services: N/A

Selection of Consultants :There will be a maximumo f six packages for consulting services,
including Project Audit. The method o f selection will be Fixed-Budget Selection for the TA
contracts andLeast-Cost Selection for the Audit.

Operating Costs: Procurement under operating costs category will be conducted on the basis o f
the itemized budget approved annually by the Bank. The Recipient will use, to the extent
practical, competitive methods for selection o f staff, consultants and vendors.

Others: N/A

The procurement procedures are presented inthe Project Implementation Plan.

B. Assessmentof the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be camed out by the Ministry o f Energy andMining(MEM).The
procurement hnctionis ledby a personwith a previous experience inprocurement underBank-
financed projects. The procurement team will receive finance and administrative support services
from the Administration Department o f MEM.An assessment (desk review) o fthe capacity o f
the ImplementingEntityto implement procurement actions for the project has been carried out
byLeonidVanian on January 28,2005. The capacityis considered adequate for the limited
scope o fprocurement under the project. The overall project risk for procurement is average.

C. Procurement Plan




                                                 50

The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the MEM
and the Project Team on February 24,2005, and endorsed by UNMIK, and is available at
MEM's office located at Queen Teuta Street, Pristina. It will also be available inthe project's
database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement
with the Project Team annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds
and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D. Frequency ofProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervisionto becamed out from Bankoffices, the capacity
assessment o f the Implementing Entityhas recommendedone-year frequency o f supervision
missions to visit the field to carry out post review ofprocurement actions.

E. Details ofthe Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition

1. Goods, Works, and Non ConsultingServices

NIA

2. Consulting Services
 r
(a) List o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

                        2                                          5           6          7

     Ref. No.     Description of                               Review       Expected   Comments
                   Assignment        cost,        Method       by Bank      Proposals
                                   `000 US$                    (Prior I    Submission
                                                                 Post)        Date
                 Transmission                                 Prior       May 1,2005
                 and System
                 Operator             8oo      i FBs
                 Developmentof                                Prior       May 1,2005
                 tariff
                 framework                     II
                 Developmentof        500      I FBS          Prior       May 1,2005
                 mining sector
                 plan
                 Developmentof        250        FBS          Prior       May 1,2005
                 a framework for
                 community
                 participation
                 and
                 development
                 plan
                 SME capacity                                 Prior        May 1,2005
                 development          2oo        FBS
                 Audit                20       IILCS          Prior        0113112005
                 TOTAL                2370




                                                   51

(b) Short lists composedentirely o fnational consultants: N/A




                                               52

                  Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
              KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11

Not Applicable




                                     53

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                 KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11

Although the project will not finance any investments, it will provide technical assistancein
community development and social impact mitigation matters, and integration o f environmental
issues insector strategy. Dissemination o f information and consultation with multiple
stakeholders, inparticular with the civic society, is included inthe scope ofwork o f consultants
(Annex 4). Consultant contracts will require the assistance rendered to be consistent with Bank
Safeguard Policies. Compliance will be supervised closely.

The Bank's supervision o fboth social and environmental aspectswill ensure that the advice
provided by the consultants to Kosovo authorities is consistent with the Bank's safeguards
policies and with the Bank's position on the Extractive IndustriesReview.




                                                 54

                      Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                 KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11


                                                   Planned                 Actual
PCNreview                                      September 2004          September 2004
Initial PID to PIC                             September 2004          September 2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                            September 2004          September 2004
Appraisal                                       January 2005           February 2005
Negotiations                                    January 2005           February 2005
Board/RVPapproval                                March 2005
Planneddate ofeffectiveness                       M a y 2005
Planned date o fmid-term review
Plannedclosingdate

Key institutionsresponsible for preparation o fthe project: UNMIK,PISG(MEM),ERO, KTA,
KEK,ICMM

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                           Title                      Unit
MohinderGulati                       Project Team Leader                 ECSIE
                                     Sr. Financial Analyst
Sanjay Sinha                           Operations Officer
Husam MohamedBeides                    Sr. Power Engineer                ECSIE
Olav Rex Christensen               Sr. Financial Management              ECSPS
                                            Specialist
Leonid Vanian                       Procurement Specialist               ECSPS
Stan Peabody                         Lead Social Scientist              ECSSD
Michael Stanley                       Sr. Mining Engineer               COCPO
Bernard Baratz                             Consultant                   EASEG
Hjalte Sederlof                            Consultant                   ECSHD
Yolanda Gedse                          ProgramAssistant                  ECSIE
MarkWalker                                Lead Counsel                  LEGEC
Joseph Formoso                         Sr. Finance Officer              LOAGl


Bankfunds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bankresources: US$93,000
    2. Trust funds:          Ni1
    3. Total:          US$93,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval: approx.US$ 50,000
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost:     US$ 100,000



                                                55

                      Annex 32: Documents in the Project File
              KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11


1.  Letter from Deputy SRSG, dated September 14, 2004, confirming project components,
    and implementation entity;
2.  Project ImplementationPlan
3.  Terms of Reference of consultants for incorporation o f KEK and TSO, fundedby EAR




                                            56

                                       Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                            KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11

                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expected and actual
                                                              Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements

Project ID   FY     Purpose                                IBRD        IDA       SF        GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO79259      2004   COMM DEVT FUND2                           0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     3.94       0.09        0.00
PO79260      2003   EDUCATION                                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     3.68        1.10       0.01
PO79019      2003   ENERGY SECT TA 2                          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      1.46      -0.15       0.00
PO72405      2002   SOC PROT(KOSOVO TF)                       0.00      0.00      4.20      0.00     0.00      1.39       1.39       0.69
PO70365      2001   PILOT WS (KOSOVO TF)                      0.00      0.00      4.60      0.00     0.00     0.62       -3.98       0.00

                                                    Total:    0.00      0.00      8.80      0.00     0.00     11.09    - 1.55        0.70




                                                              KOSOVO
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                                      InMillionso fUS Dollars


                                                              Committed                                   Disbursed

                                                             IFC                                         IFC
         FY Approval   Company                    Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.    Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.




                                 Totaluortfolio:   0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                            Approvals PendingCommitment

                        FY Approval   Company                           Loan        Equity       Quasi       Partic.




                                           Total pendingcommitment:     0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                    57

                                                 Annex 14: Kosovo at a Glance
                             KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I11


                                                             Europe&    Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                    Kosovo   Central  middle-
                                                    estimates   Asia   income
2003
Population,mid-year (millionsJ                            1.9     473    2,655
GNIpercapita                                                    2,570    1,480
GNI (millions)                                                  1,217    3,934

Average annualgrowth, 199743
Population(%)                                                     0.0      0.9
Laborforce 1%)                                                    0.2      1.2

Most recentestimate(latest year available, 199743)
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)            37
Urbanpopulation(% oftotalpopulation)                       37      63       50
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                              74      69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000livebirths)                     35      31       32
Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder5J                                    11
Accessto an improvedwater sourceI%ofpopulation)            61      91       81
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 15+1                         6        3       10
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)        95     103      112
    Male                                                   96     104      113
    Female                                                 97     102      111

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                1983    1993     2002     2003

GDP (US$ billions)                                                 1.6     2.0
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                    34.5     29.3
Exportsof goodsand servicedGDP                                    12.5     10.4
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                                         -51.5    47.5
Gross nationalsavings/GDP

Currentaccount balance/GDP                                       62.0     -56.2
Interest payments/GDP
Total debtlGDP
Totaldebt servicelexports
Presentvalue of debtlGDP
Presentvalue of debtlexports

                                      1983-93 199343    2002     2003  200347
(average annualgruluth)
GDP                                                       1.2      3.1
GDP per capita                                            2.0      4.0
Exportsof goodsand services


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                 1988    1996    2002     2003
(% of GDPJ
Agriculture                                      20.4    28.8
Industry                                         47.4    33.8
    Manufacturing
Services                                         32.2    37.4

Privateconsumption                                                96.9     96.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                      14.6     17.9
Importsof goodsand services                                       98.6     97.1


                                              1983-93 199303     2002     2003
(average annualg r o W
Agriculture
 Industry
    Manufacturing
Services
Privateconsumption
Generalgovernmentconsumption
Grossdomesticinvestment
 Importsof goods andservices

 NoteDataareestimatesfor Kosovo




                                                                    58

                                                                                Kosovo, Serbia and Montenegro
                                                         ~~          ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                1983       1993    2002     2003
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                                     21.2     11.1
Implicit GDP deflator                                              25.5       6.4

Government finance                                                                 I
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                                    43.9     45.1               98     99     w         01     02    03
Current budget balance                                               0.6     -0.7               ---GDPdeflator          "0-CPI        I
Overallsurplus/deficit                                              -3.4     -4.2


TRADE
                                                1983       1993    2002     2003
(US$ mi//ions)                                                                        Exportand import levels (US$mill.)              1
Total exports(fob)                                                 2,412   3,011
  Food                                                                                O.Oo07                                          I
  Other fuel                                                                          7 500
  Manufactures
Total Imports (ci0                                                 6,320   7,809      5 MI0

  Food                                                                                2 500
  Fueland energy                                                                                                                      I
  Capitalgoods                                                                            0
                                                                                              97         99     w
Export price index (1995=700)                                                                      98                   01  02

Import price index (1995=100)                                                                      Exports         .Imports       O3
Terms oftrade (7995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                1983       1993    2002     2003
(US$millions)                                                                         Currentaccount balanceto GDP (YO)

Exportsof goods and services                                       3,241    4,188
Importsof goods and services                                       6,857    8,526
Resourcebalance                                                   -3,616   -4,338

Net income                                                          -111     -229
Net currenttransfers                                               2,343    2,818

Current account balance                                           -1.384   -1.750

Financingitems (net)                                               2,200    2,517
Changes in net reserves                                             -816     -767

Memo:
 Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                             2.038    3,325
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocal/US$)                                      64.2    57.5

 EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                                1983       1993    2002     2003
 (US$ millions)                                                                      1Composition of 2003 debt (US$mill.)
 Total debt outstandingand disbursed           20,477     12,709  11,922   13,263
   IBRD                                         1,814      1,126   2,251    2,605
   IDA                                              0         0       167     284              G 2,568

 Total debt service                             3,648         56      151     724
   IBRD                                           288         14      75      104
   IDA                                              0          0        1       1

 Compositionof net resource flows
   Officialgrants                                   0      1,918   2,328                 F 2.174
  Officialcreditors                               152        -12     321      788
   Privatecreditors                               710         0       32     -320
   Foreigndirect investment                        18         96     475
   Portfolioequity                                  0          0        0                             E 3.126
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                    876          0      203     201     A IBRD                               E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                  292          0      159      95        --
                                                                                      C- IMF
                                                                                      B IDA        D- Other multilateral   F Pnvate
   Principalrepayments                            161         12        0       0                                          G Short-tern
                                                                                                                            ---
   Netflows                                       131        -12      159      95
   Interest payments                              126          2      76      106
   Nettransfers                                     4        -14      84      -10


 Note: This tablewas produced from the DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.                                                     9/15/04




                                                                  59

   Annex 15: MAP - IBRD 30432R
KOSOVO,SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO




               60

                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 30432R

                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the
       2000'                                            2030'               To Kraljevo                 2100'                                               2130'      Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                           and any other information shown on
             KOSOVO                                                                                                                                                        this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                                                           The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                      ^    on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                           any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                To Nis     such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                        Toplica
                                                                               Ibar

                                                                                               Leposavic                                                                                       ^
                                                                                              (Leposaviq)                                                                                 To Nis




 4300'                                                                                                                                                                                                        4300'
                                                                    Gazivodsko
                                                                        Jezero          ^                                                                                                  To Leskovac

                                                                                   Zvecan
MONTENEGRO                                                     Zubin Potok                                            Podujevo
                                                                                                     Mitrovica

                                                                                                                ^                        Batlavsko                              Jablanca
                                                                                                                                           Jezero
                                                                                                              Vucitrn                                S        E       R         B        I      A
To Ivangrad                                                                                                   (Vushtrn)
                                                     Istok
                                                    (Istog)
                                                                                Srbica                                    Lab
                                                  Beli     Djurakovac
                                                       Drim                        Klina                                               ^
                                                                                                            Obilic
                                                                                                            (Obiliq)              PRISTINA
       To                                                                                                                        (PRISHTINE)
    Ivangrad                    Pec                                                                                                          Gracanicko
                                                                                                                                                       
                               (Peje)                                                                Glogovac             Kosovo                 Jezero

                               ^                                     Klina (Kline)                   (Gilogoc)            Polje                         Novo Brdo             Kosovska
                                                                                                                                                                              Kamenica
                            Decani                                                                                                                    (Novo Berde)
                                                                                Former                                                                                                                  To Leskovac
                           (Decan)                         ^
                                                   Radonjicko                 Malisevo                             Sitnica
                                                                                 Mun.                                        Lipljan (Lipjan)
 4230'                                              Jezero                  ^                                                                                                                                 4230'
                                                                         Malisevo
                                              Erenik                                                                                                              Gnjilane
                                                               Orahovac                                                                                           (Gjilani)
                                                               (Rahovec)                                    Stimlje
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                           (Shtime)
                                                                                                                          ^                                       Morava
                                       Djakovica                                                                   Urosevac                               Binacka
                                        (Gjakove)                                              Suva Reka
                                                                                               (Suhareke)           (Ferizaj)
                                                                                                                                                       Vitina
                                                                                                                                                 ^      (Viti)
                                                                                                         ^                Gabrica
                                                                                                                                            Kacanik
                                                                                                         Strpce                           (Kacaniku)

                                                                 BeliDrim              Prizren         (Shterpce)
A L B A N I A
                                        Liqeni i
                                        Fierzs                                                                                        Lepenac
                To Durrs                                                                                                                                                     F Y R
                                                                                                                                                                M A C E D O N I A
              MAIN ROADS                                                    Gora
                                                                         (Dragashi)                                                                             SKOPJE             To Sofia
              RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                 2130'                                        4200'

              SELECTED CITIES

              MUNICIPAL HEADQUARTERS*                                                                                                   AUSTRIA                    20                                        30

                                                        To Durrs                                                                                           H U N G A R Y

              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                        MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                         SLOVENIA                                 R O M A N I A
                                                                                                                                                    CROATIA
              MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                            To Bitola
              BOUNDARY OF FORMER MALISEVO MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                 BOSNIA AND
                                                                                                                                           Adriatic    HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                      SERBIA
                                                                                                                                                                       AND                                       Black
              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                  MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                 ITALY                                                 B U L G A R I A           Sea
                                                                                                                                                                              KOSOVO
              REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                                     To Bitola                                                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                            FYR
                                                                                                                                                                        MACEDONIA
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                       ALBANIA
                                                                        0          10            20         30 Kilometers
*When two municipality names are shown, Serbian spellings                                                                         40                                                                                40

are shown first, followed by Albanian spellings in parentheses.                                                                    Tyrrhenian                                          Aegean                 TURKEY
When only one name is shown, the spelling is the same in                                                                                                                 GREECE
                                                                        0                   10                 20 Miles               Sea                                                 Sea
both languages.
     2000'                                             2030'                                            2100'                                                    20


                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARCH 2003

