Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1082 
Project Name 
Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-III 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Power (50%);Mining and other extractive (40%);General energy 
sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P088865 
Borrower(s) 
UNMIK 
Implementing Agency 
EONR, KEK, KTA, UNMIK 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 3, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 25, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 29, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Key development issues
.
Kosovo’s main energy resource is its extensive lignite deposits, the 
reserves of which are estimated at over 10 billion tons. It has no other fossil fuel resource and 
has only a very modest hydroelectric potential. It has no natural gas import and no gas supply 
infrastructure. It has no oil refinery and depends entirely on imported liquid fuels. Its electricity 
network covers almost 100% of the households. Its district heating networks are confined only to 
about 11,000 consumers in the three cities, Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovic and caters only to 5% 
of the heat demand. Due to poor operational and financial performance of the power utility 
(KEK), the electricity sector has not only become an obstacle to growth but also a fiscal burden. 
Shared and often politically conflicting governance arrangements between the United Nations 
Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and Provisional Institutions of Self 
Government (PISG) have led to poor sector governance, slowed the pace of policy development, 
and impeded sector restructuring, improvements in utility performance, and recovery of the 
mining sector. 
 
Electricity Sector.
 
Major challenges facing the electricity sector are: (i) poor performance of 
the power utility KEK, in part due to its weak management capacity; poor maintenance of 
generation plants and the network due to lack of resources; inefficient operation of generation 
plants, high level of system losses, and poor bill collection; (ii) need to integrate with the 
regional energy market (called Energy Community of South East Europe - ECSEE) in order to 
optimize its own generation capacity, reduce severe shortages affecting Kosovo, and in the 
medium term exploit its lignite resources for attracting investments in export-oriented power 
plant; (iii) rationalize excessive use of electricity for space heating during winter to reduce 
demand for electricity, and revise tariff structure to improve targeting of subsidy for the poor; 
and (iv) finance its near term investments to rehabilitate generation plants, rehabilitate and 
augment the network. 
Page  2
Mining Sector.
 
Absence of a coherent approach to recovering Kosovo’s mining sector has 
resulted in an array of issues  affecting ongoing lignite mining operations, efforts to recover 
Trepca’s mining activities (lead and zinc), privatization of Ferronikeli (mines and ferro-nickel 
plant), efforts to regulate  unlicensed construction material production, and rehabilitation of other 
mining assets currently idle.  Meaningful recovery of the sector depends upon policies and 
strategies that promote private-sector led growth.   
 
Major issues facing the mining sector are: (i) 
Institutional weaknesses
.
Absent PISG capacity 
development and institutional strengthening, institutional deficiencies will affect investor interest 
adversely; (ii)  
Legal and regulatory framework.  
The DMM has prepared new mining 
legislation, but it needs to include principles of sustainable development, such as, social policies 
and community development frameworks, and environmental performance; (iii) 
Rehabilitation of 
lignite mines is critical for power sector
.
Chronic neglect of maintenance of mining equipment, 
irrational mining practices regarding  overburden removal, and delays in resettlement of 
communities and rehabilitation of lands affected by lignite mining are some of the major 
challenges facing the authorities. 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement.  
Even with limited amounts of IDA grants, the Bank has been 
able to provide the much needed catalytic technical assistance for developing a more strategic 
approach to addressing the sector issues.  The IDA Grant will support Kosovo in implementing 
their immediate obligations under Athens Memorandum for creation of a regional electricity 
market in South East Europe, develop institutional capacity, and restructure the power sector for 
creation of an independent transmission and system operator.  
 
In the mining sector, not many donors other than European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) 
are active in supporting development of mineral policies, institutional strengthening, and 
development of social policy framework for communities affected by mining.  The project will 
also focus on development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in quarrying and mining.   
 
KEK’s poor performance is being addressed through engagement of an international private 
utility (ESBI) on an incentive based and performance linked Management Contract. Their 
primary mandate is to improve operational and financial performance of KEK.  The technical 
assistance activities selected for funding through the proposed IDA Grant are considered high 
priority by the authorities and the donors, and will help Kosovo implement its energy sector 
strategy embodied in the “White Paper” and its obligations under the Athens Memorandum.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project’s main objective is to support Kosovo’s integration with the regional energy market 
through assistance for implementation of its immediate obligations under the Athens 
Memorandum, namely creation of an independent Transmission System Operator, development 
of a Grid Code, institutional strengthening to participate in the market, and developing a policy 
framework and institutional capacity for utilization of its mining resources.  
 
Expected key outcomes are improved technical capacity in Kosovo’s institutions to participate in 
the regional market, a transmission and system operator operating under harmonized technical 
Page  3
rules of operation for an interconnected system, availability of a progressive policy framework 
for economic exploitation of mining resources, and improved capacity of the SMEs to operate 
small quarrying and mining businesses.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Main Components
.
The project will focus on two key sectors, energy and mining.  
Component 1: Energy sector 
The energy sector component will comprise of three sub-
components: (i) technical assistance for restructuring KEK to create a Transmission and System 
Operator, develop Gridcode and other technical documents for operation of Kosovo power 
system in an interconnected regional system, develop transmission tariff, (ii) an assessment of 
heat demand for space heating, hot water, and cooking in Kosovo, evaluation of alternative 
energy sources, and policy options for implementation of the preferred alternatives, in order to 
rationalize electricity consumption during winter and (iii) a review of retail tariffs of KEK to 
develop a life-line tariff that is consistent with EU Directives and improves targeting of subsidy 
for the poor. 
 
Component 2: Mining sector
The mining sector component will comprise of three sub-
components: (i) creating a mining sector plan and building capacity within PISG to implement 
the plan for both large and small mines,  (ii) technical assistance to small scale mining operations 
(SMEs) to improve economic, operational, and environmental performance, and (iii) 
development of a social policy framework to assist in resettlement and rehabilitation, dispute 
resolution processes for mining-land use conflicts, and integrating mining and community 
development issues.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The proposed technical assistance is not expected to result in any safeguards issues. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT 
2.5 
 Total 
2.5 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Mohinder P. Gulati 
Title: Sr Financial Analyst 
Tel: (202) 473-3211 
Fax: (202) 614-1585 
Email: Mgulati@worldbank.org
 
