                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000954




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (Grant No.: H1530)




                                    ON A

                                  GRANT




                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.7 MILLION
                      (USD 2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

    UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO
                       FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO

                                  FOR AN

           ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT-III



                              February 27, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2008)

                             Currency Unit = Euro
                             Euro 0.64----- = US$1
                           US$1.63---------= SDR 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 - December 31




                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EAR     European Agency for Reconstruction
EC      European Commission
ECSEE   Energy Community of South East Europe
ERO     Energy Regulatory Office
ESTAP   Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
FMR     Financial Management Report
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICMM    Independent Commission for Mines and Minerals
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IFC     International Finance Corporation
KEK     Korporata Energjetike e Kosoves
KEM     Kosovo Economic Memorandum
KOSTT   Kosovo Transmission System Market Operator
KTA     Kosovo Trust Agency
MEM     Ministry of Energy and Mining
PISG    Provisional Institutions of Self Government
POE     Publicly Owned Enterprises
SESA    Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
SME     Small to Medium Enterprises
SOE     Socially Owned Enterprises
TSO     Transmission and System Operator
TSS     Transitional Support Strategy
UNMIK   United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo


                        Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director:          Jane Armitage
                        Sector Director:           Peter Thomson
                        Project Team Leader:       Michael C. Stanley
                        ICR Team Leader:           Michael C. Stanley

                                             KOSOVO
          ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT-III




                                         CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


    1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...........................................1
    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...........................................7
    3. Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................11
    4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.....................................................14
    5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................14
    6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................17
    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.......18

    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................19
    Annex 2. Outputs by Component..............................................................................20
    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................29
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.........30
    Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result.........................................................................32
    Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...............................................33
    Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................34
    Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................38
    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................39

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Energy Sector
Country:                Kosovo                Project Name:         Technical Assistance 3
                                                                    Project
Project ID:             P088865               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H1530
ICR Date:               02/27/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:             UNMIK
Original Total
                        XDR 1.7M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 1.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK)
Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM)
Kosovo Transmission System Market Operator (KOSTT)
Energy Regulatory Office (ERO)
Independent Commission for Mines and Minerals (ICMM)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/17/2004    Effectiveness:                          06/02/2005
Appraisal:             02/15/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/29/2005    Mid-term Review:     12/01/2006         09/25/2007
                                     Closing:             06/30/2008         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  42                  8
Mining and other extractive                                         8                 42
Power                                                              50                 50


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Corporate governance                                             Secondary         Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Secondary         Primary
Participation and civic engagement                               Secondary         Secondary
Regional integration                                              Primary           Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                              Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Peter D. Thomson                    Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Michael C. Stanley                  Mohinder P. Gulati
ICR Team Leader:           Michael C. Stanley
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project?s primary objectives are (i) to support Kosovo's integration with the regional
energy market through assistance with implementation of its immediate obligations under
the Athens Memorandum namely the establishment of an independent Transmission and



                                                 ii

System Operator (TSO), development of a Grid Code, development of transmission and
retail tariffs including subsidy mechanism, and institutional strengthening to participate
in the market, and (ii) to develop a policy framework, guidelines, and institutional
capacity for the utilization of Kosovo's mineral resources. A community participation
and development plan will support the overarching sector plan by considering those most
affected by resource development, using sustainability as a guiding principle. Technical
assistance to SMEs to develop regulation and define standards is expected to lead to
improved industry performance and create growth opportunities for the SME sector.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Non-discriminatory transmission tariffs for third party access, and new retail
                 tariff system, including subsidy delivery mechanism adopted.
                                                                               New unbundled
                                                                               tariff system, with
                                                                               lifeline tariff
                                                                               approved in April

Value                                       New unbundled                      and May 2007.

quantitative or None exist at present       tariff system                      Revised tariffs

Qualitative)                                approved by the                    under new system
                                            ERO is effective                   approved on June
                                                                               27, 2008. Tariffs
                                                                               are designed to
                                                                               gradually recover
                                                                               costs.
Date achieved 02/21/2005                    06/30/2008                         04/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %         100% achieved. The new tariff system was approved in 2007 and tariffs were

achievement)     revised in 2008 using the new system which is being implemented successfully.

Indicator 2 :    The mining sector strategy approved by PISG and UNMIK, published, publicly
                 available and used as the basis for managing Kosovo's mining resources.
                                            Strategic long-                    Strategic long-term
                                            term mining                        mining strategy
Value                                       strategy embedded                  embedded into the
quantitative or None exists at present      into the Kosovo                    draft Mining Law.
Qualitative)                                development                        Final Strategy has
                                            strategy and draft                 been approved by
                                            mining law                         MEM.
Date achieved 02/21/2005                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments         95%, pending passage of the Mining Law, for which the Mining Sector Strategy



                                                 iii

(incl. %        is the roadmap.With resolution of Kosovo's status the Mining Law is now under
achievement)    Parliamentary review. MEM agreed to disseminate Strategy for interim adoption
                as working guidelines
Indicator 3 :   Establish independent Transmission System Operator (TSO)
                                                                            KOSTT
                                                                            (independent TSO)

Value                                                                       established on

quantitative or None                      Independent TSO                   12/25/2005, and

Qualitative)                              established.                      became operational
                                                                            as an independent
                                                                            company on
                                                                            7/1/2006.
Date achieved 02/21/2005                  06/30/2008                        07/03/2006
Comments        100% achieved. ESTAP III support to KOSTT enabled the company to prepare
(incl. %        most of the technical codes and thus comply with legal requirements for its
achievement)    establishment.
                Development of guidelines for community consultations and guidelines for
Indicator 4 :   community development plans consistent with Bank Safeguard Policies and
                international good practice

                                          Guidelines                        Guidelines
Value                                                                       developed and used
quantitative or None                      developed and                     in SESA
Qualitative)                              used in
                                          consultations.                    Consultations under
                                                                            LPTAP.
Date achieved 02/21/2005                  06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments        100% complete, with the guidelines having been combined into the Mineral
(incl. %        Sector Strategy and now passed forward to LPTAP for use as "Community
achievement)    Development Forums" within the Sibovc Development Plan.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Development of a Grid Code

Value           No Grid Code available atGrid  Code and                     Grid Code,

(quantitative                                                               Metering Code and
                present                   Metering Code
or Qualitative)                           adopted.                          other technical
                                                                            codes adopted.
Date achieved 02/21/2005                  06/30/2008                        01/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved. Grid Code, Metering Code and several other Technical Codes

achievement)    were prepared and approved by the regulator (ERO)




                                               iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
  1   05/23/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  2   06/06/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  3   10/27/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  4   06/26/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.50
  5   12/21/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.20
  6   06/23/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.36



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

General Background:
ESTAP-III follows on successful implementation of ESTAP I and II projects within
Kosovo's energy sector. At appraisal, the Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM), the
Energy Regulatory Office (ERO) and the Independent Commission for Mines and
Minerals (ICMM) were all relatively new institutions and were undergoing early
professional development of staff and programs.

The following key points are noted:

    ·   At the time of project appraisal in 2005, Kosovo was administered by the United
        Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) under the terms of
        UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999). UNMIK was the grant recipient.
    ·   In 2001, a Constitutional Framework was agreed establishing the Provisional
        Institutions of Self-Government (PISG). Although UNMIK retained certain
        reserve powers and final legal authority including on energy and mining sectors,
        there was a continued transition to self-government, with the PISG assuming
        significant responsibility on matters relating inter alia to economic policy, trade
        and investment. In the PISG a new Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) was
        established in December 2004 with the responsibility for defining policies and
        future development strategies of the energy and mining sectors.
    ·   The Kosovo Transmission System Market Operator (KOSTT) was established on
        December 25, 2005, and the Energy Regulatory Office (ERO) was established on
        June 30, 2004.
    ·   Kosovo Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project ­III (ESTAP-III) was the
        first project of the Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM), a ministry having no
        prior experience in energy sector governance
    ·   The unresolved status of Kosovo through much of ESTAP-III kept in place a
        Mining Regulation (2005/2) as a reserved power of UNMIK under UN Security
        Council Resolution 1244.

On February 17, 2008, four and a half months prior to ESTAP-III project close, the
Government of the Republic of Kosovo declared independence. By this time MEM was
the beneficiary of the Lignite Power Technical Assistance Project (LPTAP), and new
capacity challenges were emerging for MEM, ERO, KOSTT and ICMM as a result of
this large and complex transaction essential to the energy sector. Against this backdrop
ESTAP-III served as a buttress, providing reinforcing policies, strategies, codes and
operational guidelines at a critical time of sector development.

Country and Sector Background:           In the nineties, the Kosovo economy had been
damaged by poor economic policies, broken external trade and financial links,
international sanctions, and a lack of investment in key sectors. It suffered further during
the ethnic conflict which ended in 1999. The post-conflict reconstruction program had
proceeded well, and official aid flows had resulted in recovery of economic activity and
positive growth. Despite post-conflict economic recovery, poverty in Kosovo was

                                             1

widespread. Out of a population of about two million, almost 36% were living below the
poverty line, half of its population was below 24 years of age, and about 47% of the
population was unemployed - significantly higher than in any Balkan country.

After the conflict, Kosovo was placed under the administration of the United Nations
Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) under the terms of UN Security
Council Resolution 1244 (1999). In 2001, a Constitutional Framework was agreed
establishing the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government (PISG). Although the
UNMIK retained certain reserve powers and final legal authority, including on energy
and mining sectors, there was a continued transition to self-government with the PISG
assuming significant responsibility on matters relating inter-alia to economic policy,
trade, and investment. In the PISG, a new Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) was
established in December 2004 with the responsibility for defining policies and future
development strategies of the energy and mining sectors. In June 2002, the Kosovo Trust
Agency (KTA) was established by UNMIK and entrusted with the responsibility of inter-
alia business oversight on the energy and mining sector enterprises, restructuring the
Publicly Owned Enterprises (POEs), and privatizing the assets of Socially Owned
Enterprises (SOEs). This shared governance arrangement resulted in a challenging
environment for the energy and mining sectors.

Sector Issues. Historically, energy and mining were the mainstays of the Kosovo
economy, providing direct and indirect employment, sources of revenue, export earnings,
and inputs to downstream industries. However, from being a contributor to economic
growth, the power sector had become a drain on public resources. In addition, unreliable
electricity supply had emerged as one of the main obstacles to growth (Investment
Climate Assessment, 2003). Many of the mining assets were rundown, uneconomic after
years of neglect of maintenance and upgrading of equipment, and required substantial
investments.

Energy Sector Issues. Kosovo's energy resource has been its extensive lignite deposits.
It had no other fossil fuel resources and had only a very modest hydroelectric potential.
There was no natural gas import and no gas supply infrastructure. It had no oil refinery
and depended entirely on imported liquid fuels. Its electricity network covered almost
100% of the households, but the district heating networks were confined to only about
11,000 consumers in three cities, meeting only 5% of the heat demand. Hence, there was
an excessive heat demand load on the power system. Billing and collections remained a
major problem. In 2004 KEK's technical losses were 21%. Of the total energy available,
only 62% was billed, of which only 63% was collected. Due to poor operational and
financial performance of the power utility (KEK), the electricity sector had not only
become an obstacle to growth but also a fiscal burden. Shared and often politically
conflicting governance arrangements between the UNMIK and PISG had led to poor
sector governance, and slowed the pace of policy development. In addition, it had
impeded sector restructuring, improvements in utility performance, and recovery of the
mining sector.

Kosovo could only meet its domestic demand by exporting surplus electricity generation
during off-peak hours, and importing from the neighboring power systems during peak
hours. Its net generation capacity of about 1,055 MW was able to generate about 700
MW (against peak demand of 850 MW) on account of old age of the units, decades of


                                          2

inadequate maintenance, physical damage caused during the conflict, and in 2002
damage to a large thermal plant (Kosovo B) by lightning and a landslide in lignite mines.
This had led to serious power shortages, and even with supply curtailment for about 20%
of the time, Kosovo needed to import electricity worth about 20 million during winter
months. Use of electricity for space heating in Kosovo was excessive in part due to
relatively low tariffs, lack of alternative sources of heating, and because consumers were
able to get electricity at little or no cost by by-passing their meters, making illegal
connections and not paying their electricity bills.

Mining Sector Issues. The mining industry was a major component of Kosovo's
industrial complex. Prevailing mining operations were approaching physical collapse
after more than a decade of poor practices and chronic under-funding.

In the mining sector, strategic actions were needed on existing operations and to stimulate
new investments. The level of investment that was needed was significant and needed to
come from private investors willing to take the risks inherent in mineral commodity
markets. That meaningful private investment had not been attracted was indicative of: (i)
investors not receiving positive signals from a coherent, prioritized strategy that was
supported by the technical capacity within key government agencies, and (ii) the
uncertainty surrounding the final status of Kosovo.

Lack of a coherent strategy and key mineral policies was in part due to a shared
governance arrangement for mineral resources across UNMIK and the PISG; with
mineral licensing and broader sector administration specifically stated as a reserved
power for UNMIK under UN Security Council Resolution 1244. In the absence of strong
ownership of the Ministry of Energy and Mining in a long-term sector plan, key policy
gaps and impasse over strategic actions persisted. The donor contributions into the sector
had also lacked prioritization and a strategic approach. Both KEK mining and Trepca
reported a proliferation of the types of equipment used leading to procurement
inefficiencies, while maintenance and performance problems of key equipment remained
unaddressed.

Rationale for Bank assistance: Even with limited amounts of IDA Grants, the Bank had
been able to provide the much needed catalytic technical assistance for developing a
more strategic approach to addressing energy sector issues. Through two previous
technical assistance projects (ESTAP-I and II) the Bank had helped Kosovo authorities
develop an energy sector strategy, carry out a feasibility study for a regional transmission
link and create capacity for regional trade, and develop a framework for attracting private
sector investment in the energy sector. Because of the Bank's deep involvement in the
evolution of the regional energy market, Kosovo authorities had requested the Bank to
provide technical assistance support in implementing their immediate obligations under
the Athens Memorandum, develop institutional capacity, and restructure the power sector
for the creation of an independent transmission and system operator.

In the mining sector, past donor activity had been largely restricted to equipment
procurement and environmental pollution abatement. The European Agency for
Reconstruction (EAR) was the only active donor with support to lignite mining, mostly
for refurbishment of some production equipment, mine infrastructure, and to combat
uncontrolled fire in the pits. Larger operations for which Kosovo would need donor


                                             3

assistance included future lignite development, privatization of the assets of Ferronikeli,
and recovery of the Trepca and Strezovc/Golesh magnesia operations. The Bank had the
mining sector expertise and in-depth knowledge of Kosovo itself, which were needed to
put together a comprehensive approach to addressing mining sector issues. This would
provide a basis for addressing the obstacles that hinder mining sector recovery and
growth, and for subsequent re-engagement of other donors to support sector recovery. It
would also address the needs of both large scale and small to medium scale mining.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project's primary objectives were to: (i) support Kosovo's integration with the
regional energy market through assistance with implementation of its immediate
obligations under the Athens Memorandum, namely the establishment of an independent
Transmission and System Operator (TSO), development of a Grid Code, development of
transmission and retail tariffs including subsidy mechanism, and institutional
strengthening to participate in the market, and (ii) develop a policy framework,
guidelines, and institutional capacity for the utilization of Kosovo's mineral resources.

Key Indicators were:

    ·  The Transmission and System Operator operating under harmonized technical
       rules of operation for a locally unbundled and regionally interconnected system.

    ·  Non-discriminator transmission tariffs for third party access, and a new retail
       tariff system, including subsidy delivery mechanism adopted.

    ·  The mining sector plan approved by PISG and UNMIK, published, publicly
       available and used as the basis for managing Kosovo's mining resources.

    ·  Improved capacity of the SMEs to operate small quarrying and mining businesses.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries of the project included:

    ·  The Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) and PISG, which benefitted from
       improved capacity, which will help strengthen sector governance and bring
       coordinated and transparent decision making to the sector and to integrate
       environmental and social issues in the Mining Sector Strategy;
    ·  The Energy Regulatory Office (ERO), which benefitted from a tariff framework
       and model, including a lifeline tariff, for calculating tariffs to gradually lead to
       cost recovery tariffs;


                                            4

    ·    Small mining operators (SMEs), which benefitted from training, workshops and
         technical assistance to improve their financial, operational and environmental
         performance;
    ·    The Independent Commission for Mines and Minerals (ICMM), which benefitted
         from the Mining Sector Strategy and the training of SMEs to address illegal
         mining operations and corresponding environmental damage to sensitive riparian
         areas.
    ·    Kosovo Transmission System Operator (KOSTT), which was established under a
         transmission policy framework clearly defining its role within the Kosovo
         electricity industry and the regional ECSEE market, development of the TSO
         organizational design and structure and monitoring indicators, transmission tariff
         to cover its costs, assistance in meeting license requirements, and development of
         a grid code and other technical codes.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of two components, one for the energy sector and the other for the
mining sector.

Component 1: Energy Sector

The energy sector component comprised the following two subcomponents:

Subcomponent 1- Transmission and System Operator: This included the development
of a Grid Code for the transmission system, drafting of a transmission policy framework
clearly defining the role of the TSO within the Kosovo electricity industry and the
regional ECSEE market, and development of the TSO organizational design and
structure.

Contract 1 was managed by KOSTT for assistance in the establishment of KOSTT.

Subcomponent 2- Tariff Framework: Development of electricity transmission and retail
tariffs including a lifeline tariff consistent with EU Directives, and improved targeting of
subsidy for the poor.

Contract 2 was managed by ERO for the development of new unbundled transmission
and retail tariffs.

Component 2: Mining Sector

The mining sector component comprised of the following three subcomponents:

Subcomponent 1- Mining Sector Strategy: Development of a Mining Sector Strategy
and building capacity within PISG to implement the plan for both large and small mines.

Managed by MEM, Contract 3 related to development of a mining sector policy and
building capacity within PISG to implement the plan for both large and small mines.

Subcomponent 2- Mining Sector Community Participation and Development Plan:

                                              5

Development of a policy framework and detailed guidelines for communication,
participation, and preparation of development plans for communities that may be affected
by future mining projects.

Managed by MEM, Contract 4 related to development of a policy framework and
detailed guidelines for communication, participation, and preparation of development
plans for communities that may be affected by future mining projects.

Subcomponent 3- Mining Sector SME Capacity Development: Technical assistance to
small scale mining operations (SME) to improve their financial, operational, and
environmental performance.

Managed by ICMM, Contract 5 related to technical assistance to small scale mining
operations (SME) to improve their financial, operational, and environmental
performance.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no changes in the project's design, scope and scale, schedule, and
implementation arrangements. However, in October 2007, there was a reallocation of
funds between approved Categories in the Development Grant Agreement. An amount of
SDR 65,000 from Category 3, `Unallocated' was reallocated to Category 1 `Consultants
Services Including Audit Services'. This reallocation was done to cover the additional
cost for extending Contract 1 "Establishment of a Transmission and System Operator in
Kosovo" financed by the Grant.




                                         6

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

During preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned from previous
Bank-assisted projects in the energy sector in Kosovo and other countries. Likewise, the
design considered the risk factors, and appropriate measures were adopted to mitigate all
major risks identified at appraisal. The project also provided a participatory framework
involving stakeholders and direct beneficiaries in the decision-making processes. The
project team also coordinated closely with other donors in the sector to ensure that there
was no overlap in the technical assistance provided by the Project.

Lessons of earlier operations taken into account.              The ESTAP-III project design
reflected lessons learned from ESTAP I and ESTAP II. Extensive consultation had been
undertaken with UNMIK and PISG officials, managers and administrators of POE and
SOE operations, and the donor community. The lessons learned from various technical
assistance projects, i.e., ownership by local institutions, preparation of comprehensive
terms of reference, selection of competent consultants, detailed reviews for ensuring
quality of consultant's outputs, realistic timeframe, and wide consultations with local
institutions, donors, and other stakeholders, were taken into account in the project design.
The design also benefited from lessons learned from mining technical assistance
programs in Madagascar and Mauritania which focused on improving project design and
implementation by placing an emphasis on beneficiary participation in project
preparation.

The components of ESTAP-III received political support at the highest levels of UNMIK,
and PISG. In addition, the key institutions of KTA1, MEM, ERO, ICMM and KOSTT
were involved in project implementation and were included in the Project Steering
Committee for coordination and implementation of the project.

Risks and Risk Mitigation Measures. The table below shows the risks identified in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) along with the planned mitigation measures and brief
commentary on how the risks evolved during implementation.




1At the outset of the Project, KOSTT had not been established and KTA provided administrative
oversight of power transmission.


                                              7

             Risk                  Mitigation Measure                   Comment
Inadequate capacity of the     Intensive supervision and      Even though adequate
newly created institutions,    selection of competent         capacity has been created in
i.e., MEM, the ERO, and        consultants for capacity       all these institutions, MEM
KOSTT to manage the            building.                      still needs capacity building
project and absorb the full                                   on the energy regulatory
benefits of technical                                         side.
assistance.
Inability to select competent Preparing clear TORs and        Given the newness of the
consultants.                   expediting the selection       institutions, there was closer
                               process for the selection of   and more intensive Bank
                               consultants at the beginning   supervision. The task team
                               of the project.                also devoted time for
                                                              supervising the progress of
                                                              the project when they were
                                                              in Kosovo for LPTAP
                                                              missions.
Difficulty in coordination     Creation of Project Steering   Project Steering Committee
among several agencies that    Committee with                 met regularly and
had to cooperate in efficient  representatives from each      coordinated project
delivery of outputs by the     agency to coordinate           activities. Over the project
consultants.                   activities.                    period, all the agencies
                                                              gained capacity and
                                                              confidence in managing
                                                              their components.

Adequacy of participatory processes

The development of a community consultation framework was to ensure adequate
participatory processes for large scale mining and power development. Both the
government and local communities benefited from capacity building from ESTAP-III to
meet the needs that emerged with early implementation of LPTAP. Under LPTAP the
need for a formal consultation framework led to early deployment of the ESTAP-III
community consultation framework around a large-scale coal mine/power plant
development in Sibovc area.

In addition in implementing the new transmission and retail tariffs, ERO followed a
public consultation process with both electricity sector stakeholders and the larger public.

2.2 Implementation

The project was not restructured and there were no changes to the design, and the project
was never at risk. The Bank conducted a Midterm Review in September 2007, and
assessed the progress to date on all project components, current issues and the actions to
be taken to ensure the successful completion of the project.



The following factors affected project implementation:



                                           8

Positive

In spite of the high turnover of Task Team Leaders (TTLs), implementation was not
affected as the energy specialist and mining specialist continued with the task team until
the closing of all the contracts.

Negative

Disbursement lag. As ESTAP-III was the first project implemented through MEM, due
to lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, the project experienced a significant
disbursement lag in the initial years. However, disbursements picked up during the course
of the project. SDR 93,372.79 were cancelled as of October 31, 2008.

Reserve Authority. As long as UNMIK retained full authority for mineral licensing, the
formal adoption of the Mining Strategy and the draft Mining Law were delayed. It was
agreed to finalize and informally adopt the strategy as working guidelines by MEM.
During preparation of this ICR, Parliamentary review of the new Mining Law to
operationalize the strategy is ongoing. 2

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

(a) M&E Design. According to the PAD, the MEM would be responsible for monitoring
the progress against agreed performance indicators described in Section 1.2. These
indicators were adequate to monitor the project's progress toward PDOs. The MEM had
adequate methods for collecting the data.

A small group of staff, with the necessary skills, were assigned to manage the project. As
the beneficiaries (KOSTT, ERO, ICMM, MEM) gained experience, they took over
managing and monitoring their individual components and monitored the performance of
the consultants in accordance with the contract, reviewed and approved the project's
inception reports, mid-term reports, and final reports issued by the consultants.

(b) M&E implementation. MEM, KOSTT, ERO and ICMM executed and monitored
their respective components well and they provided consultant outputs to the Bank on a
regular basis.

(c) M&E utilization. Appropriate data and outputs collected from MEM and other
beneficiary agencies were evaluated and used for decision-making on project activities.
In particular, ESTAP-III formed strong underpinnings for the Lignite Power Technical
Assistance Project (LPTAP), which aims to provide technical assistance to facilitate
significant private investment into Kosovo's coal and energy resource sectors. The
pending transaction is being facilitated by the introduction of stronger regulatory
instruments including the non-discriminatory transmission tariffs and a new retail tariff
system. The establishment of a transmission system operator has served to facilitate
regional energy trade that will be vital to the new Kosovo power project. And, the

2 UNMIK Regulation 2005/2 was promulgated on 21 January 2005 and on 13 June 2008 this
Regulation was amended into a draft Law No. 03/ L-081. It remains in Parliamentary review at this
time.


                                            9

community consultation framework is facilitating community development forums that
in-turn are building capacity within MEM.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard issues. N/A

Fiduciary issues. There were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank
fiduciary policies and procedures during the implementation of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(a) Transition arrangements. Launching of LPTAP led the regulatory agencies and the
government to use the ESTAP­III outputs in support of this follow-on technical assistance
project which aims to attract large scale investment into the mining and power sectors.

(b) Regional Integration:     The establishment of KOSTT and preparation of its technical
codes harmonized with regional requirements has facilitated the integration of the
electricity system in Kosovo with South East Europe regional electricity market.

(c) Follow-Up. After a request from ERO, the Bank mobilized trust funds to further
support ERO by securing a grant from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
to finance a consulting assignment to assist ERO in establishing the regulatory framework
and regulations for renewable energy resources (RES) in Kosovo.

The Bank and other donors might consider follow-up interventions to address the following
two issues:

        ·   KOSTT would benefit from additional TA related to South East Europe (SEE)
            regional electricity market integration and greater interaction with other TSOs;

        ·   MEM will continue to face emerging policy decisions as LPTAP proceeds
            Additional capacity building and institutional strengthening needs will arise
            around this major coal mine and power plant development. In addition, the
            Mining Sector Strategy has summarized investment potential at Trepca mines
            on which MEM has yet to take actions and further capacity building needs may
            also arise.




                                           10

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective is clear, relevant, and important to Kosovo's economic development. It is
timely and appropriate to the current needs of the country's energy and mining sectors.
The project is also consistent with the IDA's Interim Strategy Note for Kosovo for the
Period FY08, which is founded on the two pillars of the previous ISN: (i) developing new
sources and a higher quality of economic growth; and (ii) ensuring macroeconomic
stability through sound fiscal policy and public finance management. The ISN further
states that "The energy and mining sectors are key to future growth in Kosovo". Since
inception and implementation of ESTAP-III, the government has embarked on a
significant combined energy/mining project that is utilizing the outcomes of ESTAP-III
to their fullest extent.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Satisfactory. At project closing, all ESTAP-III outcomes and PDOs had been achieved.
The following achievements demonstrate the direct correlation between the project's
outputs and their resulting outcomes. For example: An independent Transmission System
Operator (TSO) has been established, the Grid Code and Metering Codes have been
adopted, transmission and retail tariffs including a subsidy mechanism have been
adopted, and institutional strengthening to participate in the market has been provided. A
policy framework for the utilization of Kosovo's mineral resources has been developed,
which resulted in a new draft Mining Law. Guidelines for community consultations and
Guidelines for community development plans consistent with Bank safeguard policies
and international good practice have been developed and are being used in the SESA
consultations under LPTAP. ESTAP-III has provided key support to the enabling
framework for the Kosovo C/LPTAP project, and has also served to enhance the Bank's
influence and dialogue in the energy and mining sector in a manner that is well
appreciated by the client.

The details of the project's achievements are as follows:

Component 1: Energy Sector

Objective 1: Supporting Kosovo's integration with the regional energy market through
assistance for implementation of its immediate obligations under the Athens
Memorandum

    ·   A major milestone has been accomplished by KOSTT completing the preparation
        of the Grid Code and Metering Code, and ERO approving these codes in January
        2007. The new Grid and Metering Codes are now applicable as a secondary
        legislation in the energy sector in Kosovo and they have legally established the
        technical requirements for the connection to and use of Kosovo's transmission
        system in a nondiscriminatory manner by all market participants.

    ·   KOSTT, the independent Transmission System Operator, was established on
        December 25, 2005, and became operational as an independent company on July
        1, 2006. With the finalization of the technical codes and commercial agreements


                                          11

       and in addition to the extensive training in market operation that was provided to
       KOSTT, the company is now in a better position to integrate and harmonize its
       operation with the South East Europe (SEE) regional electricity market.

   ·   As a result of analytical work conducted under Contract 2, ERO issued new
       unbundled transmission and retail tariffs for Kosovo in April 2007. The new
       tariffs were revised by ERO in May 2007 for changes in the revenue requirements
       of KEK and KOSTT. The revision was only for the price level of the tariffs and
       not for their structure. The new retail tariffs include a three-block lifeline tariff for
       household consumers to support an affordable amount of basic electricity needs
       including space heating, and at the same time to discourage excessive electricity
       consumption. In addition to the block lifeline tariff, the government social
       programs include a direct subsidy, through KEK, to vulnerable groups (a total of
       more than 30,000 electricity consumers) for portions of their electricity
       consumption.

Achievement of this objective is satisfactory

Component 2: Mining Sector

Objective 2: Developing a policy framework and institutional capacity for the utilization
of Kosovo's mining resources.

   ·   Development of a Mining sector strategy. The draft sector strategy has been
       finalized and adopted for broader public consultation.           It has been put to
       immediate use in managing mineral resources of Kosovo by informing: (a) the
       LPTAP / Strategic Environmental & Social Assessment and (b) ongoing dialogue
       regarding commercialization of Trepca mines. The sector strategy is being used as
       the basis for the formulation of the new Mining Law under Parliamentary review;.
       once formally adopted, it will be published, made publicly available, and used as
       the basis for managing Kosovo's mining resources.

   ·   Community Consultation and Development framework. The Mining Sector
       Community Participation and Development Plan relates to development of a
       policy framework and detailed guidelines for communication, participation, and
       preparation of development plans for communities that may be affected by future
       mining projects. All reports, workshops, consultations and other deliverables
       under the scope of Contract 4 were satisfactorily prepared and completed by the
       consultants. The outputs of the project have been carried forward to achieve the
       desired outcomes by:

           -   Adopting the framework for use in the LPTAP Strategic Environmental
               and Social Assessment (SESA), achieving the desired outcome of broad
               public consultation and a community-based participatory process in
               resource development.

           -   Integrating the framework within the Mining Sector Strategy to ensure a
               sector wide community-based participatory approach. As such, the desired
               outcome is reflected in the modified behavior that the government has
               been moved to a consultative process.

                                           12

Mining Sector SME Capacity Development

    ·  ICMM has reported the capacity of SMEs to be satisfactory in that a recent
       control and check operation in the Municipalities of Orahovac and Kline reported
       85% compliance in licensed construction materials, which demonstrates a general
       improvement of the construction minerals sector in this area. ICMM also reports
       that the training and capacity building program implemented by ESTAP-III for
       selected quarry operators in the western part of Kosovo led to a revised approach
       that ICMM is implementing Kosovo-wide.

    ·  After completion of this contract, ICMM retained the consultant to extend
       services to the middle and eastern part of Kosovo. As such, the Kosovo Quarry
       Plan was subsequently adopted under UNMIK and is now being showcased
       across the region to other governments; with the Bank observing interest by
       Albania to adopt the same capacity building approach.

Achievement of this objective is satisfactory

3.3 Efficiency

A formal cost/benefit analysis was not done at appraisal because the project financed
only technical assistance activities.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above discussion, the overall outcome is rated as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

Social development has improved significantly in the key enclaves west of Pristina where
a consultation process in the Sibovc basin has civil society engaged in community-based
decision making.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project contributed to substantial institutional development. For details, see Section
3.2

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There was no unintended outcome or impact from the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops N/A


                                           13

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

The only potential risk will be in a situation when there may be a change in
administration after national elections, which could take place in 2009 or 2010, and the
new government may reverse the current policies and decisions, especially on the mining
strategy.   This is, however, not considered likely given Kosovo's interest in the
privatization of Trepca which is embedded in the strategy and a key asset within the
country.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps still remaining after
ESTAP I and II, for interventions in the energy sector of Kosovo. The project design was
consistent with the Recipient's development priorities, in that key regulatory functions
and agencies were in need of the tools to operate, which ESTAP-III provided. During
appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits, and facilitated the
development of a Project Steering Committee to address the concern that many new
agencies had not previously worked together. The Bank had a consistently good working
relationship with the Recipient during preparation and appraisal. The Bank also
encouraged extensive participation of key stakeholders and other donors during this
period. In addition, the Bank took into account all major relevant aspects, such as
technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and financial
management.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately
supervised and closely monitored. Review teams included energy economist, financial
analyst, legal counsel, financial management specialist, procurement specialist, social
scientist, mining specialist, and a power engineer. Back-to-Office Reports were regularly
prepared and transmitted. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated
the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objective
and project implementation. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely
development impact. The quality of advice, and the follow-up on agreed actions were of
a high standard.



                                          14

The Bank's relationship with the beneficiaries, including UNMIK, MEM, KEK, ERO,
KOSTT, ICMM, donors, and consultants was effective and productive. The staff worked
closely with them, and took a consultative and participatory approach on all its activities,
especially on reviewing and commenting on the studies. It conducted joint meetings with
the donors and clients, which helped in mobilizing support for smooth implementation
and avoiding overlaps in the technical assistance financed by the Bank and by other
donors.

The financial management supervision was carried out in two main ways: (i) review of
the project's quarterly financial monitoring reports as well as the project's audited
financial statements and auditor's management letters; and (ii) during the Bank's
supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement
arrangements to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements.

Two on-site financial management supervisions were held for this project. The scope of
the supervision was the review of project accounting and reporting arrangements,
staffing, internal control procedures, planning and budgeting, counterpart funding,
financial manual and external audits. The review found that the financial management
arrangements of the project were satisfactory and adequate control procedures were in
place.

The ESTAP-III project benefited greatly from concurrent LPTAP missions that allowed
the mining/energy teams to intensively focus on ESTAP-III-based reforms and effective
utilization of ESTAP-III results in LPTAP.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Recipient's (UNMIK)3 performance in the preparation of the project was
satisfactory. The Recipient displayed the required level of commitment to the objective
of the project and adequately covered all major aspects, including stakeholder
commitment.

The government's implementation performance was satisfactory.            It consistently
maintained its commitment throughout the implementation even under a complex
political environment. It was responsive and proactive to follow-up on the



3Under the unique administrative arrangements of Kosovo, UNMIK is the official
Recipient, although MEM can be considered both a Recipient and Implementing Agency.


                                         15

recommendations of the studies and implement4 them. In particular, after the creation of
the MEM, the government performance and coordination among UNMIK and PISG
agencies involved in project implementation improved significantly.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The performance of the beneficiary institutions (MEM, KOSTT, ERO, ICMM) was
satisfactory. They were responsible for the selection of the consultants in accordance
with the Bank guidelines, supervision of their work, evaluation of results of the technical
assistance and preparation of follow-up actions. They provided proactive follow-up to
mitigate implementation bottlenecks. They were well organized and effective in dealing
with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of
the project.

Financial management. In general, project financial management was handled
satisfactorily. The MEM assigned to the Director of the Administrative Department the
responsibilities for financial management of the project. The Administrative Director
worked closely with the Grant Unit within the Ministry of Economy and Finance on
disbursement, accounting and auditing issues for the project.

Project financial statements were audited only once by independent auditors. The period
covered by the audit was from the inception date until 31 March 2008. The audit report
had unqualified (clean) opinion and the auditor's management letter did not include any
major recommendation.

The Financial Monitoring Reports were received late, except for the quarter that ended as
of 30 June 2008 which was received in due time.

Procurement Arrangements. Procurement for the project was carried out in accordance
with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
dated May 2004 and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004. Only consultant services were procured.

Reporting Arrangements. The Steering Committee meeting minutes on project oversight
were provided more or less in a timely manner. These reports were informative, and
provided valuable feedback on how the project was progressing covering all project
activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

In light of the government and beneficiary performance as discussed above, the overall
performance of the Recipient was satisfactory.




4Independence of ERO and its authority to recommend tariff increases was initially challenged. It
took some time for ERO to be accepted as a new regulatory institution for Kosovo's energy sector.


                                             16

6. Lessons Learned

   ·  A project is highly effective in implementation when there is a clear identification
      of the needs by the counterpart/borrower. For this project, all the agencies were
      eager to establish their institutions with the help of the technical assistance, and
      the consultants were fully integrated into KOSTT and ERO operations, and the
      performance was good.

   ·  It has been beneficial to have the involvement of NGOs also in the preparation of
      strategic documents. For example, in the preparation of the mining strategy, it is
      important that the consultants financed by the Bank are engaged with a range of
      players, so that even if there is a change of government, the momentum is not lost.

   ·  Strong consultants, when they are able to build trust with a counterpart, can
      overcome low absorptive capacities. The early implementation of ESTAP-III
      underscored the newness of the fledgling Ministry of Energy and Mines.
      Nonetheless, the Ministry was able to compensate through a strong relationship
      with expert consultants.

   ·  There is a need for flexibility so that activities can be rescheduled or revised to
      reflect changing priorities as a new government stands-up and defines its
      development priorities.

   ·  Throughout project implementation the Bank facilitated frequent meetings and
      discussions so that the project would benefit from close cooperation among the
      donors and consultants to avoid overlaps.

   ·  Given the newness of the ministries and the complex sector development now
      underway, MEM would benefit from ongoing capacity building.




                                           17

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

MEM, in providing comments as lead implementing agency, concurs with the Bank's
lessons learned regarding the newness of the government and no prior experience in
implementing donor technical assistance. In this regard MEM has noted that the
placement of one or two experts embedded within the ministry would benefit any follow-
on actions to be taken. This is partially addressed through the newer Lignite Power
Technical Assistance Project (LPTAP), albeit consultants under that project are more
narrowly focused on the enabling environment for a large-scale transaction and less so on
broader sector policy and institutional efficiencies.

The Bank further agrees with MEM's comments regarding the linkages between the
energy and mining sector, with the need to protect the environment. The (a) Bank-
funded Clean Up and Land Reclamation Project and the (b) Strategic Environmental /
Social Assessment under the LPTAP have brought clarity on these linkages. In
particular, the needs of the energy sector are placing exceptional demands on the Ministry
of Environment and Spatial Planning, and joint discussions around key sector
developmental issues between both agencies would be of benefit. This issue will be
brought to the attention of the LPTAP and Clean Up and Land Reclamation Project
teams.



(b) Cofinanciers

N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                           18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



Components                          Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
                                    (US$ Million)                      (US$ Million)
Component 1: Energy Sector
    ·    Establishment of a                        0.80                              0.90
         Transmission and
         System Operator
    ·    Development of a                          0.60                              0.60
         tariff framework
Component 2: Mining Sector
    ·    Development of a                          0.50                              0.50
         mining sector strategy
    ·    Development of a                          0.25                              0.24
         framework for
         community
         participation and
         community
         development plan
    ·    SME capacity                              0.20                              0.20
         development
Audit Fee                                          0.02                              0.01
Incremental Operating Costs5                       0.02                              0.02
Unallocated                                        0.11                                0
Total Project Cost                                 2.50                              2.47


(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                              Type of       Estimate       Estimate     Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing       (USD            (USD        Appraisal
                                                            millions)      millions)


Borrower                                                      0.00            0.02
IDA Grant                                                     2.50            2.45      98%
Total Cost                                                    2.50            2.47      98.8%




5No incremental operating costs were disbursed against the IDA Grant. MEM contributed 5% of the
cost of local consultants and in their records these were shown against operating costs.


                                                  19

     Annex 2. Outputs by Component

     Component 1: Energy Sector

     Contract 1: Establishment of a Transmission and System Operator in Kosovo



   #                 Activity                    Output                Date        Status
D.1.1  Grid Code Contents List                    Paper           End March 2006
                                                                                 Completed

D.1.2  Grid Code Draft version           Formal Deliverable Paper Mid May 2006   Completed
                                              supported by a
                                               Presentation
D.1.3  Grid Code Final version             Formal Deliverable     Mid June 2006  Completed
D.1.4  Metering Code Contents List                Paper           End March 2006
                                                                                 Completed

D.1.5  Metering Code Draft version        Paper supported by a    End April 2006 Completed
                                               Presentation
D.1.6  Metering Code Final version          Final Deliverable     End June 2006  Completed
D.1.7  Electrical Equipment Code Draft            Paper            October 2006  Completed
       Version
D.1.8  Electrical Equipment Code Final      Final Deliverable     December 2006  Completed
       Version                                                                    June 2007
D.1.9  Electrical Standards Code Draft            Paper            October 2006  Completed
       Version
                  ELECTRICAL                Final Deliverable     December 2006  Completed
                  STANDARDS CODE
                  FINAL VERSION




D.1.11 Connection Agreement Draft                 Paper             July 2006
       Technical Requirements                                                    Completed

D.1.12 Connection Agreement Final                 Paper            October 2006
       Technical Requirements                                                    Completed

D.1.13 Interconnector Agreement Draft             Paper             July 2006
       Technical Requirements                                                    Completed

D.1.14 Interconnector Agreement Final             Paper            October 2006  Completed
       Technical Requirements
D.1.15 Technical Codes ­ Implementation   Training Presentations    April 2007   Completed
       and Training
D.1.16 Distribution Code ­ High Level     Report and Presentation September 2006 Completed
       Support and Advice
D.2b.1 Presentation on System Operation        Presentation         May 2006     Completed
       Functions
D.2b.2 Presentation on Scheduling              Presentation       September 2006 Completed
D.2b.3 Discussion Paper: "System                  Paper            October 2006  Completed
       Operation Functions in the
       Electricity Market"
D.2b.4 Presentation on the role and            Presentation         May 2006     Completed
       procurement of ancillary services

                                            20

   #                  Activity                      Output               Date       Status
D.2b.5 Presentation on potential options for     Presentation         June 2006    Completed
       the procurement of ancillary
       services in Kosovo
D.2b.6 Draft Discussion Paper "Role and       Formal Deliverable    September 2006 Completed
       procurement of Ancillary Services"
D.2b.7 Final Discussion Paper "Role and       Formal Deliverable    November 2006  Completed
       procurement of Ancillary Services"
D.2c.1 Working Paper and Presentation on     Paper and Presentation May/June 2006  Completed
       the definition and determination of
       commercial cross-border capacities
       and the related system operator
       functions and processes
D.2c.2 Working Paper and Presentation on     Paper and Presentation May/June 2006  Completed
       congestion management systems,
       including an overview and
       assessment of regional initiatives
D.2c.3 Draft report identifying and           Formal Deliverable    November 2006  Completed
       describing the basic required
       functions, processes and rules and
       recommendations to enable
       implementation during a
       transitional stage.
D.2c.4 Final report identifying and           Formal Deliverable     January 2007  Completed
       describing the basic required
       functions, processes and rules and
       recommendations to enable
       implementation during a
       transitional stage.
D.3a.1 Development of the basic new                 Paper           Mid April 2006 Completed
       organisation for the technical
       functions
D.3a.2 Development of the new                       Paper           Mid May 2006   Completed
       organisation for the business
       administration functions
D.3a.3 Detailed Structure of subdivisions ­         Paper           Mid May 2006   Completed
       duties and responsibilities
D.3a.4 Personal skills of the organisation          Paper           End June 2006  Completed
       design of the technical and business
       administration functions
D.3a.5 Identification of work processes and         Paper             July 2006    Completed
       information flows which link
       business units
D.3a.6 Merging of Functions                         Paper            August 2006   Completed
D.3a.7 Development of the new                       Paper           September 2006 Completed
       organisation for the market
       functions
D.3a.8 Draft Paper detailing the Design of    Formal Deliverable    September 2006 Completed
       the ITSMO Organisation
D.3a.9 Final Paper detailing the Design of    Formal Deliverable    November 2006  Completed
       the ITSMO Organisation




                                              21

        #                  Activity                       Output                    Date             Status
    D.3a.10  Discussion Paper regarding the               Paper               November 2006        Completed
             organisation of a non-regulated
             telecommunication business
    D.3a.11  Implementation Support               Training Presentations      Until December       Completed
                                                                                    2006
    D.3b.1   Common Strategies for Measuring     Paper and Presentation        October 2006        Completed
             Performance
    D.3b.2   Outline Proposals for Key                    Paper               December 2006        Completed
             Performance Indicators (KPIs) and
             Data Analysis
    D.3b.3   Develop Methodology for                Final Deliverable          February 2007       Completed
             Calculation of KPIs
    D.3b.4   Draft Report including a set of       Formal Deliverable          February 2007       Completed
             performance indicators, ITSMO
             data and a methodology for
             calculating the indicators
    D.3b.5   Final Report including a set of       Formal Deliverable           March 2007         Completed
             performance indicators, ITSMO
             data and a methodology for
             calculating the indicators
    D.3b.6   Implementation and Training          Training Presentation          April 2007        Completed
    D.3c.1   Discussion paper on scope and form           Paper               November 2006        Completed
             of required contracts, including
             high-level contractual options
    D.3c.2   Supporting presentation to provide        Presentation            October 2006        Completed
             training and ensure understanding
    D.3c.3a  Commercial Contracts First            Formal Deliverable          January 2007        Completed
             Tranche (LPA and CA)
    D.3c.3b  Commercial Contracts for Full         Formal Deliverable            April 2007        Completed
             Market (ITA)



          Contract 2: Electricity Transmission and Retail Tariffs and Subsidy Delivery
          Mechanism



Task No.      Task Name                         Output                                                 Status

D.1.0         Task 1 ­ Legal Framework and      Report summarising the results of the review of the    Completed
              Tariff Review                     interface between the Market Rules and Tariff
                                                Methodology and recommendations for any changes
                                                to both documents.
D 2.0         Task 2: Metering Evaluation       Report summarising findings of metering                Completed
                                                study(submitted to the CT)

D 3.0         Task 3: Ancillary Services        Report setting out the results of the above study      Completed
              Evaluation                        evaluating the costs of providing ancillary services.



Task 4 - Mechanisms for Recovering Renewable Generation & Other Costs




                                                   22

Task No.        Task Name                            Output                                                Status

D 4.1           Subtask 4.1: ERO License Fees        Report setting out the review of the level of license Completed
                                                     fees required to fund ERO


D 4.2           Subtask 4.2 : Preferential           Report proposing cost recovery mechanisms for         Completed
                Generation & Stranded Costs          preferentially dispatched-generation and stranded
                                                     costs

Task 5 - Transmission Tariffs

D5.1 & D5.2 * Subtasks 5.1 & 5.2: Cost               Report summarising approach taken, Model(s) and       Completed
                Allocation and Tariff Structure      Manual
                Models (ITSMO)

D5.3 & D5.4     Subtasks 5.3 & 5.4: Asset            Submission by Consultants to ERO of revenue           Completed
                Valuation, Cost Assessment &         requirements with explanatory documentation.
                revenue requirements

D5.5 *          Subtask 5.5 ­ TSO Tariff             Submission by Consultants to ERO of final tariff      Completed
                Application to ERO                   proposals, using TAGs forms, with any necessary
                                                     explanatory documentation.

Task 6 ­ (Distribution), Retail and Life Line Tariffs
This section covers the data, for which KEMA is responsible, for the WSIM, for the revenue requirements of the Public
Supplier, the DSO, and for the final tariffs.

D6.1 (a)        Subtask 6.1 (a): Tariff Structure & Submission to CT of draft discussion paper             Completed
                Subsidy Proposals                    providing background & options for retail tariffs and
                                                     subsidy mechanisms for low-income customers.

D6.1 (b)        Subtask 6.1 (b): Tariff Structure & Report proposing measures to reduce non-technical      Completed
                Subsidy Proposals                    losses

D6.2 *          Subtask 6.2 (a): Cost Allocation     Report summarising work on this subtask, Model(s)     Completed
                and Tariff Structure Modelling       and Manual submitted to ERO in English (after
                                                     approval by the CT)


D6.3 & D6.4     Subtasks 6.3 & 6.4: Asset            Submission by Consultants to ERO of revenue           Completed
                Valuation, Cost Assessment &         requirements with explanatory documentation.
                revenue requirements

D6.5*           Subtask 6.5 ­KEK Tariff              Submission by Consultants to ERO of final tariff      Completed
                Application to ERO                   proposals, using TAGs forms, with any necessary
                                                     explanatory documentation

Task 7: Project Management, Inception Phase, Working with ERO

n/a             Inception Report                     Submission of Inception report to ERO                 Completed

D7.1 *          Interim report                       Submission of Interim report to ERO                   Completed

D7.2            Advice to ERO on revenue and         Help to ERO with assessing the revenue and tariff     Completed
                tariff submissions                   submissions

D7.3 *          Draft Final Report                   Submission of draft Final Report                      Completed

D7.4 *          Final report and Models              Submission of Final Report and Models                 Completed

Task 8 ­ Training



                                                        23

Task No.     Task Name                            Output                                               Status

D8.1         Subtask 8.1 ­ Computer Model         Two one-day- workshops on training in the use of     Completed
             Workshops                            the computer models

D8.2         Subtask 8.2 ­ Work Group             Eight Work Group Sessions                            Completed
             Sessions


        Component 2 ­ Mining Sector

        Subcomponent 1 ­ Mining Sector Strategy

        All reports, workshops, consultations and other deliverables under the scope of Contract
        3 were satisfactorily prepared and completed by the consultant. After review by MEM,
        the findings of the work program relating to the economic evaluation of sector potential,
        the mining strategy, and the fiscal and regulatory framework to ensure private-sector led
        growth were adopted. The outputs of the project have been carried forward to desired
        outcomes in that:

           ·    The sector strategy is being used as the basis for the formulation of a new mining
                law (draft form under review).

             TASK          Reporting requirements         Specific Deliverables
                                                          Updated and consolidated mineral deposit
                1          Inception Report
                                                          database
         Data Collection "Data Support"
                                                          Updated consolidated map data in MEM GIS
                                                          Economic assessment database for mineral
                2
                           Inception Report               deposits
             Assess
                           "Economic Assessment of Documentation of the methodology for
           Economic
                           Sector Potential"              economic assessment of mineral deposits
            Potential
                                                          Statement of economic potential of the sector
                                                          Description of an undeveloped mineral
                                                          resources allocation procedure
                3                                         Description of a lignite resource allocation
                           Inception Report
            Develop                                       procedure
                           "Action priorities to be taken
             Action                                       Description of outstanding environmental and
                           by UNMIK and PISG"
            Priorities                                    social issues
                                                          Statement of required action steps to be taken
                                                          by UNMIK and PISG
                4          Inception Report
         Preparation of    "Draft Mining Sector
                                                          Mining sector strategy document
         a mining sector   Strategy Document"
             strategy      Public Consultation Report
                5                                         Implementation plan for the mining sector
          Governance       Draft mining sector strategy   strategy
               and         implementation plan            Supporting materials for mining sector
         Implementation                                   strategy promotion
                6          Course report ARC-GIS training
            Capacity       Course material ARC-GIS training
            building       Course report ARC-GIS specials
                           Course materials ARC-GIS specials
                           Course report "Economic assessment of mineral deposits -
                           Economic fundamentals"

                                                      24

     TASK         Reporting requirements           Specific Deliverables
                  Course materials "Economic assessment of mineral deposits -
                  Economic Fundamentals"
                  Course report "Economic assessment of mineral deposits -
                  Practical application of mine economics"
                  Course materials "Economic assessment of mineral deposits -
                  Practical application of mine economics"
                  Course report "Mining sustainability"
                  Course materials "Mining sustainability"


Subcomponent 2 ­ Mining Sector Community Participation and Development Plan

All reports, workshops, consultations and other deliverables under the scope of Contract
4 were satisfactorily prepared and completed by the consultants. The outputs of the
project have been carried forward to achieve the desired outcomes by:

   ·   Adopting the framework for use in the LPTAP Strategic Environmental and
       Social Assessment (SESA), achieving the desired outcome of broad public
       consultation and a community-based participatory process in resource
       development.
   ·   Passing of the framework to consultants working on Contract 3 to ensure that the
       Mining Sector Strategy reflected this same consultative and community-based
       participatory approach. The desired outcome is reflected in the modified
       behavior that the government has been moved to a consultative process.

Outputs       Output title                          Date of delivery                    Other
/Activity                                                               Comments Reports/Notes
                                                                         (Date of
                                                                        delivery)
Output 1      Initial background analysis           (September 2006 )                   Regular
              (Activity 1.1 and 1.2)                                              Monthly
               mobilisation and initial contacts)                                 Reports
Output 2      Roles and Responsibilities of                                       Overarching
              various stakeholders in promoting     (September 14 2006)           Activity:
              responsible business practices                                      Mentoring and
              (Activity 1.3)
                                                                                  training
Output 3      International policy background       (September 14 2006)
              and key initiatives
              (Activity 1.4)


Output 4      Inception report - initial team notes, (October 16 2006)
              project plan, timeline and tasks,
              initial discussions and mentoring
              plan (Activity 1.5)
Output 5      Review of key challenges for
              mining in Kosovo (Activity 2.1).       (November 20 2006)
              Review of Kosovan context for
              community consultation and
              community development



                                             25

Outputs    Output title                         Date of delivery                     Other
/Activity                                                         Comments Reports/Notes
                                                                  (Date of
                                                                  delivery)
Output 6   Report- key aspects of good
           practice including methods of        (January 24 2007)
           community participation, roles and
           responsibilities, capacity building,
           dispute resolution and decision-
           making tools for difficult trade-
           offs. (Activity 2.2 International
           review of good practice in
           community consultation)
Output 7   Review of inernational best
           practice in community development (January 24 2007)
           (Activity 2.3)
Output 8   Summary document-public policy
           for community consultation and       (November 27 2007)
           community development in relation
           to mining in Kosovo (Activity 2.4.
           Review of Relevant Public Policy
           in Kosovo)
Output 9   Short summary-Key themes in
           community consultation and           (February 20 2007)
           community development plans
           consultations assessing their
           relationship to: a) key elements of
           the UNMIK/PISG framework, and
           b) the international review of good
           practice (Activity 2.5. Initial
           consultation on community
           consultation and community
           development plans)
Output 10  Draft Community Consultation         (May 4 2007)          August 17 2007
           Guidelines (Activity 3.1)
Output 11  Draft Community Development          (May 4 2007)          August 17 2007
           Framework (Activity 3.2)
Output 12  Summary of response to draft         (July 31 2007)
           Guidelines and Framework
           (Activity 3.3 Consultation on Draft
           Community Consultation
           Guidelines and Community
           Development Framework, Activity
           3.4. Review and revision of
           Guidelines and Framework
Output 13  Workshop minutes and interim         (July 26 2007)
           report to Client (Activity 3.5.
           Review of feedback on Guidelines
           and Framework )
Output 14  Final draft community consultation   (August 07 2007)   Electronic version
  and 15   and community development                               delivered
           frameworks (Activity 3.6. Redraft
           the Guidelines and the Framework)


                                          26

          Outputs       Output title                         Date of delivery                        Other
          /Activity                                                               Comments Reports/Notes
                                                                                   (Date of
                                                                                  delivery)
          Output 16     Document- analysis of legal
                        implications of community            (September 14
                        development and community            2007)
                        consultation plans;
                        recommendations on possible
                        implementation mechanisms,
                        identification of preferred options;
                        implementation strategy document
                        with agreed timeline (Activity 4.1.
                        Governance and Implementation. )
          Output 17     Dissemination brochure (Activity                          Electonic version
                        4.2 Development of dissemination     (October 24 2007)    in albanian
                        brochure, Activity 4.3.
                        Dissemination)
          Output18,19 Final report, workshops and            October/November
            and 20      annexed training manual. (Activity   2007
                        4.3)




         Subcomponent 3 ­ Mining Sector SME Capacity Development

         Supervised by ICMM, Contract 5 related to technical assistance to small scale mining
         operations (SME) to improve their financial, operational, and environmental
         performance.

         The Chief Inspector of mines reported in September 2007 fully satisfactory
         implementation of all reports, guidelines and workshops; and that the pilot enterprise
         program and training program for the selected quarry operators was highly successful.
         ICMM also reported previously on having achieved the desired outcome significant
         improvements in operational and financial performance of the sector. After completion of
         contract 5, ICMM retained the consultant to extend services to the middle and eastern
         part of Kosovo. The Kosovo Quarry Plan was subsequently adopted under UNMIK and is
         now being showcased across the region to other governments.

Nr  Status            Activity                                    Output                            Date


1   Inception Report  Assessment and drafting the inception       Inception Report                   February 2007
                      report


2   First Training:   Training contained the following: -         Five companies covering each       04/01/2007 -
    Direct TA         Management and organization, health and     region. The number of participants 15/01/2007
                      safety at work, technology and operating,   is about 24 for all companies
                      financial and accounting




                                                       27

3  Second training; Three day workshop for 15 companies. The Eight modules were delivered             11/05/2007 -
   Workshop on      training included two days in the class and a covering the discussion point       27/05/2007
   quarring and     day field work. The total number of           during the classroom work. The
   construction     participants: 58                             field work included visit to a quarry
   materials                                                     company and demonstration at
   production                                                    testing laboratory


4  Third training:  A one day seminar was organized at three      The seminar included: Transfer of 28/06/2007 -
   Seminars         centers of Kosova: Peja, Prizren and          knowledge and experience,           02/07/2007
                    Drenas. The total number of participants: 75 technical and organizational
                                                                 support, Direct on site comments
                                                                 and advice, discussion and
                                                                 expression of own views.


5  Final Report     Final Report submitted to ICMM               The Final Report approved by         July 2007
                                                                 ICMM included: Project Report,
                                                                 Pilot Programme and Sector
                                                                 Review and Businesses
                                                                 Processes




                                                   28

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                        29

     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


         (a) Task Team members


           Names                         Title            Unit     Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)

Mohinder Gulati              Project Team Leader        ECSIE   Mining

Sanjay Sinha                 Operations Officer                 Project operations

Husam Mohamed Beides         Sr. Power Engineer         ECSIE   Power Engineering

Olav Rex Christensen         Sr. Financial Management   ECSPS   Financial Management
                             Specialist

Leonid Vanian                Procurement Specialist     ECSPS   Procurement

Stan Peabody                 Lead Social Scientist      ECSSD   Social Science

Bernard Baratz               Consultant                 EASEG

Hjalte Sederlof              Consultant                 ECSHD

Yolanda Gedse                Program Assistant          ECSIE

Mark Walker                  Lead Counsel               LEGEC   Legal

Joseph Formoso               Sr. Finance Officer        LOAGl   Finance

Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


Michael Stanley              Lead Mining Specialist     COCPO   Mining


Edon Vrenezi                 Operations Officer         ECSSD   Project operations


Husam Beides                 Senior Energy Specialist   MNSSD   Energy Sector


John Hodges                  Infrastructure Specialist  ECSSD   Infrastructure

Varadarajan Atur             Lead Energy Specialist     AFTEG   Finance

Jann Masterson               Operations Officer         ECSSD   Project Operations

Elona Gjika                  Financial Management       ECSPS   Financial Management
                             Specialist




         (b) Staff Time and Cost



                                               30

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)

Lending

 FY04                                    1                           4.98
 FY05                                  32                          171.45
 FY06                                                                7.06
 FY07                                                                0.00
 FY08                                                                0.0


                        Total:         33                         183.49
Supervision/ICR
 FY04                                                                0.0
 FY05                                                                2.35
 FY06                                  17                           86.18
 FY07                                    8                          60.20
 FY08                                  14                           72.80
 FY09                                                               45.94


                        Total:         39                         267.47




                                 31

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result

N/A




                                   32

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(if any)

N/A




                                  33

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  34

35

36

37

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                   38

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   ·   Project Implementation Plan
   ·   Project Appraisal Document for Kosovo Energy Sector Technical Assistance
       Project III, dated February 24, 2005 (Report no: 31430-XK)
   ·   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.
   ·   Project Progress Reports.




*including electronic files




                                         39

40

