Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4253
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS SECOND PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 767-HO)
December 30, 1982
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .      ...................................................
BASIC DATA SHEET ...........................................
HIGHLIGHTS ..........      .......................................  v
I.   INTRODUCTION  ..........................           ....1
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .....................        1
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST ....................           3
IV.   TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS .....   ...................... ... .    8
V.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE . .............. ........... .......    10
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT       .............  15
VII.   ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ...... ........ ..o .... .......... .... .  17
VIII.   THE ROLE OF THE BANK ..................... %.........e*.      21
IX.   CONCLUSIONS ........    ...................................   21
TABLES
1.   Actual and Expected Project Implementation       ............  23
2.   Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs .......       24
3.   Efficiency Indicators - Puerto Cortes        ................  25
4.   Traffic - Puerto Cortes ................... .........         26
5.   Traffic - Amapala/San Lorenzo ........     .................  27
6.   Actual and Projected Revenues and Expenses (1971-1978)        28
7.   Actual and Projected Revenues for the Project Ports    ...    29
8.   Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (1971-1979) .......       30
9.   Actual and Expected Financing During Project Period ...       31
FIGURES
Figure 1. Schematic Layout, Puerto Cortes
Figure 2. San Lorenzo Vicinity
Figure 3. Schematic Layout, San Lorenzo
ANNEX I: Borrower Comments
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: SECOND PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 767-HO)
Preface
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Honduras Second
Port Project for which Loan 767-HO for US$6 million equivalent was approved
on June 25, 1971. Thereafter, in order to meet the increased cost of the
project, the Bank made a supplemental loan of US$3 million, an amending
agreement to Loan 767-HO was approved on July 30, 1975. Loan 767-HO was
fully disbursed by December 31, 1978.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting this PCR was prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office and read in the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) but
the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft PCR was sent to the
Borrower for comments. The Borrower expressed his conformity with the
report by a telex dated November 24, 1982, annexed to this report.






- ii -
BASIC DATA SHEET
Appraisal          Actual or
Item                                 Expectation       Current Estimate
Project Cost (US$ Million)
Puerto Cortes                                   5.9                  5.7
San Lorenzo (Henecan)                           3.9                 14.2
Total                              9.8                 19.9
(Underrun)or Overrun %
Puerto Cortes                                                       (4%)
San Lorenzo                                                        264%
Total                                                103%
Loan Amount (US$ Million)                          6.0                 9.0
(including supple-
mental loan of 3.0)
Disbursed                                                            9.0
Canceled                                                             NIL
Repaid to 3.31.80                                                    1.225
Outstanding to 3.31.80                                               7.775
Date Physical Component Completed
Puerto Cortes                                   @ Dec. 74        April 75
San Lorenzo (Henecan)                           @ Dec. 74        Jan. 79 a/
Proportion Completed by
Puerto Cortes                                   100%                70%
San Lorenzo                                     100%                 NIL
Time Overrun %
Puerto Cortes                                                       21%
San Lorenzo                                                        241%
Economic Rate of Return %
Puerto Cortes                                    40%                27%
San Lorenzo                                      33%                 8% b/
a/ There was a three year delay in the starting date of this component.
b/ There were important changes in scope of project between Appraisal and
Project Completion in 1979.






- iii -
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ 000)
FY72    FY73    FY74    FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79
Estimated       470   2,760   5,720   6,000   7,000   8,000   9,000
Actual                        1,619   3,400   3,800   5,800   8,300   9,000
Actual/Estimated (%)             28      57      54      72      92     100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                    Actual or
Item                              Plan        Revisions    Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable 3/
Government's Application 3/
Negotiations                                                         5/4/71
Board Approval                                                       6/17/71
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                           6/25/71
Effectiveness Date                      9/23/71       12/22/71       2/22/72
Closing Date                            6/30/75        9/30/78      12/31/78
Borrower                                Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP)
Executing Agency                        Empresa Nacional Portuaria (ENP)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                 January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name                  Third Port Project
Loan/Credit Number                    Loans 1396-HO/1395-T-HO, Credit 696-HO
Amount (US$ Million)                  17.0 Million
Loan/Credit Agreement Date            4/22/77
MISSION DATA
Sent    Month/    No. of,    No. of             2    Date of
Item         by      Year      Weeks -    Persons    Manweeks-/   Report
Identification 3/
Preparation 3/
Preappraisal 3/
Appraisal          IBRD     1/71        3          3          9.0
Total                            3                     9.0
1/ Number of 5-day weeks shown in the mission report plus travel.
2/ Number of weeks times number of persons.
3/ Record not available.






- iv -
Sent     Month/     No   f     No. of             2/ Date of
Item                by        Year      Weeks      Persons     Manweeks-  Report
Supervision I            IBRD       5/72        1           1         1.0       5/72
Supervision II           IBRD      11/72        1           3         3.0      12/72
Supervision III          IBRD       5/73        1           1         1.0       6/73
Supervision IV           IBRD      11/73        1           1         1.0       1/74
Supervision V            IBRD      7/8/74       1           2         2.0       v/74
Supervision VI           IBRD       5/75       1/2          1         0.5       6/75
Supervision VII          IBRD       2/76        1           2         2.0       3/76
Supervision VIII         IBRD       5/77        1           3         3.0       6/77
Supervision IX           IBRD      10/77        1           1         1.0      11/77
Supervision X            IBRD       3/78        1           1         1.0       4/78
Supervision XI           IBRD      4/5/78       1           3         3.0       5/78
Supervision XII          IBRD      11/78        1           1         1.0      11/78
Total       15                    28.5
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)               Lempira (Lemp.)
A. Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average (1971)                             US$l= Lemp. 2.00
Intervening Year Average                                  US$l= Lemp. 2.00
Completion Year Average (1978)                            US$1= Lemp. 2.00
1/ Number of 5-day weeks shown in the mission report plus travel time.
2/ Number of weeks times number of persons.






HIGHLIGHTS
The project was the second Bank loan to Honduras for ports; it
followed the first project by a period of five years, focusing on the
improvement and expansion of port facilities at Puerto Cortes on the
Atlantic (Caribbean) Coast and the replacement of lighterage operations
at Amapala by new deep water berthing facilities at San Lorenzo (Henecan)
on the Pacific Coast. The project at Puerto Cortes provided for meeting
the volume of containerized and roll-on/roll-off traffic that had begun
to grow in the Caribbean Region, while the project at San Lorenzo was the
building of an entirely new port to provide berths which permitted ships
to be serviced better and faster by means of mechanized cargo handling
equipment.
The Puerto Cortes project component was finished satisfactorily
with slight time and cost overruns (when compared with those estimated at
appraisal); it was very timely since it enabled ENP to develop Puerto Cortes
at the time that a modern container handling port was needed on the Caribbean
Coast (paras 3.03 and 3.05). As for the San Lorenzo project component, there
was a delay of about three years before the civil works commenced (1972 to
1975); construction and other difficulties extended completion of works by
over a year (1977 to 1978) with significant cost overruns, due to port cons-
truction costs rapidly rising between 1973 and 1975 and important changes
in the scope of the works (paras 3.07-3.17).
Actual port traffic at Puerto Cortes was close to the forecast
while at San Lorenzo it was considerably lower than expected. This traffic
shortfall was mainly caused by fewer lumber and cotton exports than expected
and the attainment of lower general cargo imports (paras 4.01-4.02).
Overall financial performance of the Port Authority has been
satisfactory and has essentially complied with the various financial covenants
included in the Loan Agreement (paras 5.01-5.12).
The institution-building objectives of the loan have been achieved.
The Port Authority has become a well run, appropriately staffed, operationally
efficient and relatively autonomous enterprise with responsibility for all
port subsector facilities (paras 6.01-6.05).
The revised economic rate of return (RERR) for the Puerto Cortes
project component is satisfactory (27%) while the RERR for the San Lorenzo
project component is now only 8%. This low RERR is the result of lower than
forecast traffic levels and cost overruns (paras 7.01-7.11).






- vi -
The following points are of special interest:
- Succesful realization of the institution-building objectives
(paras 6.01-6.05).
- Adequacy of the debt limitation covenant (paras 5.12 and 9.05).
- Borrower's proposal for a revolving fund as a remedy for delayed
payments (para 3.20).
- Unexpected soil conditions (para 3.09).






PROJECT COMPLETION PEPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Honduras, the second largest country in Central America in terms of
area, has two coast lines: the major one on the Caribbean Sea and a smaller
one on the Pacific Ocean. Its terrain is mountainous and the climate is
tropical. Bananas, lumber, coffee, cattle and sugar are the major goods
produced. Ports play a key role in the country's international trade, handling
nearly 95% of total imports and exports. Puerto Cortes on the Caribbean is
the country's principal port, accounting for more than 70% of all seaborne
traffic. Until this project, the small ports of Amapala and San Lorenzo on
the Gulf of Fonseca had served as the gateway on the Pacific side.
1.02      In 1966, the Bank made Loan No. 463-HO to Empresa Nacional Portuaria
(ENP) for the building of two deepwater berths and supporting facilities at
Puerto Cortes. Even before the successful completion of these facilities in
1970, it was evident that the traffic, which was growing at a faster rate than
had been forecast, would soon warrant further expansion of the port's capacity.
ENP therefore commissioned a U.S. firm of consultants (who had provided
engineering services for the first port project) to carry out a feasibility
study. ENP also investigated the development for a deepwater port on the
Pacific Coast through a study which was financed under Loan 463-HO and carried
out by a Dutch firm of consultants. The recommendations of these two studies
formed the two main components of the Second Port Project, which is the
subject of this Project Completion Report (PCR).
1.03      The following are the sources of information on which the PCR is
based: (a) Appraisal Report, (b) Supervision Summaries, (c) Quarterly
Progress Reports, (d) LAC Information Center and Document Collection and
(e) Draft PCR prepared by ENP.
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      The two studies referred to in paragraph 1.02, undertaken by ENP
with the encouragement of the Bank, provided the basis for the preparation
of the project. The project involved the expansion of capacity at the existing
port of Cortes on the Caribbean Coast and the construction of an entirely
new port at Henecan (3 km to the south of San Lorenzo) on the Pacific Coast.
In the case of the expansion of Puerto Cortes, the project scope as appraised
was largely along the lines of the recommendations of the consultants. For the
new port at San Lorenzo (Henecan), however, the layout of the wharf as agreed
during appraisal differed from that proposed in the study. The project
provided for a T-shaped wharf 290 m long and 25 m wide with a central access
bridge and transit shed on shore, whereas the study envisaged an L-shaped
wharf 123 m x 75 m with an access bridge at one end and a transit shed 78 m x
35 m occupying a large area of the deck. Other components of the project were
in accordance with the consultants' proposals.



- 2 -
2.02      The objectives of the project were:
(i)  to expand port facilities at Puerto Cortes to meet the require-
ments of the growing volume and changing nature (roll-on/roll-off)
of traffic;
(ii) to replace the inefficient lighterage operations for the majority
of vessels calling at Amapala by providing alongside deepwater
berthing facilities at San Lorenzo.
2.03      The project as appraised consisted of:
A.   At Puerto Cortes
(i)  Construction of a new deepwater wharf 285 m long for banana and
lumber loading;
(ii) Procurement of a belt conveyor system for banana loading;
(iii)  Land reclamation of about eight acres and construction thereon
of a new railroad yard to handle banana and lumber wagons;
(iv) Construction of a roll-on/roll-off ramp at the junction of
Government Wharves 1 and 2;
(v)  Construction of roads and parking and open storage areas;
(vi) Procurement of a tugboat, pilot boat, forklift trucks and
pallets;
(vii)  Acquisition of about 25 acres of land needed for the project; and
(viii)  Provision of engineering consultant services.
B.   At San Lorenzo
(i)  Construction of a new "T" shaped deepwater wharf 290 m long and
25 m wide for lumber and general cargo, with an access bridge
20 m long and 10 m wide;
(ii) Reclamation of about seven acres of land for storage and parking;
(iii)  Construction of a transit shed, administration and operations
buildings, utilities and fencing;
(iv) Construction of an access road about 2.5 km long to connect the
port facilities with San Lorenzo town;
(v)  Procurement of a pilot boat and cargo handling equipment;
(vi) Procurement and installation of navigation aids;
(vii)  Acquisition of about 15 acres of land needed for the project; and
(viii)  Provision of engineering consultant services.



- 3 -
2.04      The identification and preparation of the project were timely, and
the project was designed for adequately meeting the short term needs with
suitable provision for improvements being made later for future demands.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
3.01      Tables 1 and 2 show the variations in the time and cost of project
implementation between that envisaged at appraisal and that actually achieved.
The circumstances leading to these variations are discussed in the following
paragraphs.
A.   Delay in Loan Effectiveness
3.02      The Loan Agreement was signed on June 25, 1971 and normally should
have become effective by September 23, 1971. However, this date was postponed
three times initially because the newly elected Honduran Congress had not had
time to consider the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and later because the
Congress gave only a conditional approval to the part of the loan relating to
the construction of a new port at San Lorenzo. On November 25, 1971, the
Congress passed a decree deferring its construction until there were assu-
rances that the location fully responded to Honduran interests - territorial,
economic, strategic and others - in the Gulf of Fonseca. On December 15, 1971,
the Congress passed a new bill modifying the earlier decision and authorizing
ENP to proceed with Part A (Puerto Cortes) of the project and directing ENP to
undertake studies and investigations and to establish that construction of a
port at San Lorenzo would fully respond to the country's interest in the Gulf
of Fonseca before starting work on Part B (San Lorenzo) of the project. This
decision was discussed at a meeting with ENP in Washington on February 19, 1972
when it was agreed that if, by July 31, 1972, ENP did not decide in favor of
the port at San Lorenzo, the amount of US$2.4 million included in the loan
for that work would be canceled. The loan was actually made effective a few
days later on February 22, 1972.
B.   Execution of Works at Puerto Cortes
(i) Execution Schedule
3.03      Because ENP could not initiate negotiations with the consultants
until a clearance was given by the Congress on December 15, 1971, it was
January 1972 before consultants were appointed to carry out the final design
and bidding documents for the works at Puerto Cortes. Bidding documents were
issued to qualified bidders in October 1972, and offers were received early
in January 1973. The contract was awarded to the low bidder in February 1973,
and work started in March 1973, more than a year behind the schedule envisaged
at appraisal. The contractor maintained good progress and completed the works
in April 1975 within the contract period of 670 days, although his work had
been slowed down for a couple of months following the dislocation of transport
due to Hurricane Fifi in September 1974. The new wharf at Puerto Cortes was
inaugurated on March 21, 1975, only three months later than the appraisal
target date.



-4-
(ii) Revisions
3.04      Revisions agreed during execution related to the deletion of. the
roll-on/roll-off platform, an increase in the width of the wharf at the west
end and decking over a depression in the rear of the access wharf.     All these
revisions helped to improve the operating conditions without adding to the
costs or time for construction.   Because of the success of a United Fruit
Company experiment with containerization of bananas, ENP also decided not to
acquire the belt conveyor system.
(iii) Cost
3.05      The bid of the successful bidder amounted to L 9,187,316.     This
amount included L 331,103 for repairs to lWharf No. 1, which were agreed to be
carried out under the same contract although not financed by the Bank. The
remaining amount, L 8,856,200 (US$4,428,100), was lower than the consultants'
estimate of L 10,888,000 and just within the appraisal estimate (US$4,597,000)
inclusive of contingencies) for civil works at Puerto Cortes. The foreign
exchange component of the contract price was 66% (comprising 40% in Dutch
Guilders and 26% in US$) as against the appVaisal estimate of 57%.     The
appreciation of the Dutch Guilder after bid opening (an estimated additional
cost of US$177,000) raised the final cost ofi,the contract to US$4,605,100.
3.06      The execution of the works at Puerto Cortes was quite satisfactory,
with marginal variation from the appraisal estimate with regard to time as
well as cost.
C.   Execution of Works at San Lorenzo
(i) Execution Schedule
3.07      At the request of ENP, the Bank agreed to extend the deadline for
a decision on the construction of a port at San Lorenzo from July 31 to
October 31, 1972. In the last week of October, ENP informed the Bank that
the Government had finally decided against a port at San Lorenzo and wanted
instead to develop Amapala as the deepwater port on the Pacific Coast.
Consequently, it was agreed that ENP should request cancellation of
US$2.4 million earmarked in the loan for San Lorenzo less US$200,000 to
cover the cost of a study for developing Amapala. Before this proposal was
processed in the Bank, there was a change of Government in Honduras in
December 1972 and a new Board of Directors was appointed for ENP. The new
Board decided, with the approval of the Government, against the earlier
decision for developing Amapala and to go ahead with the original proposal
for a port at San Lorenzo. Accordingly, ENP contracted consultants in June
1973 for preparing the final engineering and bidding documents and for super-
vision of construction. Although the consultants had agreed to get the bid
documents ready in five to six months, they took nearly 12 months to complete
this work, mainly because the soil investigations which were to be carried out
with the equipment and operators of the Government's Highway Department were
delayed. Invitations to bid were issued in October 1974, and five bids were
received, the lowest being for a sum of L 20.6 million (US$10.3 million) as
against the consultants' estimate (May 1974) of US$6.0 million and the



appraisal estimate of US$3.14 million (inclusive of contingencies). Because of
the high prices, which were attributed mainly to worldwide increases in the
prices for heavy civil works (which had exceeded the general increase in
prices since the appraisal in 1971), ENP decided, with the agreement of the
Bank, to cancel the bids and to negotiate with the low bidder on the basis of
some changes in the scope and specifications of the work. After obtaining the
necessary Presidential Decree, ENP completed the negotiations and signed a
contract for a sum of L 18.12 million (US$9.06 million) on October 18, 1975,
with a completion period of 700 days ending on September 18, 1977.
3.08       In order to meet the increased cost of the project, ENP requested
additional financial assistance from the Bank. The Bank made a supplemental
loan of US$3.0 million, after a review of the economic evaluation had indicated
that the project yielded an acceptable economic return of 11% even with the
substantially higher investment. An amending agreement to Loan 767-HO was
signed on July 30, 1975.
3.09      The progress of the contractor was beset with delays from an early
stage because he ran into several problems in the off-shore work on the wharf
construction. The new, self-elevating pontoon, on which a piling rig was
mounted, developed teething troubles which delayed the start of the piling
work. The pontoon later suffered accidental damage, which held up the pile
driving for two and a half months. After about half the piles had been
driven, the work was again slowed down because of high resistance encountered.
Investigations by the consultants showed that the difficulty was caused by the
unexpected presence of a layer, about 1/2 to I m thick, of compact volcanic
ash which was highly resistant to the impact of a pile. The soil investiga-
tions carried out prior to final engineering had not revealed this unusual
stratum because the composition of the ash layer was said to be such that it
could be easily disintegrated and penetrated by a boring tool. Fortunately,
only the southernmost third of the pier was affected by the ash layer so that
the contractor was able to avert complete stoppage of work. The affected part
of the wharf was redesigned as a structure carried on end-bearing piles of
concrete , but, in the portion close to the berthing face, the concrete piles
were replaced by heavy tubular steel piles. The late delivery of the tubular
piles further added to the delay. Completion of the works envisaged under
Loan 767-HO (i.e., excluding the extension of wharf and sugar handling facil-
ities contracted later as part of the project financed under Loans 1395-T-HO,
1396-HO and 696-HO) was essentially achieved in October 1978, about one year
after the end of the contract period. Most of the delay was covered by
extensions certified by the consultants from time to time.
(ii) Revisions
3.10      Before starting work on final engineering, the consultants recommended
a revision of the wharf layout as envisaged at appraisal. In their view, the
layout proposed in the original feasibility study was preferable to that of
the appraisal report for the reasons that (a) adequate depths (for 7 m draft
vessels) would be available without requiring dredging; (b) the wharf would
have sufficient width for efficient handling of cargo on both sides; and
(c) transit storage would be provided on the wharf, making it possible to



- 6 -
reduce on-shore storage which would be costly because of the poor soil condi-
tions. After discussing the pros and cons of the consultants' proposal at a
meeting in the Bank with ENP and the consultants, it was agreed that the
basic concept of the appraisal report layout, viz., locating the transit
shed and storage on shore and leaving the wharf unobstructed, was the right
one. It was agreed, however, that the width of the wharf and approach bridge
had to be larger to facilitate handling of extra long bundles of lumber and
the turning of trucks and trailers. Thus, an open pier 140 m x 50 m with a
15 m wide approach bridge was agreed upon and this adjustment was not expected
to result in any significant increase in the cost of the wharf. It was
understood that the width of the pier was tentative and would be revised
after a review of the operational requirements. As a result of such review,
it was decided later to reduce the width to 37.5 m.
3.11      Instead of a single transit shed as envisaged at appraisal, three
separate sheds for general cargo, cotton and lumber have been provided for
operational and security considerations.
3.12      Since most of the traffic to the port would be using the Pan American
highway, the access road to the port has been connected to that highway instead
of the town of San Lorenzo.
3.13      In view of the substantial increases in project cost, the procure-
ment of equipment which had not been ordered was deleted from the items to
be financed under Loan 767-HO when the supplemental loan of US$3.0 million
was made; these items were later financed under the following loan for the
third port project.
3.14      Following the approval of the Third Port Project (Loans 1395-T-HO,
1396-HO and Credit 696-HO), major additions were made to the scope of the
works at San Lorenzo, including (a) extension of the pier to the north by
145 m, (b) provision of a sugar shed and molasses tanks with pumping system
and (c) deepening of the access channel and turning basin to 28 feet. The
time and cost implications of these additions have not been taken into account
in the foregoing observations since they form part of another project.
However, they have been taken into account in the economic reevaluation
(Chapter VII).
(iii) Cost
3.15      The civil works at San Lorenzo, as envisaged in Loan 767-HO, were
estimated at appraisal to cost US$3.14 million (including contingencies),
while the cost as executed (excluding the items included in the Third Port
Project) amounted to US$12.39 million, an increase of 295%. Similarly, the
cost of engineering services went up from an estimated US$0.3 million to an
actual US$1.8 million. The most important factor contributing to this very
substantial increase was the rapid rise in port construction costs from 1973
to 1975. The delayed decision to finally put the port at San Lorenzo (instead
of Amapala) resulted in bids being received only in January 1975. The bid
results were consistent with the experience in two other Bank-financed port
projects in Latin America which were appraised in 1971-1972 but were taken up
for execution in 1975. In Nicaragua (Second Corinto Port Project), the increase
in cost was 295%, while in Brazil (Santos Port Project), the cost went up by



- 7 -
280%. On the other hand, at Puerto Cortes where the bids had been received
early in 1973, the cost compared reasonably well with the appraisal estimates.
The other factor to which a part of the cost increase must be attributed is
the unexpected presence of volcanic ash, which necessitated a change in the
design of the wharf.
3.16      The increase in the cost of engineering services was proportionately
even greater than that of the works. Lengthening of the construction period
by a year, the necessity for additional investigations and design effort
because of unforeseen soil conditions and an unfavorable variation in the
exchange rate of the lempira vis-a-vis the Dutch guilder were the main reasons
for this increase.
D.   Reporting
3.17      The reporting requirements were understood well and were, on the
whole, met satisfactorily by the Borrower, although there were delays in the
submission of the reports because of administrative difficulties.
E.   Procurement
3.18      The borrower had no difficulty in following the Bank's procurement
guidelines. In the case of the procurement of a tugboat, which was required
urgently, ENP requested and obtained Bank approval to purchase a used tug.
F.   Disbursements
3.19      Because of the delay in the startup of the project, the disburse-
ments were much slower than had been expected at appraisal. There were no
major delays in the processing of withdrawal applications, but, during the
initial stage of the civil works contract for Puerto Cortes, some delays
occurred because the Borrower asked for reimbursement of 100% of the foreign
cost whereas, under the Loan Agreement, he was entitled to only 57% of the
total cost. The problem was resolved quickly when the discrepancy was pointed
out and corrected.
3.20      As a remedy for delayed payments, the Borrower has suggested in its
draft PCR that the Bank should consider establishing a revolving fund to be
placed at the disposal of the Borrower and recouped from time to time as
project expenses are incurred. Such an arrangement would amount to making
the loan funds available on an advance rather than on a reimbursible basis
and might, therefore, be unacceptable. In addition, the monitoring of the
revolving fund would be more complicated and also possibly more expensive
to administer. Nevertheless, some system for improving disbursement procedures
should be sought in order to reduce the borrower's working capital needs,
which can be substantial.



-8-
G.   Performance of the Borrower
3.21      The Borrower's performance with regard to the implementation of the
project was consistently good. During the execution period, the management
of ENP was changed three times with each change in Government. Fortunately,
all the managements attached high priority to the handling of administrative
matters relating to the project. They were all receptive to the suggestions
of the consultants and the Bank and were sincere in their efforts to comply
with the Bank's guidelines and requirements. They maintained good relations
with the consultants and contractors. Despite the significant increase in the
cost of the project, the Borrower was able to provide the counterpart financing
without assistance from the Government.
3.22      The Borrower was late in complying with the covenant for reducing
the free time for the storage of import cargo to 10 days. The delay, however,
did not materially affect the operations at Puerto Cortes, which did not
experience any problems due to uncleared cargo during the intervening period.
IV. TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS
A.   Traffic
(i) Puerto Cortes
4.01      For the appraisal of the project at Puerto Cortes, tonnage was
forecast for the ten-year period 1971-1980. Total tonnage (exports plus
imports and excluding petroleum and petroleum products which are handled at
Texaco's private pier to the west of the main Government wharf) was forecast
to increase from a total of 877,000 tons in 1970 to 1.68 million tons in 1980,
an average annual rate of increase of about 9.1%. Actual traffic, excluding
petroleum and petroleum products in 1979, the last full year for which actual
traffic data are available, reached 1.6 million tons, which, through extra-
polation, is about the total that was forecast. During the intermediate years,
traffic never fell below about 90% of the forecast except during 1975 and
1976, when it remained relatively constant. Thus, the overall total projec-
tions of cargo have largely materialized. With respect to individual commo-
dities, the forecasts were considerably less accurate. Banana, lumber and,
to a lesser extent, mineral (zinc and lead) exports grew much slower than
expected while coffee and other dry cargo exports, such as cement, and such
imports as fertilizers, chemical products and iron and steel substantially
exceeded the forecast. The serious shortfall in banana traffic at Puerto
Cortes (about 50% of the forecast in 1979) is explained by the fact that
Standard Fruit Company decided to divert all its banana traffic from Puerto
Cortes to Puerto La Ceiba. 1/ In the case of lumber traffic (about 65% of
1/ This decision was initially made following the 1974 hurricane.



the forecast in 1979,) national production generally declined as the struc-
ture of the industry changed from private to mainly public ownership. Petro-
leum traffic, which is not included in the above figures, fell substantially
below the forecast (about 48%), essentially because of Texaco's decision,
based on t£nker rates and proximity to markets, to produce at other regional
locations and bring in substantially less crude to its refinery at Puerto
Cortes. In general, it is difficult to see how these developments could have
been foreseen with more commodity analysis than was actually carried out.
Fortunately, the unforeseen increases in traffic were sufficient to offset the
shortfalls. A comparison of the appraisal estimates with actual results is
shown in Table 4.
(ii) San Lorenzo
4.02      The appraisal mission forecast that both San Lorenzo and Amapala
would be used in the future. However, early in 1980, operations at Amapala
were totally discontinued and San Lorenzo became the only significant port
installation on the Pacific coast. Traffic for both ports was forecast to
increase from a total of 177,000 tons in 1970 to 372,000 tons in 1980, an
average annual rate of increase of 4.7%. Actual traffic at San Lorenzo and
Amapala in 1979, the first year of operations at San Lorenzo, reached only
159,00 tons. Thus, traffic not only fell significantly short of the forecast,
but it has also been decreasing slightly over the last decade despite the
beginning of sugar and molasses traffic in 1979, a development which was
unforeseen at the time of appraisal. The principal causes of this shortfall
are much fewer lumber and cotton exports than expected and the attainment of
less than half the forecast of general cargo imports. The problem does not
appear to have been a failure to predict accurately the split in traffic
between the Pacific and Caribbean ports, which quite rightly preoccupied the
appraisal team, but, rather, to forecast the national production and its
effect on exports and the propensity to import. A comparison of the appraisal
estimates with actual results is shown in Table 5.
B.   Operation
4.03      Berth occupancy at Cortes decreased, as expected, with the completion
of the project (Table 3). Cargo handling productivity in loading and unload-
ing ships at Puerto Cortes is about 39% lower for bananas and about 17% higher
on average for other types of cargo than was forecast at appraisal time. A
comparison of the appraisal forecasts and actual productivity is given on the
following page.



- 10 -
Tons/day/ship at Puerto Cortes
Actual         Appraisal           Actual
(1970)         Estimate            (1978)
(1971)
Solid Grains                    600              900             1,050
General Cargo                   288              378               466
Lumber                          384              432               550
Banana a/                     1,200            1,800             1,100
Containerized Cargo               -                -             2,091
a/ At the time of appraisal, the United Fruit Company was experimenting
with banana containerization; however, no estimate was made of the
productivity of such operations. It is not clear whether the appraisal
estimate of productivity for handling banana cargo cited above was based
on some containerization. The actual figure of 1,100 tons refers to
non-containerized bananas.
4.04      The provision of the new wharf at Puerto Cortes enabled the port to
respond quickly to its growing container traffic and thus become the first
full-fledged container port of Central America. The project was designed to
allow for this possible development although it was not clearly foreseen at
the time of appraisal.
4.05      Cargo handling productivity per ship day at the new wharf at
San Lorenzo, based on the first quarter's experience in 1980, was 368 tons for
general cargo and 496 tons for lumber and for cotton. Although these figures
compare favorably with the appraisal estimates for Puerto Cortes, they fall
short of the appraisal estimates for San Lorenzo, which were 480 tons for
general oargo, 567 tons for lumber and 480 tons for cotton. The reason for
the appraisal mission's estimate of higher rates of productivity at San Lorenzo
than at Cortes is not clear. While the appraisal mission had foreseen contin-
uation of some lighterage operations between Amapala and San Lorenzo, recently
these operations were totally discontinued after the deeper approach channel
made it possible for seagoing ships to berth alongside the new wharf at
San Lorenzo.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A.   Introduction
5.01      ENP had been a profitable institution since its establishment in 1966
and was in a strong financial position at the time of appraisal. Operating
profit (derived only at Puerto Cortes) had been steadily increasing to
L 3.9 million by 1970; total debt was less than L 10 million and, therefore,
interest expenses were low (less than L 400,000), and did not affect total
income significantly.



- 11 -
5.02      Overall financial performance has been satisfactory.     Revenues and
expenditures of ENP have grown rapidly in both nominal and real terms; the
growth in net operating revenues has been, however, less rapid, and net
income declined slightly because of increased interest expense. The size of
the investment program carried out by ENP was so large (fixed assets increased
nearly tenfold from L 15.7 million to L 149.5 million) that substantial
borrowings had to be incurred, and, by 1979, the resulting financial burden
was placing a strain on the institution.
B.   Revenues and Expenses
5.03      ENP's revenues grew by 340%, from L 6.5 million to L 29.0 million,
between 1970 and 1979; this represented a growth rate of 18% p.a. in nominal
terms and over 10% in real terms (Table 6). Operating expenses grew more
rapidly and increased by 660%, from L 2.7 million to L 20.5 million, in the
same period. The rate of growth in these expenses was 25% in nominal terms
and about 17% in real terms. Thus, while net operating revenue increased
substantially from L 3.9 million to L 8.6 million, the rate of growth was a
relatively moderate 9% in nominal terms and about 2% in real terms.
5.04      Both revenues and expenses increased much more rapidly than forecast
at appraisal and were, by 1978, 76% and 120% higher than the corresponding
appraisal estimates. This large discrepancy between the appraisal estimates
and the actual figures partly reflects the unforeseen expansion in ENP's
sphere of responsibilities; the appraisal projections described an institution
which was expected to be responsible for operating only the two project ports,
whereas, in fact, by the end of the period, ENP was responsible for these
ports plus ports at La Ceiba and Tela, as well as a substantial (especially
in terms of cost) free zone facility adjacent to the Port of Cortes.
5.05      The addition of these extra responsibilities to ENP has had a rela-
tively minor effect on revenues, however; the project ports generated over
90% of total revenues in 1979 (with Cortes contributing over 90% of this total)
and, thus, the revenues at these ports substantially exceeded the appraisal
estimates (Table 7). The difference has occurred because tariffs at Cortes
have increased much more rapidly than was foreseen; revenues were L 13.5 per
ton of dry cargo in 1978, compared with L 7.5 per ton in 1970 (a figure which
is roughly equal in real terms), and a forecast of L 6.8 per ton for 1978.
Conversely, actual unit revenues of L 5.00 per ton at San Lorenzo were slightly
lower than the forecast figure of L 6.00 per ton.
5.06      Operating costs were substantially affected by the expansion of
ENP's responsibilities; 66% of these costs were incurred at the project ports
in 1978, and total costs at these locations were L 3.4 million, 52% higher
than the appraisal projections. Costs were higher because of depreciation,
which was L 1 million (71%) higher, and administrative costs, which increased
at a rapid rate with the expansion of ENP's responsibilities. The increase in
the number of personnel was, in fact, moderate in that ENP had 517 employees
at the time of appraisal and 785 in 1978; average payments per employee,
however, increased rapidly from L 2,200 per year to L 7,600 per year in the
same period. By way of comparison, average salaries for Government employees



- 12 -
were about the same in the early seventies, but only increased to about
L 4,400 by 1978; the higher rate of growth in ENP salaries reflects the fact
that ENP's management was autonomous and paid salaries which it considered
were necessary to match the private sector.
C.   Financial Goals
5.07      The principal financial goal established for ENP at appraisal
was the achievement of an 8% rate of return on net revalued fixed assets; in
fact, the rates of return forecast to be achieved in the appraisal were over
20% during project execution, dropping to 12% on completion of the Puerto
Cortes works in 1975 and then steadily increasing to 18% by 1978. The apprai-
sal estimate indicated that these rates of return would be achieved with the
then existing tariff schedule and that large cash surpluses would thereafter
be generated; in fact, the implication of this financial goal seemed to be
toward a downward revision of tariffs in the future. With the benefit of
hindsight, this analysis probably underestimated the extent to which these
profits would be passed on to employees demanding more rapid salary increases,
a fact which, in combination with the expansion of ENP's sphere of responsibi-
lities, meant that, while the 8% net rate of return target has been achieved,
this has been possible only because tariffs have been increased in the interim
period.
D.   Balance Sheet
5.08      The most dramatic difference between the financial projections and
the actual results is shown in the balance sheet (Table 8). Total assets
(which had been revalued just prior to commencement of the project) were
projected to increase by 140% to L 63 million by 1978, but actually increased
by 280% to L 99 million in this period and increased by a further 35% in 1979.
More important, the appraisal financial projections indicated that the major
increase would be in assets as a result of the substantial cash surpluses
forecast to be generated; fixed assets were only forecast to increase from
L 15.7 million to L 31.2 million, but actually increased to L 106.5 million,
while working capital was forecast to increase by over L 20 million, but
actually decreased to a negative L 15 million. Part of the large difference
between the two figures arises from cost increases associated with the project,
but the main cause has been the other investments carried out by ENP during
the period, including investments at Castilla (financed under a third Bank
loan in 1976) and investments in container facilities at Cortes and in a free
zone facility at Cortes. The negative working capital position at the end of
the period showed the heavy financial strain that ENP was under as a result
of this investment program; had its investments been restricted merely to the
project, it would have been in a good position.
5.09      The additional investments carried out by ENP have been reviewed
and accepted by the Bank under the conditions of Section 5.08 of the Loan
Agreement as being justified economically; however, the combined effect of
doing so many projects at once has placed a temporary strain on the institu-
tion which will not be relieved until these various new facilities become
fully operational and generate sufficient revenues to cover expenses and debt
service commitments. In the interim, ENP has had to finance these investments
through substantial increases in borrowing (long-term debt increased from
L 9.2 million to L 97.5 million), reductions in working capital and cash
reserves generated from the profitable operation of the Port of Cortes.



- 13 -
5.10      Thus, from a financial viewpoint, ENP changed dramatically during
the period and has little resemblance to the forecast situation. In spite of
this fact, the appraisal projections were very useful in that they did provide
basic financial goals for ENP (the 8% rate of return) which formed an appro-
priate basis for requesting ENP to increase tariffs in 1976.
5.11      The deterioration in ENP's financial position, in spite of its
good annual profitability, raises the question of whether the Bank should
have encouraged ENP and/or the Government to postpone some of the investments
that were made or reduce the use of debt for such investments. The Bank has
taken the position that the investments were highly justified and could be
accommodated within ENP's cash flow with careful planning and management. ENP
is meeting its obligations and is expected to return to a healthy cash position
once the ongoing projects are completed and become operational.
E.   Financial Covenants
5.12      Typical financial covenants were included in the Loan Agreement for
the project, and ENP has essentially complied with them in full; in more
detail, the status of compliance is as follows:
(a) Financial Recordkeeping (Section 5.01)
ENP has consistently kept good financial records which have
provided key financial data accurately and in a timely manner.
The standard of the financial procedures has even improved in
spite of the increase in the workload of the staff. Recent
improvements have included introduction of cost center accounting
and detailed separation of accounts by location and between
administration and operations at Cortes.
(b) External Audits (Section 5.02)
ENP has had its acounts audited satisfactorily by the local
branch of a major international accounting firm each year.
These audits have generally been available within the four-
month time frame allowed under this covenant. ENP has also
provided the Bank with copies of the "management letter"
prepared by the auditors.
(c) Negative Lien (Section 5.03)
ENP has not provided a lien or any assets as security for any
debt.
(d) Rate of Return (Section 5.04)
ENP has continually complied with the 8% rate of return required
under this covenant and revalued its assets during 1976 in order
to update the basis for this calculation.



- 14 -
(e) Revision of Schedule of Charges (Section 5.05)
The borrower has regularly consulted with the Bank prior to the
revision of charges; the implied objective of this covenant at
the time of appraisal appeared to be the downward revision of
tariffs, but, because of cost increases, it has been used to press
for tariff increases. The main tariff issue at the current time
relates to tariffs for the project port at San Lorenzo. Under
the current schedule, this port is not profitable, and, although
achievement of a profit at this particular port was not required
under the Loan Agreement, it is a general objective in such cases.
ENP is currently preparing proposals for the revision of charges
at San Lorenzo for review by the Bank in the next month or so;
this schedule should ensure the profitability of the port once
traffic volumes reach levels closer to the appraisal estimates.
(f) Debt Limitation (Section 5.06)
ENP has continually had to incur additional borrowings, beyond
the limits described under this covenant, in order to finance the
rapid expansion of its assets. These borrowings have, however,
been discussed with the Bank, and, on occasion, the Bank has
convinced ENP to defer or limit borrowing and the related invest-
ments and/or increase tariffs in effect to improve the projected
financial position. At the same time, ENP vigorously carried
out its investment program as long as reasonable financial
projections indicated that the debt service could be accommodated
within the forecast cash flow. In fact, cash flow management has
been reviewed extensively in recent years during supervision of
this project and the followup project. It has been found that
ENP's commitment to producing annual long term financial projections
has been the best mechanism for reviewing and establishing borrowing
limits, rather than the restrictions of this covenant. Recent loans
have focused on use of debt limitation targets based on agreed cash
flow projections for the institution, and it is felt that these are
a better mechanism for such covenants because they have the advantage
of encouraging the Borrower to institutionalizing long term financial
forecasting as a planning and decision-making tool. Obviously this
approach would not work if the institution did not take such finan-
cial projections seriously.
(g) Responsibility for Other Ports (Section 5.07)
ENP did assume responsibility for administering and operating the
other ports in Honduras; this has been an appropriate action in
view of the effective institution that has been developed and,
thus, ensures good coordination among the various ports.
(h) Limitation of Capital Expenditures (Section 5.08)
ENP has generally spent more than US$250,000 each year on items
other than those included in the project, but has consulted the
Bank before any such expenditures were made.



- 15 -
(i)  Free Storage Limitation (Section 5.09)
ENP has reduced the free storage period to the Bank's target of 10
days in 1979, much later than January 1, 1974, the date in the Loan
Agreement.
(j)  Payment of Outstanding Dues by Government Agencies (Section 3.04
of the Guarantee Agreement)
This covenant required ENP to be paid for its services to public
agencies; in fact, ENP staff reports that "such payments have been a
continued problem in view of the Government's feelings that ENP's
profitability has been such that it should not expect to be paid
by the relatively poor public agencies." It has also argued that it
may have outstanding claims against ENP which would counterbalance
these outstanding dues. With the increased difficulty of ENP's
financial position in the last year, the Bank has pressed for
resolution of this issue, and agreement is now being reached on the
extent and nature of any such obligations.
F.   Project Financing
5.13      Table 9 summarizes a comparison between actual and projected project
financing; it can be seen that the substantial increases in costs of the
project were mostly financed by ENP, i.e., its total contribution to the
project increased from US$3.8 million equivalent to US$10.9 million equivalent
while the Bank's contribution increased from US$6.0 million to US$9.0 million.
The Bank's share of the total decreased from 61% to 45% but was higher than the
30% it would have been without the supplemental loan.
5.14      In reviewing ENP's share, it has been assumed that the other
borrowing made by ENP during the period was associated with non-project
items executed; in fact, substantial borrowings were made, and it could be
argued that, at the margin, some of these were used to complete the project;
the table does not indicate this assumption, however, because, if the addi-
tional investments had not been made, such borrowings would not have been
needed.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.01      The performance and development of ENP during the implementation of
this project is an excellent example of successful realization of the Bank's
institution building within the public sector. ENP, during the 1970s, became
a well run, appropriately staffed, operationally efficient and relatively
autonomous enterprise with responsibility for all port subsector facilities.
This result generally exceeds the appraisal expectations, although it may well
reflect the fact that ENP has had more time to improve than was envisaged.
6.02      It is interesting to note that the project's institutional
objectives were relatively modest and that no attempt was made to address
sectoral issues; in fact, the main institutional clause in the Loan Agreement
requires Bank consultation prior to the expansion of the jurisdiction of ENP.



- 16 -
The main institutional achievement has been the successful integration of
all port-related facilities in Honduras under one management, thus unifying
a previously fragmented operating arrangement.
6.03      There is no single reason which is evident for this success, but
some contributing factors seem apparent:
(a) The goal of institutional improvement was approached gradually and
when an institution was formed in 1965 to implement the first Bank
port project in Honduras, this institution was restricted to the one
port associated with the project. There was a focus on doing
things well in one location and not immediately integrating all
port facilities at that time.
(b) The basic management, financial and organizational systems
implemented at Puerto Cortes under the first loan seem to have
been very well designed and implemented; this greatly improved
the quality of ENP at this location, enhanced the respectability
of the institution and led to a desire within the Government
to incorporate the other ports within ENP.
(c) The quality of senior management has been very high. ENP's
profitable position, combined with its autonomous status, has
enabled it to hire (with adequate salaries) competent staff.
6.04     A number of specific areas in which improvements were made were:
(a) Planning: The planning staff was developed and given responsibility
for data collection, traffic forecasting and facilities planning, as
well as project evaluation.
(b) Financial Procedures: The quality and timeliness of financial
reporting was expanded substantially because of the introduc-
tion of computerized procedures, monthly and quarterly perfor-
mance reviews and a detailed cost accounting system providing
cost data for the major operating cost centers.
(c) Management Procedures: With the expansion of ENP, the General
Manager's responsibilities expanded considerably from his
original role of managing only the port of Cortes. The
organization was modified to pass greater responsibility to
the operating units so that the General Manager could focus on
the management and development of the port subsector as a whole.
6.05      It is worth mentioning that most of these improvements came without
intervention by outside consultant teams; ENP had a basic system that could
work effectively to meet the new needs as they arose, and the management
hired high quality local staff by offering adequate salaries. In the few
cases in which consultants have been used, they have tended to be individuals
hired for short periods of time to do specific tasks related, for example, to
cost accounting systems, and their work has been integrated into the manage-
ment system with good results.



- 17 -
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
A.   Puerto Cortes
7.01      The appraisal mission's estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR)
on the project at Puerto Cortes was 40%, excluding the tugboat, for which the
ERR was estimated separately at 13%. The benefits which were taken into
account include savings in ships' waiting and service time because of faster
cargo handling at the wharf, the avoidance of additional transport costs
associated with the diversion of cargo to other ports, lower cargo handling
costs, and, for the tugboat, avoided wharf damage associated with docking and
undocking operations.
7.02      Replicating the cost and benefit calculations in the appraisal report
is difficult because the economic capital costs of the project, after adjust-
ment for transfer payments, are not shown, nor is their distribution over the
implementation period. In addition, the estimated economic life of the project
is not specified, although it is stated that the project is designed to provide
"adequate" facilities at Puerto Cortes to handle traffic projected until about
1978. Furthermore, the basis for quantifying the benefits of lower cargo
handling costs and, in the case of the tugboat, of avoided wharf damage, is
not given. Moreover, the appraisal analysis assumed tht all of the savings
in ship's waiting and service time would be passed on to Honduras in the form
of higher port charges and avoided surcharges on freight. Evidence suggests
that, while port charges have increased significantly since the project was
completed, this assumption was not entirely correct.
7.03      To calculate the revised economic rate of return (RERR), all of the
preceding matters had to be clarified. It was estimated that taxes represent
about 5% of the total capital costs. This amount was subtracted from the
actually observed financial costs to obtain the economic costs. A further
adjustment was made to express all costs in constant prices to eliminate the
effects of inflation. 1/ The distribution of these costs over the actual
implementation period is based on actual expenditures. The economic life of
the project (excluding the tug) was assumed to be 20 years, and project
benefits were held constant from that year in which major additional capacity
would be required to accommodate additional traffic. That year was estimated
to be 1983, at which time the average berth occupancy at the Government wharfs
is expected to reach 90%. The benefits from lower cargo handling costs were
simply not considered in the revised analysis on the ground that the principle
saving in this case is labor and, if appropriately shadow priced, would not be
significant. More realistically, only 50%, instead of 100%, of the savings in
ships' total turn-around time were assumed to accrue to Honduras and, therefore,
were counted as benefits. The analysis of the tug is discussed separately in
paragraph 7.08.
7.04      Another matter which needs clarification is the estimate of ships'
waiting time. The appraisal report mentions that a mathematical model
developed in the Bank was used for this purpose. Presumably, this model was
1/   Based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI); Economic Report No. 1865-HO,
January 10, 1978.



- 18 -
the standard one based on queuing theory, in which it is assumed that ships
arrive with a Poisson distribution and that the service times of ships follow
an exponential distribution. This model was used in the revised analysis to
estimate ships' waiting time for the "without project" case and for the "with
project" case, over the remaining future life of the the project. Actual
ships' waiting time was used for the "with project" case from the time of
completion (1975) through 1979.
7.05      At the time of appraisal, traffic was forecast only through 1980.
For the purpose of the revised analysis, actual traffic figures were used
for the period from completion (1975) through 1979 (Table 4), and the forecast
for the period 1980-1995 was based on a consultants' report 1/, which contains
the most reliable available information, adjusted only in the case of lumber,
where present developments suggest a slower growth. The forecast follows:
Traffic Forecasts - Puerto Cortes
(000 Metric Tons)
1980     1985     1990      1995
Exports a/
Banana                                    522      575       635      701
Lumber b/                                 240      303       405      470
Mineral                                   125       184      235      300
Sugar and Molasses                         36       58        68       78
Coffee                                     49       63        80      102
Cement                                    120       153      195      249
Other Dry Cargo                            67       81        97      116
Subtotal                             1,159    1,417     1,715    2,016
Imports a/
Wheat                                      53        64       78       95
Machinery and Transport Equipment          27        38       53       75
Chemical Products and Fertilizers          60        83      117      166
Other Dry Cargo                           228       291      373      480
Subtotal                               368      476      621       816
TOTAL                                1,527    1,893     2,336    2,832
a/   Excludes petroleum and petroleum products.
b/   Lumber exports are expected to be five years behind the TAMS forecast,
which is consistent with present experience.
1/   Tippets-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton (TAMS), Atlantic Coast Ports of Honduras,
November 1975.



- 19 -
7.06      Based on all the above-mentioned assumptions and on the available
new information on costs, implementation, traffic and cargo handling produc-
tivity, the RERR for the project at Puerto Cortes (excluding the tug) is
estimated at 27%. The revised first year economic rate of return (RFYERR) is
estimated at 5.0%, which indicates that postponement would have been justified.
However, the RFYERR rises very steeply to 28% with only a two-year postponement.
This situation is explained by the fact that, between 1974 and 1976 (i.e.,
from the time just before project completion to the time just after), traffic,
excluding petroleum, remained fairly constant and then rose very sharply
in 1977. Even had this temporary lull in traffic been foreseen at appraisa1
time, it would have been difficult to justify postponement for such a short
period, given the various risks that would have been entailed. In retrospect,
the investment decision and timing appear to have been well justified.
7.07      The analysis of the tugboat raises certain problems.     Specifically,
the derivation of the annual savings in accident or damage costs associated
with the docking and undocking of ships, estimated at US$60,000 a year, is
not given. To derive this figure, one would need information on the frequency
of accidents without the tug as a function of the level of operations, the
average cost per accident, and the amount of work to be performed by the tug.
Limited time has not permitted a detailed investigation of the first two deter-
minants. If the implied values in the appraisal mission's estimates of total
savings are accepted, the problem reduces to the amount of work performed
by the tug. Since traffic at Puerto Cortes has more or less coincided with
the appraisal forecast (para 4.01), it can be reasonably assumed that the
amount of work which the tug has performed is already fairly close to the
implied appraisal estimates. In view of the foregoing, and the fact that the
appraisal cost estimates for the tug came fairly close to the actual cost,
the RERR at this time is estimated to be the same as the appraisal estimate
of 13%.
B.   San Lorenzo
7.08      The appraisal mission's estimate of the ERR for the project at
San Lorenzo was 33%. The benefits which were taken into account include lower
cargo handling costs resulting from the substitution of fixed berthing for
lighterage operations, reduced ships' service time and reductions in damage
to cargo. In addition, even with the new port at San Lorenzo, the appraisal
mission estimated that the lighterage operation between Amapala and San Lorenzo
would continue for ships with drafts greater than the depth of the access
channel. However, later, during implementation, it was agreed to deepen the
access channel to permit larger ships to enter the new port at San Lorenzo.
In early 1980, operations at Amapala were totally discontinued. All of the
traffic is now handled at the new port of San Lorenzo.
7.09      The analysis is further complicated by the fact that the scope of
the project, agreed during appraisal, was expanded before the project was
completed in 1979 and the port became operational. First it was decided not
to add one end of the "T" shaped wharf (effectively eliminating two berths)
and to enlarge the width of the other end. During the Bank's Third Port
Project (1347b-HO), in March 1977 before the project at San Lorenzo was com-
pleted, the end of the pier, which was previously removed, was added on again



- 20 -
along with ancillary facilities including a sugar storage shed, two molasses
tanks and some equipment. The present revised economic analysis includes,
in the economic costs of the project, the full "T" shaped wharf, the dredging
of the access channel and the ancillary facilities and equipment on the
grounds that (a) all these additions were made during the implementation
period, (b) all the facilities became operational at the same time when the
port opened and (c) it would not be meaningful to analyze the "with project"
case as a hypothetical situation in which it would be assumed that the port
had opened with only some part of the capacity it actually had.
7.10      At appraisal time, traffic was forecast only through 1980 (Table 5).
The revised analysis uses the actual traffic figures at San Lorenzo for the
first year of operations (1979) and a forecast for 1985, based on the appraisal
of the Third Port Project, which admittedly is on the optimistic side, given
the past trend. 1/ Although the past trend would suggest a substantial
downward modification to the forecast, recently published quarterly data for
1980 suggest that traffic is beginning to pick up. After 1985, total tonnage
(exports and imports) at San Lorenzo is assumed to grow at the average annual
long term rate of 3.5%. The forecast follows:
Traffic Forecasts - San Lorenzo
(000 metric tons)
Exports                               Imports
Fertilizer Machinery
and          and
Molasses   Sugar  Lumber  Other     Chemicals   Equipment   Other  Total
1985          45       69     100      15         16           8       21      274
1990                                    a/                                     322
2000                                                                           435
a/   The commodity composition of the totals was not forecast for the later
years.
7.11      The new traffic projections, the revised split of traffic between
Amapala and San Lorenzo with the total discontinuance of lighterage through
Amapala and all operations at San Lorenzo from 1980 onward, the actual cargo
handling rates for the "with project" case and the actual capital cost of the
project distributed over the implementation period and adjusted for inflation,
were used to calculate the RERR. The types of benefits taken into account
were the same as those estimated at appraisal time (para 7.09). The project
was assumed to have a 20-year economic life. On this basis, the RERR is 8.0%.
The low RERR is not surprising in view of the fact that the project was almost
1/   Honduras:   Staff Project Report No. 1347b-HO, Third Port Project,
March 14, 1977.



- 21 -
three-and-a-half times more expensive than originally estimated, even after
discounting for inflation, and that traffic was less than half what was
forecast. While the original intention was to provide a low cost port faci-
lity on the Pacific Coast, the final project, in the course of implementation,
evolved into something much greater. The project, which ultimately was
completed, should have been postponed, as indicated by the results from the
first year rate of return analysis, which follow. Consequently, the unplanned
delay or increase in the period of project implementation from three to eight
years actually resulted in a higher, albeit low, rate of return for the
project than would have been the case had the project been completed sooner,
according to the appraisal schedule. Nevertheless, the delay was not long
enough. The RFYERR is 6.0% and reaches 11% only in 1989, indicating that the
project should have been postponed for at least another ten years while the
lighterage operation continued.
VIII. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
8.01      The Draft Comp]etion Report prepared by the Borrower describes the
Bank as having played an extremely useful role in providing helpful financial
and technical advice. The Borrower felt that, in particular, the Bank's
assistance in the preparation of terms of reference and conduct of studies was
very valuable and that the Bank showed itself to be flexible and adaptable to
changing circumstances. The Borrower's criticism was directed at what it
regards as the Bank's slow disbursement procedures.
8.02      In retrospect, it does appear that the Bank played an important role
in the successful completion of the project facilities through its careful
appraisal and frequent supervision work. In addition, the Bank's support of
the project has extended and broadened the institutional achievements realized
under the First Port Project.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01      The construction of the new wharf (designed for future installation
of a container crane) at Puerto Cortes was very timely since its availability
enabled ENP to equip the port quickly to meet the growing demand.
9.02      In the case of San Lorenzo, the large increases in costs and lower
levels of traffic have caused the investment at San Lorenzo to yield a less
than acceptable economic return. In retrospect, the Bank's reanalysis of the
economic evaluation of the San Lorenzo component of the project has been
proven to be unduly optimistic; it would appear that the investment should
have been deferred and the lighterage operation continued for several more
years.



- 22 -
9.03      The Borrower's performance regarding the administration of the
project, management of finances and achievement of the targeted financial
rate of return has been satisfactory.
9.04      The Bank should make an attempt to speed up disbursement procedures
or otherwise to reduce the working capital difficulties that can be experienced
by borrowers during project execution.
9.05      Provided the Borrower's financial management practices are suitable,
it would be more practical and advantageous to relate the debt limitation
covenant to cash flow projections rather than to operating surplus. Such a
covenant could be worded quite simply along the lines of:
"except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not incur any debt when a reasonable forecast (this
could be defined) of revenues and expenses shows that the
projected net revenues of the Borrower for each year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall not be less than
(say) 1.75 times the projected debt service requirements on
all debt of the Borrower."



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
1/
Actual and Expected   Project Implementation
PERCENT OF WORK
DATES OF                                      COMPLETED BY
PROJECT                                                     BID RECEIPT           CONTRACT AWARD            BEGINNING OF WORK       COMPLETION OF WORK                    COMPLETION
COMPONENT              PARTICULARS                      ACTUAL     EXPECTED     ACTUAL      EXPECTED      ACTUAL       EXPECTED    ACTUAL       EXPECTED      EXPECTED        DATE
Puerto Cortes         Civil Works Contract             Jan. 73    Nov. 71       Feb. 73     Dec. 71      March 73     Jan. 72     April 75     Dec. 74                70%
San Lorenzo           Civil Works Contract             Jan. 75    Nov. 71       Sept. 75    Dec. 71      Oct. 75      Jan. 72     Jan. 79      Dec. 74               NIL
(Henecan)
1/ At Appraisal (as estimated from Disbursement Schedule.
Source: ENP; Appraisal Report



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs
(US$ 000)
ACTUAL COST
ACTUAL COST                   APPRWISAL ESTIMATE OF COST      AS A PERCENTAGE OF
Contract                                     Appraisal      Contract
PROJECT COMPONENT        Local    Foreign    Total    Amount      Local     Foreign     Total    Estimate       Amount
A. Puerto Cortes
(i) Civil Works    1,043.0   3,800.0   4,843.0   4,428.1     2,t' 7.0  2,500.0    4,597.0       105          109
(ii) Equipment          18.5    369.2     387.7      369.2      119.0    774.0        893.0       43          105
(iii) Consultant
Services         333.1    142.8     475.9      410.0       84.0    326.0        410.0      116          116
Sub-Total      1,394.6  4,312.0   59706.6               T,T300.  36 T5,90. 3
B. San Lorenzo
(Henecan)
(i)  Civil Works    3,718.0  8,675.2  12,393.2    9,063.4    1,341.0  1,797.0      3,138.0      395          137
(ii)  Equipment        -         -         -         -           99.0    363.0        462.0       -            -
(iii)  Consultant
Services        540.0  1,260.0   1,800.0      300.0       60.0    240.0        300.0      600          600
Sub-total          4,258.0  9,935.2   14,193.2              1,500.0  2,400.0      3,900.0
Total              5,562.6 14,247.2   19,899.8              3,800.0   6,000.0     9,800.0 1/
1/  Appraisal estimate figures are inclusive of contingencies on civil works and equipment.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Efficiency Indicators - Puerto Cortes 1/
1972          1974           1976          1978
1. Cargo handled
Tons/ship hour at berth
Bulk Liquid Cargo                        425          406             262            302
Bulk Solid                                57           43              48             52
Bananas                                78          77               81            55
General Cargo                          14          22               14            29
Containers                             -            -               72           104
Ro-Ro                                  -            -               62            131
2.  Berth Utilization %                        99           80              57             45
3.  Tons handled/Meter of quay              1,242        1,017             703          1,195
(Berths 3, 4 & 5) 2/
4.  Average Cargo/Ship (tons)               1,557        1,690           1,543          1,679
5.  Ship Turnaround Time                     57.5         52.9            49.5           46.4
(hours/ship)
6.  Ships lime at berths                     33.3         30.3            39.8           27.7
(hours/ship)
7.  Waiting Time for Berth                   24.2         22.6             9.6            8.5
(hours/ship)
1/ Corresponding data for San Lorenzo not available.
2/ Berth 5 became operative in 1975.
Source: ENP



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Traffic - Puerto Cortes
Tons (000)
1972                     1974                  1976                   1978                   1979
Actual   ForecAst       Actual    Forecast     Actual    Forecast     Actual    Forecast      Actual    Forecast
Exports
Banana                               448.9      540.0       345.6       580.0        249.6     625.0       290.9      680.0        387.0     715.0
Lumber                               199.7      195.0       183.7       220.0        168.7     225.0       181.3       250.0       172.8     265.0
Minerals                               72.1      78.0        84.7        94.0         72.7     113.0        80.2       136.0       116.3     150.0
Coffee                                31.8       25.0        30.5        26.0         43.2      27.0        54.2        28.0        68.5      29.0
Other dry cargo                      142.2       72.0       104.0        81.0        177.8      90.0       231.1      102.0        309.5     111.0
TOTAL DRY CARGO                  894.7      910.0       748.5     1,001.0        712.0   1,080.0       837.7    1,196.0      1,054.1   1,270.0
Oil                                  216.9      410.0       200.3       460.0          6.2     525.0       -0-        575.0          0.5     613.0     a,
TOTAL                          1,111.6    1,320.0       948.8     1,461.0        718.2   1,605.0       837.7    1,771.0      1,054.6   1,883.0
Imports
Wheat                                 44.4       48.0        48.8        55.0         49.0      65.0        61.1        75.0        71.7      83.0
Machinery -transport
Equipment                             12.6       2^.0        13.7        27.0         14.5      31.0        23.5        35.0        22.1      37.0
Chemical products fertilizer          28.7       24.0        37.8        28.0        49.1       33.0        73.8       39.0         75.8      42.0
Other dry cargo                       96.1       90.0       176.8       105.0        217.7     121.0       373.7      139.0        377.6     149.0
TOTAL DRY CARGO                  181.8      185.0       277.1       215.0       330.3      250.0       532.1      288.0        547.2     311.0
Oil                                  662.7      810.0       653.6       900.0       448.5    1,000.0       482.3    1,100.0        554.0   1,150.0
TOTAL                           844.5     995.0        930.7     1,115.0       778.8    1,250.0     1,014.4    1,388.0      1,101.2   1,461.0
GRAND TOTAL (EXPORTS-IMPORTS)      1,956.1    2,315.0     1,879.5     2,576.0      1,497.    2,855.0     1,852.1    3,159.0      2,155.8   3.344.0   |>
TOTAL DRY CARGO TRAFFIC              1,076.5    1,095.0     1,025.6     1,216.0      1,042.3   1,330.0     1,369.8    1,484.0      1,601.3   1,581.0    m



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Traffic: Amapala - Henecan_-'
(000 tons)
1974                1976                1978                1979
Actual  Forecast    Actual  Forecast    Actual  Forecast    Actual  Forecast
Exports:
Lumber                     124.5      145      111.3      185       97.1     210        80.4     222
Cotton                       4.2        9        4.3       10       13.4      13         9.8      14
Cotton seed                  3.3        4        5.2       -         2.0      -           -       -
Molasses                      -         -         -        -          -       -          3.7      -
Sugar                         -         -         -        -          -       -         16.0      -
Other                        2.0       10        2.9       17        5.2      20         4.o      21
Total                    134.0      168      123.7      212      117.7     243       113.9     257
Imports
Total Cargo                 34.1       55       37.6       70       33.9      85        45.2      93
TOTAL (Exports and Imports)  168.1      223      161.3      282      151.6     328       159.1     350
a! Henecan began operations in 1979



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
ENP Actual and Projected Revenues and Expenses 1970 - 1979
(Figures in Thousand Lempiras)
1 9 7 0             19 7 2                   1 9 7 4                  19 7 6                   19 7 8             1 9 7 9
Actual      Forecast     Actual      Forecast     Actual      Forecast     Actual      Forecast     Actual        Actual
OPERATING REVENUE
Port Dues                            1,892.5      1,990.0     1,581.3      2,230.0     1,925.9      2,640.0     1,905.0      2,946.0     3,425.9       3,998.3
Dockage, anchorage and mooring         298.5        358.0       392.3        389.0       451.0        494.5       920.0        540.0     3,697.7       4,024.8
Wharfage                             2,129.6      2,070.0     1,991.6      2,326.0     2,538.0      3,432.0     4,429.8      4,120.6     5,837.3       6,970.2
Cargo-handling                       1,323.5      1,359.0       934.4      1,560.0     1,813.3      2,199.0     1,789.6      2,582.3     2,567.7       8,072.0
Warehousing                            743.9        890.0     1,105.1      1,000.0     2,811.6      1,211.0     2,089.5      1,380.5     4,521.6       3,549.8
Rental and other income                166.7        166.0       267.6        413.0       499.7        458.0       634.9        511.4     1.262.9       2,422.6
6,554.7      6,833.0     6,272.3      7,918.0    10,039.5     10,434.5    11,768.8     12,081.0    21,309.1      29,037.7
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wharves, docks and tugs                227.8        403.4       409.0        487.5       718.1        950.4       957.6        985.3     1,040.7       1,205.5
Cargo-handling                       1,156.6      1,541.1       976.5      1,717.4     1,622.6      2,439.0     1,843.1      2,755.1     3,453.8       4,973.7
Warehousing                            301.4        418.5       455.6        464.1       526.0        633.7       733.5        706.3       742.7       1,007 1
Superintendence & administration       748.2        962.7       930.2      1,063.9     2,591.6      1,375.9     4,359.6      1,514.6     7,564.6      11,843.0    1
Accounting and auditing                234.2        304.5       361.8        336.1       456.4        468.9       803.2        516.0     1,450.3       1,455.0
2,668.2      3,630.2     3,133.1      4,069.0     5,914.7      5,867.9     8,697.0      6,477.3    14,252.1      20,484.2
Net Operating Revenue                   3,886.5      3,202.8     3,139.2      3,849.0     4,124.8      4,566.6     3,071.8      5,603.7     7,057.0       8,553.5
Deduct: Interest Expense               351.6        716.4       617.3      1,221.1       790.4      1,294.6     1.888.0      1,185.9     1,988.4       6.034.7
NetL Income Before Interest Income      3,534.9      2,486.4     2,521.9      2,627.9     3,334.4      3,272.0     1,183.8      4,417.8     5,068.6       2,518.8
Add:  Interest Income                  287.7        460.0       746.2        475.0       481.3        775.0       591.4      1,300.0       356.4         593.4
Net Income                              3,822.6      2,946.4     3,268.1      3,102.9     3,815.7      4,047.0     1,775.2      5.717.8     5,425.0       3,112.2
Financial and Operating Ratios
(Excluding Interest Income)
Times interest covered                  ll.lx         4.5x        5.1x         3.2x        5.2x         3.5x        1.6x         4.7x        3.6x          1.4x
Cash generated, net operating
revenue plus depreciation         4,391.5       3,853.9     3,863.4      4,558.1     5,045.6      6,019.7     4,659.0      7,096.8     9,617.2      12,959.4
Total debt service                     351.6        982.4       899.0      1,516.1     1,286.5      2,059.2     4,509.1      2,059.2     4,353.0      10,714.0
Times debt service covered              12.5x         3.9x        4.3x         3.Ox        3.9x         2.9x        1.Ox         3.4x        2.2x          1.2x
Return on average net fixed assets      26.0%        21.5%       22.0%        27.0%       25.0%        14.1%        9.0%        18.2%       18.0%         12.0%
Operating ratio                        41%           53%         50%          51%         59%          56e         74%          54%         6 7           71%     ¢
Source: ENP and Mission Estimates                                                                                                                                    r
a,
Nay 1980



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Actual and Projected Revenues for the Project Ports
(Figures in Thousand Lempiras)
1 9 7 6                           1 9 7 8                1 9 7 9
Projected      Actual            Projected      Actual           Actual
PUERTO CORTES -
Operating Revenue                         8,779.0       9,577.0           10,070.9      18,572.0         24,250.9
Operating Expenses                        4,712.7       7,749.0            5,207.2       9,400.1         10,881.7
Net Operating Revenue                  4,066.3        1,828.0           4,863.7       9,171.9         13,369.2
Return on Average Fixed Assets              16.5%          5.4%              21.5%         26.2%            34.8%
Operating Ratio                             53.7%         81.0%              51.7%         50.6%            44.9%
HENECI,N
Operating Revenue                         1,655.5         550.9            2,010.1         751.9          1,828.3
Operating Expenses                        1,155.2         227.8            1,270.1         531.5          3,715.1
Net Operating Revenue                    500.3         223.1              740.0         220.4          1,886.8
Return on Average Fixed Assets               6.4%         33.0%              10.4%         61.0%              -
Operating Ratio                             70.0%         51.0%              63.2%         70.7%           203.0%
1/ Refers to figures for port activities only.                                                                             >
to4
Source:  ENP and Mission Estimates
May 1980



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
ENP Actual and Proiected Balance Sheets 1970 - 1979
(Figures in Thousand Lempiras)
1 9 7 0             1 9 7 2                   19 7 4                   19 7 6                    19 7 8             1 9 7 9
Actual      Forecast      Actual      Forecast     Actual      Forecast     Actual      Forecast      Actual        Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                    81.4        424.9        299.8        737.0       133.6        969.0       744.2         769.9     1,892.3        (104.4)
Bank time deposits and
short-term bonds                  7,718.4      9,200.0    13,059.8       9,800.0    4,032.3      17,700.0     3,638.8     29,000.0     2,650.6        1,934.8
Accounts receivable                    520.9        340.0      1,057.4        400.0     2,056.8        520.0     3,670.7         600.0     7,492,6       6,922.1
Stores, prepayments & advances         115.8        252.0       396.8         278.0     1,032.3        420.0       975.9        463.0      2,131.0       1,979.3
8,436.4     10,216.9     14,813.8     11,215.0     7,255.0     19,609.0     9,029.6     30,859.9     14,166.5      10,731.8
Less:  Current Liabilities              94.5         145.0     3.402.1        163.0     3,329.4        234.0     5,431.5         260.0    29,824.8      29.758.3
8,341.9     10,071.9     11,411.7     11,052.0     3,925.6     19,375.0     3,598.1     30,599.9    (15,658.3)    (19,026.5)
Amount Due From Government              1,467.0         319.2     1,466.3        610.2     1,619.5        919.2     2,775.6       1,247.2     2,756.4       3,893.9
Fixed Assets (Net)
Land                                   903.6        903.6        908.6      1,710.3     3,843.7      1,710.3     8,172.3       1,710.3    10,960.3      11,513.2
Installations & equipment           13,939.9     13,933.9     13.329.0     32.749.8    16.204.7     30,063.6    29,010.5     27,297.4     26,561.6      85.155.8
Net Fixed Assets in Use        14,843.5     14,837.5    14,237.6      34,460.1    20,048.4     31,773.9    37,182.8     29,007.7     37,521.9      96,669.0    w
Capital work in progress                95.9      6,114.8        838.8          -      15,271.3          -      12,423.6           -      58,432.1      46,554.0
Property for future development        388.1      2,170.0        546.1      2,170.0         -        2,170.0     2,063.5      2,170.0      7,758.2       4,035.3
Unamortized costs of studies           434.7        826.0        559.0          -         806.2          -         198.1           -       2,796.7       2,275.6
Total Fixed Assets             15,762.2     23,948.3    16,181.5      36,630.1    36,125.9     33,943.9    51,868.0     31,177.7    106,508.0     149,533.9
Total Assets                           25,571.1     34,339.4     29,059.5     48,292.3    41,671.0     54,238.1    58,241.7      63,024.8    98,607.0     134,407.3
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Long-Term Debt
World Bank Loan                      9,136.7      12,175.1     8,629.8     20,144.1    13,649.2     18,861.4     17,976.4     17,160.3    32,347.9      46,087.3
Other Debt                              91.4                   1,365.6                  4,018.4                  11,425.1                 32,106.7      51,4418
Total Debt                      9,228.1     12,175.1     9,995.3      20,144.1    17,667.6     18,861.4    29,401.5      17,160.3    64,454.6      97,529.1
Contingent Liability-Banana Wharf         500.0         500.0       500.0        500.0       500.0        500.0        500.0        500.0       500.0         500.0
Equity
Provided by Government               2,017.0      2,017.0      2,017.0      2,017.0     2,207.8      2,017.0     2,206.8       2,017.0     2,206.7       2,404.1
Retained earnings                   13,686.8     19,407.5     16,310.2     25,391.4    20,963.2     32,619.9    25,886.9     43,107.7     31,317.7      33,870.9
Reserves                               139.2        239.8        237.0        239.8       333.4        239.8       246.5         239.8       127.9         103.3
Total Equity                   15,843.0     21,664.3     18,564.2     2',64F.2    23,503.4     34,876.7    28,340.2     45,364.5     33,652.3      36,378.3
Total Capital and Liabilities          25,571.1     34,339.4     29,059.5     48.292.3    41,671.0     54,238.1    58,241.7      63,024.8    98,607.0     134,407.3
Source: ENP and Mission Estimates
M 1
May 1980



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS - LOAN 767-HO
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Actual and Appraisal Expectation of Financing During Project Period
Local Currency                              Foreign Currency
Actual        Appraisal Projection           Actual         Appraisal Projection
Lempiras      x      Lempiras      %         Lempiras              Lempiras      %
Source of Funds
ENP                      20.0      100        7.6        100           0.9       9.1        -          -
IBRD                      -         -         -          -             9.0      90.0        6.0       100
TOTAL                 20.0      100         7.6       100           9.9     100          6.0       100
May 1980






W  .,  E ,,w, 
P LAN TA
Oa.sS  a..s m,.9~~~a.,  CENIPAL AIOTES- PVAC C/O/ raUCT/ON  N07A5 GEIJERALES-CONSTRULCION DEL WULL
25        55            0/ Eo  s,.e =-,o,, 6ro       En Lsb.so           t             DES/CA)LV  o S                        I.v LC DAS DOTAS DE LN 5/SEtS,
/5      .     TD sO                                                                                            0-f ,  (Er pst/  c Jo  CloDse  LOo1Osno1 (0067 Cogs)  LoOo/  L,.De/ d, 50 Ton. (TsscM  d. /067)
s .   25rl ~~~~~~ >  _ GontryCoyoes /                    1                2gr>~~~~~~~~~~~~05. 27o  25; p2AM  S=ole LOEJN
4-0Loar7  na nwrI C^9r       W.,2§i  f 2e1Ibl  e
5ECClOKi4 A-A                                                       6no F6r                R.,.)oTnLrDD(aeesoI  9 
_ 21eScl a e1 S~~orgonoEe
[    _                             2 ft/A' LOAOs   00 2of                 2 CAF6A POR v'F0  2
stO2.30 ijt77,~sos~.sh7Z*630                  L,/ 36A  97
*A7V ] ' | CA doE|s/D  r  tocd ho/C e, if. LosOfi Cro/ Zd ys b f  F tt Con (obad,op  olds.
>   ~   - fi+   --      -----                    C6madc Serdad                  Af ArotUtCrt6Lt*obi7d9.  . .  1, 5 t  r  r -  o./doo  b /1jo - C/sallei d5/2.m dou/b 0. r9
-_   $14 ; ~                     /oi , b
H.I  . I/so s/7is.
W a     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a,e  mcloy llerood z boprobGtir zlSel
W'-. Ls Too Eo/PRESA CAI oA 11929£ PoT Co,sn
AI.5L  0.00                                           -----~~~56 4.0  oo  0..S,  6 .  0  ..9,8-d10L   0/n  705C,3                     l/OD  DL_tIrRO  Z..o p.,/l/B l -d
_                 _~~~~~~~~~~~R/S/        .L_ A  NLEYA             Es.sb  TEL Al s tW  |      PU RTOS/Do CORt st E /o S.,,o,.~ tiOlO26ASo/%S5  s o  ULsS,,./o  OEf,sd  3/SALCoo3s POD.snsdSa/oS  0
__2 T -o, wow/r _ E,o        -                  Af
2,11 - -  Terrsoo AprDs/.S/505 5,oStsOS* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      PRfC-        P-
Dc.,0n Sap-,f  0406046 Po'o  70 5hool Too  a  '.ss  s  o  sosO ,/ss  s05
A'I                          IIL.T"   ,l CO.C,,CTO   I-F~~~~~~~9.-DOIs
0  l /soeo  ',  ooO.oOi-Aoso'  ss        /OD  OL0/DT  aFSIAD
B-B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Laaolteso,o av                       o/sg s60 0,/           pd4A ,sDP/I 0604I s OD
DM0048                                                           o,00o/SsaSOoo(1L
IT/PP'ETIS-ABAETT-S.CARTHY-STRATISN  CERNAi Y MAu[II S. ESiR. L, EMPRESA NACIONAL PORTUARIA        PUERTO CORTES               006 E t0
%40EVA lo..C            5(00  4(~,           POER*O  COST L$. SSONO'URAS  -ETAPA   D0 AC0LIA/C/ON CE /PSSA/A-/-ES POSIU-./A
s.sss±    D/40/EO                     DS/555IGENERAL ARRANGEMENT                                                                               13-S-I
510/0555*s*  1.6'.  *5500/5555  I            sssossa p00                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLAN  GENERAL






G< / 3 '* f        //                                            -y
jA~~~~~1           "7    "->t                            '_
-\ iX    Jl  7     -4<'\,       | =I
V -- .,,                                     tt
I.~ ~                      _ _ __                           \  
000~~~~~~~~~
'4.
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S^rj L-CI ZLO       L Z-A X-'I 'N7
<      QQ1LUIA.SAN LOSR2NZOf \\ LC  l  ION _ E






FiGURE- .
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 77U=ELLF 2 
E/zSM-Puonto de Acc@sA
g              1:S    UU.,,.R term~~~~~~l-1,1doo
_   S                   m  ~~~~~~~~~~~Estruct "I"s 101nodo
I  |re  ribre        J    OTAS,
I.Inscalaci6n de
2I acero terninada
*!stelnea de alunbracio
'M GOoqnj0                ternEifnado.
1   IaJ. Pavirmento en zona
clon -  X  | |Ad°  cs Tip  G   Portuaria, terminadol
1 ' C S - ~~~~~~Tcnqu4 de> 
BETROED  E*                PU'EITO  SAFI LO RE?,ZO
|M|RESA NACIONAL PORTUAP1A
CAMENrAL'                  ZCOISA
C c ii*   d o  A c c . . o                            P R  A " A r   " E L ,






ANNEX I
NOVEMBER 24, 1982
MR. SHIV S. KAPUR
ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL
OPERATIONS EVALUATION
INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON DC
REFERENCE YOUR LETTERS OF SEPTEMBER 7 AND 10 1982, REGARDING PROJECT
PERFORMANCE REPORT OF HONDURAS SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN IB-896-HO) AND
PROJECT PERFORMANCE REPORT ON HONDURAS SECOND PORTS PROJECT (LOAN IB-767-HO)
WISH TO INFORM YOU WE ARE IN AGREEMENT WITH THEM. REGARDS,
RODOLFO MATAMOROS
SUBSECRETARIO DE HACIENDA Y
CREDITO PUBLICO
(UNDER-SECRETARY OF FINANCE AND
PUBLIC CREDIT)



