Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16429
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan 3176-AL
April 11, 1997
Private Sector Development, Finance, and Infrastructure Division
Countrv Department I (Maghreb and Iran)
N1iddle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY E0lJIVALiNTS
(Currenc%x tlnit - Al,erian Dlinar (DA)
1992  1993  1994  1995  JAIN 1996
DA per tESS, period average             ''.4  23.34  35.06 47.66 53.00
DA per USS,) end ot'period             92278 24.12 42.89  52.17 53.77
FISCAI. YEAR
.JarUarx I to lDecem ber 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANI) ACRONYMS
ANC:         Agence Nationale du Cadastre (National Land Registry)
B,A.         Ban)que d'Algerie
Bl 'A:       Banique Elxterieure d'Algrrie
BNA:         Banque Nationale d'Algorie
CNPl:        Conseil National de la Planification (National Planning Council)
CRD:         Centre de Recherche et de Dcveloppement (Center for Research and
Development)
DREE:        Directorat des Relations Economiques Exterieures (Directorate of
External Economic Relations)
LES AL:     Enterprise and Finanicial Sector Adjustment L.oan
FNORL        Entreprise Nationiale d'Organisation et d'Information
FRSI.-       Econom-ic Rehabilitation Support Loan
I TPI        ILtiblic Econ(oimic Fnterprise
L l'         local Public LEnterprisc
MIOUE.       \linistrx ol EconoruN
(0)NS:       Of(tice National des Statistiques (National Statistics Bureau)
SDR.         Special Drawing Rlights
SIBF:        SociUte interbancaire de Formation (Inter-Bank T'raining Company)
Vice President:            Kemal Dervis
Director     :             Daniel Ritchie
Division Chiefl':          Amir Al-Khafaj i
StaIf Member               Abderrezzak Ferroukhi, Pr. Energy Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Introduction
Project Evaluation Summary                                          i
PART 1:    EVALUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION
A.   STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                   1
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                 3
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                       6
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                    7
E.   BANK PERFORMANCE                                          8
F.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                      8
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                     9
H.   FUTURE OPERATION                                          9
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                     10
STATISTICAL DATA
TABLE 1:  Summary of Assessments
TABLE 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
TABLE 3:  Project Timetable
TABLE 4:   Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
I-ABLE 5:  Studies Included in the Project
TABLE 6A: Project Costs
TABLE 6B: Project Financing
TABLE 7:   Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants
TABLE 8:   Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
TABLE 9:   Bank Resources - Missions
ANNEX
Borrower's Project Evaluation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 3176-AL)
INTRODUCTION
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Technical Assistance
Project implemented in Algeria and financed by Loan 3176-AL (US$26 million
equivalent), which was approved on March 6, 1990 and became effective on April 22,
1991.
The closing date was August 5, 1996, instead of December 31, 1993 as originally
planned. The loan was disbursed at 81% (up to a total of US$21,088,840.56). and the
final disbursement was made on June 3. 1996, when the undisbursed balance
(US$4,911,159.44) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Abderrezzak Ferroukhi (Private Sector Development,
Finance, and Infrastructure Division. Maghreb and Iran Department [Country Department
1], Middle East and North Africa Regional Office) and reviewed by Amir Al-Khafaji
(Division Chief) and Charles Sterling (Financial Analyst), from the same division. The
Borrower provided comments, together with the Project Evaluation annexed to the
present report.
This ICR was based on the material in the project files, and was prepared after
interviews with the relevant Bank staff and a completion mission (November 2-10, 1996).
The Borrower provided certain data on request, together with its own project evaluation
and comments on the preliminary draft of the ICR.






TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan 3176-AL
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This loan was made as part of the support provided by the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) for Algeria's efforts to launch a wide-ranging
program of economic and social reform. To implement this, the Algerian Government
considered it essential to establish an appropriate institutional structure. The loan was to
be combined with other forms of World Bank assistance in this area, specifically the
Economic Reform Support Loan (3117-AL, totaling US$300 million and approved by the
Board in August 1989), and lending relating to the Industrial Restructuring
Demonstration Project (Loans 3210-AL through 3214-AL) totalling US$99.5 million,
approved in May 1989. Both sets of loans were completed and closed. The basic
objective of Loan 3117-AL was to help restore macroeconomic equilibrium and bring
about sustainable growth, and it was particularly concerned with the gradual transition
from a planned economy to a market economy. Discussions with the Government
indicated the need for a technical assistance loan to help mitigate institutional
shortcomings in the agencies responsible for implementing reforms, particularly in the
Ministry of the Economy (MOE), Banque d'Algerie (BA), and other financial
institutions. Subsequently (in June 1991), the Bank's Board approved the Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL, loan 3352-AL, totaling US$350 million).
This had been completely disbursed as of June 30. 1995, and enabled the Government to
apply rigorous budgetary and monetary policies and price and trade liberalization, and to
adopt basic measures for reorganizing the public enterprise sector.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were as follows:
(a)   to strengthen the managerial, technical and administrative capabilities of
MOE and BA;
(b)   to strengthen the technical capabilities of the staff of the participating
financial institutions;
(c)   to strengthen the auditing capabilities of the enterprises;
(d)   to improve international financial management.



ii
The purpose was to provide the government agencies and institutions involved in
the reforms with the human and technical resources essential for the success of those
reforms.
3.    The project's technical assistance program  consisted of the following three
components:
(i)   technical assistance for modernizing and strengthening MOE through a
training program, computerization of certain of its operations, and preparation of studies
on cadastral development of the Borrower's territory;
(ii)  technical assistance for financial sector institutions, strengthening the
technical capabilities of the Central Bank, training auditors in selected public enterprises,
and training staff from commercial banks;
(iii) technical assistance for the preparation of the studies necessary for the
reforms (i.e. the promotion of nontraditional exports, the use of funds of insurance
companies, cadastral development, and a survey of living standards indicators).
Experience and Achievement of Objectives
4.    Achievement of the main objective (i.e. strengthening the technical capabilities of
the main agencies and institutions responsible for implementing the economic reforms) is
satisfactory. This strengthening was the result of the modernization brought about by the
acquisition of specialized equipment and computer hardware for the central units of
MOE, the Planning Ministry, and BA. About 80% of the target for computerization was
achieved in MOE (US$4.36 million of the relevant allocations) and BA (US$775,000).
The specialized equipment component (i.e. specialized vehicles, and equipment for the
printing facilities of BA and the Caisse Centrale) was implemented in its entirety.
Overall, the initial allocations for equipment and materials were exceeded by a
considerable margin, totaling US$15.6 million (60%) instead of the planned US$11.8
million (40%). Once the loan agreement had been amended (in June 1992), certain
allocations had to be reprioritized to meet the needs of new beneficiaries (i.e. the Ministry
of Housing), and revised to allow for the speeding up of disbursements.
5.    As regards the studies component, four of the originally planned seven studies had
to be canceled. The remaining three (i.e. the preliminary study on the national cadastre,
and the studies of the incidence of consumer subsidies and living standards) proved to be
effective tools in the preparation of the reform measures. Since it would have been
premature to undertake the other studies, there was some justification for canceling them;
i.e. the study on the utilization of the funds of insurance companies (which was
subsequently carried out separately from the project), and the study on incentives and
support for nontraditional exports. There was no reason to carry out the study on the
liberalization of the price system once the Government had decided to liberalize prices.



iii
6.    Project sustainability is likely. Modernizing those institutions bearing the main
responsibility for implementing economic reforms was a necessary prerequisite for
upgrading the quality of their management. Nevertheless, sustainability will depend on
the will of the Borrower to deepen the training activities that have now been launched, as
a means of improving the standards and quality of service provided by the operators,
particularly the intermediaries.
7.    Many factors either prevented certain objectives from  being satisfactorily
achieved, or caused delays in their implementation. As a result. the loan period was twice
extended. Of these factors, the following are noteworthy: (i) the project's excessively
complex structure, which included objectives that were sometimes irreconcilable, or else
difficult to implement in the institutional environment prevailing in the country during
the project period; (ii) the excessive number of beneficiary agencies and institutions; (iii)
the lack of familiarity with World Bank procurement procedures shown by some of the
agencies; (iv) irregular project coordination, resulting from frequent changes in the
membership of the Borrower's project teams; (v) a lack of continuity in the Bank's
supervision missions.
8.    The quality of the Bank's performance was uneven. At the preparation and
identification stages, the belief expressed that there was a need to push ahead with the
project so that it could be combined with the other forms of support for economic reform
made it impossible to carry out the sort of detailed appraisal that could have defined
technical assistance priorities more clearly. As a result, the training component could be
only partially implemented. Training needs were set at a higher level than was feasible.
This was particularly true of audit training, which was to cover about 400 external
auditors. 1,000 internal auditors, and 65 trainers. Consequently, no part of the US$2.39
million allocation to INF (the National Finance Institute) was used.
9.    As indicated above, the lack of continuity in Bank supervision had adverse effects
on project implementation, and for a certain period no supervision missions were carried
out in the field. Among the reasons for this were the frequent changes in the Bank's
monitoring teams. Furthermore, the pace of disbursements was not helped by a partial
freeze on the loan that lasted for some months partly as a result of the security situation,
and it remained very slow for a long time. Improved monitoring toward the end of the
project enabled the disbursement rate to be increased before the closing date was reached.
10.   Borrower performance was satisfactory during the preparation phase, but
comparatively deficient during implementation. However, this judgment cannot be
extended to all operators. Some were not sufficiently acquainted with the lending process
and related procedures, and were therefore unable either to utilize all of the financing
allocated to them, or else to utilize it in a timely manner. Moreover, agencies tended to
devote most of their efforts to acquiring the physical equipment that -- without any doubt
-- they urgently needed, but it is not at all certain that the staff responsible for operating it
efficiently was adequately prepared. In addition, the assistance provided under the
project would have been more effective if all such agencies had been able to reorganize as
planned and make proper use of the resources allocated to them. However, this did not



iv
happen in the case of institutions such as the commercial banks, which play a crucial role
in the implementation of the economic reforms. Strengthening the technical capabilities
of the staff of these banks was one of the objectives of the loan, but this was not carried
out, so there is no guarantee that the staff gained the standard of expertise necessary for
operating in the sort of environment that is typical of an economy in transition and was
becoming increasingly market-oriented.
11.   Despite these shortcomings, the outcome of the project can be rated as
satisfactory. The achievement of these objectives will -- to some extent -- make it easier
to implement macroeconomic reforms, because the agencies responsible for those reforms
have been provided with modem management tools.
Summary of Conclusions, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Overall, this technical assistance project has been a useful tool in providing
support for Algeria's economic reform program. In particular, the acquisition of office
and computer equipment and -- to a lesser degree -- pedagogical materials was a
necessary step in preparing the Algerian institutions to implement reforms, all the more
so since the economy was in a process of transition toward a decentralized system. It was
necessary to reform this economy, which had for so long been characterized by
institutional shortcomings that affected planning and organization, and by inadequate
management capacity in MOE and BA, which were key institutions for the application of
the reforms. Nevertheless, not all the project components were implemented with the
desired degree of success. Because certain agencies (in particular, the commercial banks)
practically did not benefit from the proceeds of the loan, distortions were created among
the various reforming agencies with regard to their standards of management capacity.
As a consequence, the loan was disbursed at 81% and some of its components have not
been completed.
13.  In addition, the reforms that have only recently been initiated in public enterprises
(including the planned privatization of some of these) can have a chance of success only
if a modem and efficient banking system is in place. One of the key lessons learned is
that successful reforms in the financial sector and reorganization of the banking system
are a prerequisite for the overall reorganization of public enterprises, particularly in the
industrial sector. The project was overdimensioned considering the limited capacity of
certain implementing agencies, the slow introduction of reforms in the financial sector,
the enormous needs for training and the infancy of the external audit sector.
14.   A further lesson is that it is important for a borrower to establish a coordinating
team to ensure that a project will be properly implemented. Such a unit was all the more
essential for supervising and managing a loan destined for a number of beneficiaries and
designed to deal with institutional issues and the modernization of management through
the purchase of large amounts of physical resources. The Department for External
Economic Relations (DREE) -- an agency of MOE -- was made responsible for this
function, but does not have the powers or human and physical resources necessary for
performing it effectively.



PART 1
EVALUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION
A.   STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Introduction
I.    After the sharp fall in crude oil prices in 1986, Algeria faced a serious
deterioration in its trade balance, amounting to about 45%. When attempts to maintain
adequate levels of investment and consumption through the use of extemal financing
failed. the country embarked upon a program of structural adjustment, the objectives of
which were to grant increased autonomy to public enterprises and commercial banks, and
to expand the role of the private sector. This phase of the country's reforms received
World Bank and IMF support. In May 1989. the IMF approved a first stand-by
arrangement with compensatory financing totaling SDR 471 million. In August 1989, the
Bank approved the first adjustment loan, the Economic Reform Support Loan (US$300
million). The IMF assistance was to support short-term structural adjustment in the area
of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policy, while the Bank's support was for medium-
term structural adjustment, including reforms of incentives in the financial and productive
sectors. The Technical Assistance Loan was considered a necessary measure for
facilitating the introduction of these reforms.
2.    By end-1990, the Government had established the legal and regulatory foundation
for the economic reforms, and decided to continue the process of institutional reform,
calling upon the Bank and IMF for their support. The country's macroeconomic position
was still weak, and marked by a continuing decline in hydrocarbon revenues and a
worsening of debt-service problems.  The Government was obliged to restrict its
nonessential imports. reduce capital investment. increase nonhydrocarbon taxes, and
restructure its external debt by calling upon additional multilateral financing.
3.   In June 1991, the Bank's Board approved the EFSAL (the Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan), shortly after the IMF's SDR 300 million stand-by
arrangement was signed. The essential purpose of this loan was to support action to
adjust the exchange rate of the Algerian dinar, liberalize imports, apply performance
criteria for increases in the issuance of credit by the banking system, obtain external loans
at market rates. and restore the level of reserves. Bank support for structural adjustment
was closely coordinated with the IMF.



2
Statement of Objectives
4.    The project had the following objectives:
(1)   to strengthen the technical, administrative and managerial capabilities in
general of MOE and BA:
(2)   to strengthen the technical and administrative capabilities of the
Participating Financial Institutions;
(3)   to strengthen the auditing capabilities of the Borrower;
(4)   to improve the Borrower's international finance management capabilities.
5.    Implementation of this program, which was intended to provide general support
for the ongoing macroeconomic reforms, was to be divided into the following three
components:
(i)   technical assistance to MOE, modernizing and strengthening the Ministry
through training programs, computerization of its operations, and the launching of the
initial phase of cadastral development;
(ii)  technical assistance for institutions in the financial sector, strengthening
the technical capabilities of BA, training auditors in selected public enterprises, and
training commercial bank staff,
(iii)  technical assistance for the preparation of the studies necessary for
implementing the reforms (i.e. the promotion of nontraditional exports, the use of funds
of insurance companies, the incidence of consumer subsidies, and measuring living
standards in the Borrower's territory).
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    The objectives were clearly defined. The technical assistance program designed
during project preparation was consistent with:  (a) overall Bank support for the
Government's priorities in its macroeconomic reforn  programs; (b) the need to
modernize management in those Algerian institutions directly responsible for
implementing and monitoring the reform programs. The success of the reforms depended
on the action taken to provide these institutions with the necessary technical and
institutional resources during this crucial phase of economic transition. The objectives
were defined in light of the inadequate level of staff skills and the general shortage of
equipment in the agencies concerned with economic affairs, a situation that was
inconsistent with the economic changes planned by the Government.



3
7.    The reform programs and related technical assistance measures proved to be
ambitious and complex. They were ambitious in that the intention was to dismantle
features of an economic system characterized for 25 years by a highly centralized form of
management in which the State took all decisions regarding prices, resource allocation.
distribution, and intervened directly in the management of public enterprises. These
reforms were to be implemented at the same time as the measures adopted in connection
with the technical assistance loan for strengthening the technical capabilities of the
economic agencies. Some of these measures did in fact fulfill their specified function;
namely, the upgrading of human and physical management resources. In contrast, the
implementation of certain others proved complex because of difficulties arising both from
exogenous factors, such as the deterioration in the political and social climate, and also
from factors inherent in the project, resulting from problems caused by the excessive
number of operators and beneficiaries, even though such problems had been anticipated
during project preparation.  To avert these difficulties, it had been agreed that a
coordinating body would be established. since this would be crucial to the project's
proper implementation. Its role was to coordinate and promote project implementation,
both overall and in each component.  The following specific measures had been
proposed:
(i)    maintaining close links with the main economic actors and executing
agencies;
(ii)   coordinating and assessing applications from the executing agencies,
before forwarding these to the Bank;
(iii)  assisting the executing agencies with project implementation;
(iv)   monitoring the project timetable:
(v)   providing  for  project  implementation  and  the  preparation  of
documentation, in accordance with a schedule agreed jointly with the
Bank.
Coordination was entrusted to DREE, but it was not always effective, except
during the final year of implementation.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    Overall, and judged by the objectives defined during its preparation, the project's
impact is rated substantial with respect to physical objectives, partial for institutional
development and finance sector policy, and negligible for macro policies. The main
project objectives were achieved with varying degrees of success in the three major
components, i.e. principally: (i) technical assistance for MOE; (ii) technical assistance
for agencies in the financial sector, particularly BA; (iii) technical assistance for studies
necessary for the preparation of reforms.



4
Technical Assistance for MOE
8.    The achievement of objectives was substantial particularly with respect to the
strengthening of the Ministry's organization and the computerization of most of its
central operations. Computer hardware and software were acquired for implementing the
stated objective of strengthening technical, managerial, and administrative capabilities.
Because of the implementation of the cadastral component, ANC was provided with the
equipment it urgently needed, and cadastral development in the field was intensified
(through the installation of orthoprojectors, topographical survey apparatus, and graphical
stations, and the acquisition of spare parts for vehicles). Moreover, the cadastral study
undertaken at the same time provided information on the financing necessary for the
various items required for the preparation of the general cadastre, an important stage in
the process of land transfers and privatization that has now been initiated.
9.    Implementation of the project's computerization program benefited almost all the
Directorates General concerned, specifically the Directorate of Taxes, the Directorate of
the Budget, the Directorate of State Lands, and the Directorate of Competition and Prices
(Direction des Imp6ts, du Budget, des Domaines, de la Concurrence et des Prix), the one
notable exception being the Directorate of Customs (Direction des Douanes), the
allocation for which was canceled. Particular attention was given to identifying systems
and technical assistance requirements for upgrading the following:
(i)   the organizational and institutional bases of the government revenue
collection system, and development of the tax identification system and a
taxation database,
(ii)  the organizational and institutional bases of the Directorate of State Lands,
for improving management of the national cadastre;
(iii) computerization of the Directorate General of Taxes, in accordance with
the master plan and implementation program approved during preparation
of the Technical Assistance Project.
10.   In contrast, not all the training and pedagogical materials procurement programs
were implemented with the same degree of success, and their rating was partial. Some of
these programs probably contributed to the -- albeit partial -- strengthening of the staff s
technical capabilities, but achievements in this area failed by far to meet the training
needs identified at the time by a ministerial study. The two-phase training program was
not fully completed. The first phase was to comprise the training of trainers and the
supply of pedagogical materials and documentation, while the second was to consist of
training for several thousand ministry employees.  Certain training activities were
hindered by delays arising from cumbersome procedures and the lack of effective
coordination. Particularly affected was the program operated by INF (Institut National
des Finances) for training internal and external auditors, a profession in which the country



5
is sorely lacking. SIBF (Societe interbancaire de Financement) partially implemented the
banking training programs for the staff of the financial institutions. The pilot program of
audits to be applied to 25 public enterprises (the "pilot audit") was implemented during
the first phase only, and the second phase -- in which a procedures manual for public
enterprise auditing would have been produced -- was not implemented. Such a manual
should be developed, since it is an indispensable tool for successfully reorganizing the
public enterprises.  Finally, it should be noted that the training of 30 inspectors
constitutes a first step toward upgrading staff qualifications in the area of public finance.
Technical Assistance for BA
11.   The achievement of objectives relating to technical assistance for BA was rated
substantial as regards institutional development (i.e. reorganization and training),
physical objectives (computerization and equipment modernization), and macroeconomic
policies (monetary policy, debt management, and exchange rates). In reality, both the
acquisition of computer and other specialized equipment, together with training, clearly
contributed toward strengthening technical and managerial capabilities in this institution.
The relevant allocations were totally disbursed, and this was achieved practically on
schedule. This outcome is due to sound preparation on the part of BA and a clear
definition of needs by the management and the team responsible for project preparation.
Computerization was carried out on the basis of a master plan that facilitated the
procurement of hardware and software. The necessary process of modernizing the Caisse
G6n6rale and the printing facilities was carried out by procuring and installing equipment
for the monitoring of trust resources, specialized forms of transportation, and the disposal
of banknotes.
12.   The training programs financed under the loan made a considerable contribution
toward upgrading technical and managerial skills in the following areas: management of
the money market, management of overseas services, international financial management,
and risk assessment. BA also established an internal training system as a result of the
assistance received from outside consultants. External technical assistance enabled BA's
Personnel Department to define its training needs and train personnel operating in priority
sectors in the Research, External Relations. and Credit Departments.
13.   Nevertheless, there is some doubt as to whether the other participating financial
institutions benefited to the same degree from the training programs in the areas
identified in the project, such as risk management and international financial
management. Most of the commercial banks are far from having the qualified human
resources, and equipment of an acceptably advanced standard of technology, that would
be necessary for managing their operations efficiently. Considered from this viewpoint,
the project had not achieved its purpose. Without any doubt, the shortcomings in the
bank modernization and training components deepened the skills gaps among the various
agencies directly involved in implementing the reforms.



6
Technical Assistance with Studies
14.   The rating for this aspect of assistance was marginal. The program of studies
defined in the project was disrupted by changes in government policy and by the
worsening economic and social context. Four of the originally planned seven studies had
to be canceled. Of the three that were in fact carried out, that relating to the development
of the general cadastre will prove a useful tool during preparations for the complex and
lengthy process upon which the Government has embarked of privatizing and transferring
the ownership of agricultural land. The cancellation of some of the studies, such as the
one concerned with the liberalization of the price system, was justified; and, as indicated
above, some of the reform measures -- including price liberalization -- were promptly and
effectively implemented. The statistical survey for measuring living standards was
performed by Office National des Statistiques outside the framework of the project.
Some parties consider that it would have been premature to carry out important studies
such as that on the promotion of nontraditional exports.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Generally beyond the Government's Control
15.   Project implementation was disrupted by two factors that were beyond the
Government's control. The first was the deterioration in the country's political and social
climate, following the annulment of the 1991 legislative elections and the ensuing
disturbances. In this difficult context, the Government was facing the need both to
reestablish law and order, and to restore economic growth. These problems led to delays
in the project, and to changes in its priorities. In particular, the institutional development
objectives relating to staff training for the participating agencies were revised, and some
of the courses and specialized seminars had to be canceled.
16.   The second factor was the deterioration in the economic situation, which was
essentially the result of the decline in hydrocarbon revenues. This adversely affected the
overall performance of the economy, and aggravated the problems faced by the
Government in its attempts to reestablish macroeconomic stability, promote growth, and
thus bring about structural change. In 1990, during project implementation. the average
price of Algerian crude fell from  US$24 per barrel to US$20.  Macroeconomic
projections had been based on a price of US$20 in real terms over the 1992-94 period, but
in fact the price continued to fall in real terms, sinking to about US$15. The resulting
deterioration in the external debt situation made rescheduling necessary. The schedule of
the reforms for which the various Bank loans had been obtained had to be revised, and
implementation was delayed.



7
Factors within the Government's Control
17.   The Borrower's numerous changes of project personnel was one of the factors that
affected the scheduling of implementation; however, this risk had been anticipated during
project preparation, and it had been specified that a coordinating body should be
established. As indicated above, the management unit -- headed by a member of DREE -
- was unable to provide the necessary coordination, and it did not receive the necessary
resources for fulfilling its key role of leading, coordinating, and supervising the project.
It was therefore impossible to solve the problems encountered by the beneficiaries with
respect to the World Bank's procurement procedures, withdrawals of proceeds, and the
use of Bank -- or outside -- experts. Only those agencies with staff that were familiar
with the various project components and the Bank's procedures were able to achieve their
objectives to a satisfactory degree.
Factors within the Control of the Executing Agencies
18.   Some of the Algerian operators were unable to benefit from their loan allocations,
either because of their unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, or because of administrative
delays in the release of funds. These agencies -- such as SIBF and ONS -- had had no
previous exposure to the Bank's procurement procedures. SIBF was unable to carry out
the pedagogical materials component, which was a necessary step toward the
implementation of short courses and long-term training. ONS was unable to adopt the
necessary measures in a timely manner, and had to take the decision not to acquire
computer hardware, even though its loan allocation was increased. SIBF was obliged to
abandon its plan of preparing pedagogical tools.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.   Project sustainability is rated as likely. The modernization and strengthening of
technical capabilities in the main financial and banking institutions will facilitate
implementation of the successive institutional reform programs undertaken by the
Government. As part of these programs, a number of measures have been adopted for
increasing the autonomy of the public enterprises, strengthening the role of the private
sector, establishing an efficient financial system, and continuing the implementation of
macroeconomic policies for fostering strong, stable growth. The existence of modem
management resources provides a favorable institutional environment for the successful
implementation of these measures.
20.   Nevertheless, the sustainability of this technical assistance will depend on the
Borrower's commitment to continue providing training for the staff of the institutions.
Implementation of these programs was partial, and thus it has not been possible to
mitigate the problems caused by the lack of qualified managers and personnel. This is all
the more important. since the enterprises themselves have yet to be reorganized. The



8
future phases of financial sector reform will include extensive training for the operators
responsible for managing the reforms.
E.   BANK PERFORMANCE
21.  Identification. Bank performance was judged satisfactory. The project was
identified as a means of providing technical support and supplementing the Bank's other
projects of support for the successive macroeconomic reform programs. Appraisal took
account of training and equipment needs at the time of project preparation, and was
consistent with the priorities indicated in the Borrower's economic development policies
and with the Bank's commitment to provide assistance with these efforts.
22.   Preparation/Appraisal. The performance of the Bank was rated marginally
satisfactory. It had certainly emphasized the need for a unit that would be responsible for
project management and coordination, anticipating that such a unit would have an
important role to play by coordinating activities in the large number of agencies involved.
Appraisal seems to have been based to a greater extent on various requests presented by
the Algerian Government, rather than being submitted to a thorough appraisal of the
feasibility and consistency of the different components. The insistence at the time of
project preparation that it be implemented as a matter of urgency made it impossible to
anticipate the problems posed by certain components for certain agencies lacking the
necessary preparation. Despite the urgency that was stressed during project preparation,
it was to be 16 months before the loan became effective.
23.   Supervision. Bank supervision during the project was uneven, and was rated
marginally deficient. The project suffered from a lack of continuity in supervision
because of the many changes in the relevant Bank teams, and the failure for over two
years to provide supervision missions in the field. The final supervision mission was in
June 1993. The disbursement rate remained low; in 1993, it got no higher than 30%.
Even though the project was amended in June 1992, disbursement was speeded up to an
appreciable degree only in the final months preceding the closing date.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   Preparation.  Borrower performance was rated satisfactory.  The agencies
benefiting from the project participated actively in preparation, and some speedily
provided information relating to their equipment and materials needs. Detailed studies
had been made of staff training needs in key positions in MOE and BA. The latter, which
already possessed skilled supervisory staff, had prepared documentation on its human
resource and skills requirements, based on future expansion and the new role it was to
play.



9
25.  Implementation. Here, performance was judged somewhat deficient. In spite of
sound preparation and the interest shown by the various actors in moving ahead with an
exhaustive program of assistance, the project was slow in getting under way. More than a
year elapsed between Board approval and effectiveness. Decision-making was slow,
particularly as regards procurement. Certain studies which had to be carried out during
the first project year in order to be useful were either delayed or canceled, in spite of the
potential usefulness of their conclusions and recommendations in providing responses to
the problems of implementing structural reforms. These delays particularly affected the
establishment of the coordinating unit in DREE and the changes that ensued. As a result
of these delays, the project was revamped in 1992 -- two years after preparation -- to take
account of the changes in the economic environment and new technical assistance needs.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.   Nevertheless, the overall outcome is judged satisfactory.  The main project
objectives were in fact achieved, albeit to different degrees. The modernization of the
various institutions in the banking and financial sector and of the Government's central
agencies was productive, since these acquired modem management resources as a result
of the financing provided for importing specialized equipment at a time when foreign
exchange resources were inadequate. The large-scale computerization that was carried
out contributed greatly toward upgrading the management capabilities of the Algerian
operators and improving the monitoring of an economy in transition. Such achievements
will go some way toward offsetting the shortcomings affecting the key institutions of the
economy, especially with regard to resource mobilization and allocation, and should
serve to upgrade the agencies' capacities for properly applying government policy in the
areas of taxation, monetary questions, and trade, as part of the ongoing restructuring
process.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
27.  In 1994, it became clearly evident to the Borrower and the Bank that the EFSAL
objectives would not be achieved. Additional reforms were formulated, supported, and
followed by adjustment operations. The first of these was the Economic Rehabilitation
Support Loan (ERL). approved at the beginning of 1995. It had the same objectives as
the EFSAL. but went further in the following significant aspects: the Government
formally adopted a privatization policy permitting the privatization of EPEs (Public
Economic Enterprises), and issued decrees liquidating EPLs (Local Public Enterprises).
In 1996, the Government continued its reform efforts, with support form the SAL
(Structural Adjustment Loan), and consequently: (a) began the privatization process, in
the form of pilot programs; (b) undertook to continue the privatization program in a large
number of sectors; (c) launched the process of liquidating small EPLs; (d) began to
impose budgetary constraints and controls on public enterprises; (e) undertook to
continue its reform measures in the financial sector, including the opening up to the
private sector of the capital resources and management of at least one public commercial
bank. All these activities are far from complete, and there is still a long way to go before



10
a decentralized economy has been established in the country, but the Government's
commitment to privatization and improved perfornance in the banking and enterprise
sector is a determining factor for the success of the deep reforms affecting all spheres of
activity. Future Bank support must be focused on reforms in specific sectors --
particularly the financial sector -- and on providing assistance for promoting the private
sector, so as to enable the latter to play its full role in the economy.
1.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.   The objectives as defined during project preparation were reasonably in line with
the prevailing conditions and constraints, so that some of them were satisfactorily
achieved, particularly as regards the physical components. This was the case with the
modernization of management tools in the agencies concerned, which was achieved as a
result of the acquisition of computer hardware and specialized equipment and materials.
Subsequently, however, it rapidly became evident that uncertainties existed regarding the
implementation of a number of other objectives, as a result of political, economic, and
social changes in Algeria during the lifetime of the project.  As a consequence,
difficulties arose that particularly affected the soft components of the project, such as
some of the training programs (e.g. those for auditors, the managerial staff of the
financial institutions, etc.), and some of the studies had to be canceled. The project's
objectives were probably too ambitious in relation to the country's economic and social
environment. At the time of preparation, there was a mismatch between the institutional
needs of the agencies that were to benefit -- particularly as regards training -- and their
absorptive capacity.
29.   The first lesson to be learned is that, unless the arrangements for coordination are
good. it is difficult to manage a technical assistance program of this complexity with any
success.  The establishment of a coordinating unit is a prerequisite for the proper
implementation of a program involving many parties. The project had strongly insisted
on the establishment of such a unit, and responsibility for it was placed on DREE. The
unit was not often effective in playing its role, despite the various calls from Bank
supervision missions for it to be made more active.  This partly accounts for the
implementation problems encountered. and even the cancellation of some contracts. This
is why it is important in future to secure both the definite commitment of the Borrower to
establish such a body, and for the latter to be formally vested with the necessary authority
for fulfilling its functions.
30.   The second lesson is that the assistance provided under the project -- whether this
was in the form of physical resources or the upgrading of human resources -- did not
benefit all the recipients in the same way or with the same degree of effectiveness. The
result was that some agencies were better prepared for carrying out their roles in the
reform process (BA. for example), whereas others were affected by delays in their
programs of equipment, management modernization, and staff training.  This is
particularly true of the commercial banks, which are still far from possessing the modern



I1
management tools that would enable them to offer services of the sort to be expected
from financial institutions providing support for an economy in transition.
31.   The third lesson to be drawn from this operation is the importance of sound
planning in the Bank's activities for providing overall support for the Borrower at the
various stages of the implementation of reforms. The technical assistance supplied under
this loan was quite rightly regarded as a necessary addition to the other loans' provided
by the Bank in support of the Borrower's macroeconomic reforms. Consequently, proper
implementation of the technical assistance loan -- at least in some of its components --
will have a positive impact on the anticipated outcomes of the other loans, particularly
loan 3117-AL. All of these were followed by the important EFSAL loan, designed to
help deepen the reform process, and the context for its implementation was improved by
the higher standard of management provided by the now better equipped economic
agencies.
The Economic Reform Support Loan (3117-AL), and the Industrial Restructuring
Demonstration Project (Loans 3210-AL through 3214-AL).



Statistical Tables
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Studies Included in Project
Table 6A:     Project Costs
Table 6B:     Project Financing
Table 7:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:      Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                       v
Sector Policies                                      v
Financial Objectives                                                               ,
Institutional Development                            v
Physical Objectives                     V
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                                                            v
Environmental Objectives                                                           V
Public Sector Management                             v
Private Sector Development                                                         v
Other (Energy Conservation)                                                        v
B. Proiect Sustainability               Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                             V
Preparation Assistance                                     v
Appraisal                                                  V
Supervision                                                                   V
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                V/
Implementation                                                                v
Covenant Compliance                                        V
Operation (if applicable)                                  V
E. Assessment of Outcome           HivhIy                                            Hiehlv
Satisfactorv   Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Ve



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credittitle                          Purpose                        Year of approval                   Status
Preceding operations
I. Loan 3117- EconomicReform           Torestoremacro-economicequilibriaand      August31, 1989          Closedon 12/31/91
SuppornLoan                            sustainablegrowth: focus on gradual
transformationfrom centrally planned                              Essentiallyfully disbursed
US$ 300 M                              economy into a more decentralized,market-                         (cancellationofUSS 1 .2 m)
oriented system
Followingoperations
1. Loan 3210-14 - Industrial           To supportrestructuringand corporatization   May 5, 1990          Closed on 6/30/95 and
RestructuringDemonstrationProject      of four representativepublic enterprises                          12/31/95. USS69.3 m
disbursed.
US$99.5 M
2. Loan 3352 - Enterpriseand Financial    To re-establishmacro-economicequilibria  June 21,1991          Closed on June 30,1995.
SectorAdjustmentLoan                   through rigorous budgetary and monetary                           Fully disbursed(USS350 m)
policies and a flexible exchange rate policy;
US$350 M                               implementtrade and price liberalization,in
order to enable most prices to be market
determinedand allow decentralized
decision-making,effect structural change.
with a view to decentralizingeconomic
decision-makingand creating a level playing
field for all enterprises,private as well as
public; the ultimate aim was to create an
economy driven by competitive forces and
market discipline; and to strengthensocial
and employmentpolicies to protect the most
disadvantagedgroups from negative effects
of reforms.
3. Loan3834-EconomicRehabilitation    Tosupportdeepeningofmacroeconomic          January 12, 1995        ClosedonDecember31, 1996.
Support (ERL)                          stabilizationand structural reform program;                       Fully disbursed(USS150Gm)
measures include devaluation, trade reform,
US$150 M                               price and interestrate liberalization,granting
autonomy to remainingpublic enterprises,
private sector developmentmeasures, a
small privatizationprogram, and
strengtheningof social protection system
4. Loan 4005- Structural Adjustment    To transformeconomy quickly towards a     April 25, 1996          Not yet effective
Loan                                   market-basedone. Measures include: public
expenditure reform, l arge-scale program of
US$300 M                               privatizationof small enterprises,banking
reform, strengtheningof social safety net.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  03/28/89       03/28/88
Preparation                              05/89             09/18/88
Appraisal                                10/06/89          10/06/89
Negotiations                             01/03/90          01/03/90
Board Presentation                       03/06/90          03/06/90
Signing                                  09/26/90          09/26/90
Effectiveness                            12/26/90 (5/90)'   04/22/91
Loan Closing                             12/31/93          12/31/95
As originally estimated in the MOP.



Table 4: Loan/CreditDisbursernents: CumulativeEstimated and Actual
(tJ.SS mi/lon.s)
FY 90              FY 91               FY 92               FY 931              FY 94               FY 95                1FY 96
Original Estimate               0                  8.6                 16.2               23.8                 26                  26                    26
Actual                     0                  2.29                2.29                3.53                8.5                 15.68                21.08
Actualas%oofEstimate              0%                26.6%               14.1%               14.8%               32.7%               60.3%                81.11%
Date of Final Disbursement                                                                                                                                06/13/96
Sources: President'sReport, FDB Reports
Original closing date of loan.



Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined                                               Cost
Study                 at Appraisal/Redefined                    Status                  (US$)                Impact of Study
I. Liberalizationof    To adviseon nextphasesof liberalization    Canceled               $150,000              n.a.
Price System           of price system and formulate action plan
for phasing out price controls. Study based
on an evaluationof potential impactof
their removal and an estimate of their real
costs.
2. 1ncentivesand       To identify waystopromotenon-           Canceled                  S240,000              n.a.
Institutional Support    traditional export and make
for Non-Traditional    recommendationsfor stimulatingnon-
(non-hydrocarbon)      traditional export growth.
Exports
3. InsuranceStudy      To bener utilizefundsofinsurance        Canceled                  $160,000              n.a.
companies. To make recommendations
for reforms goveming their operations
based on an analysis of the supervisory
framework in which they operate and
prospect of involving them in financial
markets.
4. ConsumerPrice       Toexamineincidenceofconsumer            Completedin Fall 1990     $250,000              (BADpaidTineStanounik
Subsidies Study        subsidies and improve their targeting.                                                  S39,000)
5. LivingStandards     Analyze,usingintrasectoralmethods,      Work in progress.         S1,900,000            Establishedpovertyline;
MeasurementSurvey      causality between differentpol icies and  Originally scheduled for                      determined consumption
indicators of living standards.        completion in the MOP                           pattems by income groups;
by 91.                                         developeda povertyprofile in
order to improve targeting
mechanisms for consumer
subsidies.
6. Local Govemment    To examine aspectsof local govemment     Canceled                  $1,400,000            n.a.
DevelopmentStudy       i.e. fiscal resources, local public
accounting, land management,
reorganizationof local public services.
7. PreliminaryStudy    To help the Ministry of Economy and     Completed in June 1991    $1,900,000            No significantimpactsince only
for a National Cadastre   ANC decide on a the type of cadastral                                                S10,033 was spentto perform
coverage for Algeria.                                                                  the studv.



Table 6A: Project Costs
(US$ mtilliolns)
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                           Actual/Latest Estimnate(US$M)
Local            Foreign           Total              Local           Foreign               Total
Item                  Costs              Costs                               Costs            Costs
1. Studies                   2.16             2.27              4.43              na.                2.51                na.
2. MOE Strengthening         4.34              7.88             12.22              na.                9.26               na.
- Training                   0.44              1.20              1.64                                 1.46
- Cadastre                   0.44              1.34              1.78                                 1.50
- Computerization            3.46             5.34               8.80                                6.30
3. BCA Strengthening         0.43             5.67              6.10               n.a.              6.70                n.a.
4. BankingTraining           1.88              1.25             3.13               n.a.               1.50               n.a.
5. Audit Training            1.30             2.02              3.32               n.a.              2.40                n.a.
6. Auditof Enterprises       2.16             4.12              6.28               n.a.              4.85                n.a.
7. RefinancingofPPF           -                1.40              1.40              n.a.                                  n.a.
TOTALBASECOSF               12.27             24.61             36.88              n.a.              24.61               na.
Price & Physical             1.44             2.68              4.12               n.a.              2.68                na.
Contingencies
TOTAL                      13.71             27.29             41.00             n.a.               27.29               n.a.



Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate(US$M)                             Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local            For-eign          Total              Local           Foreign               Total
Source                      Costs              Costs                               Costs            Costs
IBRD/IDA                           -               26.00             26.00        n.a.             n.a.                  n.a.
IMF/UNDP                           -                1.29              1.29        n.a.             n.a.                  n.a.
Government                       13.71               -               13.71         n.a.            n.a.                  n.a.
TOTAL                           13.71             27.29             41.00        n.a.             n.a.                  n.a.



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Sectioll      Covnialt    P'resent      Originial                  Comnctits                                                     Description of Covenanit
Type        Statis      fulrfillaent
datc
3.0 (c)             3,5                                                                           llorrowcr rlecids to SMFl by entering itto a subsidiary loan agreemcnt in (he amount ofl 1,5()0,00(
at an interest rate per annum equal to at least the rate as per Section 2.05, with a commitment charge
set forthi in Section 2.04, and payable within 8 years with a grace period of 3 years.
3.02                3,5          NC                                                               No later than June 30, 1990, and annually thereafler Bank and Borrower meet to review progress on
Project implementation.
3.04 (a) & (b)      3,5           C                                                               The Borrower delegates the responsibility of carrying out the Project to the Directeur Charge des
Relations Econoniiques Exterieures of MOE in concert with the Project Managemenit Group.
4.01 (a), (b),       2            C                                        n1 a.                  Borrower shiall mainitain records and accounts reflecting resources and expenditures of agencies
& (c)                                                                                             carrying out Project. to be furnished to Bank. Also produce separate opinion by auditors as to
reliability of statement of expenditures supporting withdrawals from Loan Account.
5.01 (c)                          PC                                                              Borrower shall suspend operations ofCB or/and CRD.
Schedule 2           tO           C                                                               To carry out a banking training program for Participating Financial Institutions
B.2
Schedule 2                        rO PC                                                           Carrying out an audit training program
10          PC                                                               Carrying out a pilot audit program for about 20/thirty public enterprises, and strengthening the
capabilities of the CRD.
Schedule 2           10           PC                                                              Preparing studies on Borrower's: (i) price systent; (ii) promotiont of notn-traditional exports; (iii) tise
C. I                                                                                              of funds of insurance companies; (iv) incidence of consumer studies; (v) statistical survey
measuring living standards
Schedule 2           10          NC                                                               Preparing studies on: (i) local taxation; (ii) local accounting; (iii) land management; (iv)
C.2                                                                                               reorganization of local public services; and (v) Economic Reform Program
4.01 (b) ii                       C                                                               The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of each year. the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in sticih detail as Itank shall have reasonably
requested.



Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                             Planned                  Revised                 Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks          USS        Weeks         USS       Weeks        USS
Preparation to Appraisal                                                                               133.4       S314.10
Appraisal-Board                                                                                        13.7        S40.0
Negotiations through Board Approval                                                                    17.9        S53.00
Supervision                                                                                            151.9       S413.60
Completion                                                                                             7.0         S20.20
TOTAL                                                                                                 323.9



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
PerformanceRating
Number                              Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of           Month/         of                 Days in        StaffSkills        tation          ment          Typesof
ProjectCycie           Year       Persons                Field        Represented        Status        Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal
LENP                     /l8          4 (Carrere,                                                _              _
Coudol,
Laporte,Roche)
LEN                      /88          1 (Molineus)
LENP                     /89          5 (Carrere,         46.6                                  -               -              -
Coudol, Costa,
Ayub, Ahmed)
Appraisal through                                                                                _              _
Board Approval
LENA                     /90          4 (Cartere,Ayub.   13.6                                   -               -              -
Pleskovic,El-
Naggar)
LENN                     /90          4 (Carrere,Ayub,   4.75                                    _              _
Pleskovic. El-
Naggar)
Supervision
6/30/90     n.a.                                     -                 R               R              R
3/19/91     1 (Carrere)          4 (0.8 S/W     Sr. Operating          3               1          P. M, T, A
refers to        Officer
previous
mission)
01/06/92    2 (Kjellstrom,      1 (0.2 S/W)          1, C              3               2         P. M, T, A, S
Saltoglu)
06/26/92    2 (Kjellstrom,       15 (3 SIW)          1, C              3               2        P. M, T, A, S
Zwanikken)
06/30/92    2 (Kjellstrom,         17 (3.4          1, C              n.a.             2        P, M, T, A, S
Zwanikken)             S/W)
03/17/93    2 (Kjellstrom,        22 (4.4)           1, C             n.a.            2           P, T. A, S
Zwanikken)
06/30/93    2 (Meunier, Kim       43 (8.6)           1, C              2               2          P. T, A, S
Pham)
Completion                11/02196    2 (Ferroukhi,       8              Pr. Energy
Sterling)                          Specialist/
Financial
_____ ____ ____ ____   ___ ____   ___ ____ ____ __   _ ____ ____ A nalyst_ _ _ _ _ _  _



ANNEX
Borrower's Project Evaluation



THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF EXTERNAL FINANCIAL RELATIONS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - LOAN 3176-AL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
October 1996



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I. LOAN HIGHLIGHTS
Signing: September26, 1990
Effective: April 22, 1991
Closing date:
Original: December 31. 1993
I st extension: December 31. 1994
2nd extension: December 31, 1995
Special extension: April 30, 1996
Loan amount: US$26 million
11. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Main obiective: To facilitate implementation of the program of economic reforms, in
particular by:
1.  strengthening managerial, technical and administrative services in the MOE and BA;
2.   strengthening the technical capabilities in the participating financial institutions;
3.   strengthening audit capabilities;
4.  improving international financial management.
III. PROJECT COMPONENTS
SECTION A:
A(l): Preparation and implementation of a training program in MOE (public finance,
accounting, administrative law, etc.);
-    auditing and accounting in connection with the World Bank and IGF;
-    procurement and installation of technical equipment relating to this training program.
A(2):
-    Adaptation and implementation of a computerization program  in MOE (tax
administration, accounting, customs);
-    procurement and installation of data-processing equipment and related materials.
A(3)
-    Completion of a study on the development of the cadastre;
-    procurement and installation of related equipment;
--  procurement of surveying equipment.



2
SECTION B:
B(1): Provision of technical assistance to the BA (computerization system, procurement
and installation of related equipment, procurement of specialized vehicles for transporting
cash, training program, etc.).
B(2): Execution of a training program in banking for staff of financial institutions and
procurement of associated equipment.
B( 3): Strengthening of SIBF capabilities (training, procurement of equipment).
B(4): Implementation of training program in auditing (seminars, etc.), procurement of
associated equipment, and short courses abroad.
B(5):
-    Organization and implementation of a pilot audit program for 20-30 public
enterprises,
-    strengthening of CIEF capabilities.
SECTION C:
C(1):
-    Preparation of studies and statistical survey;
-    survey:
-    on the use of funds by insurance companies;
-    on the incidence of consumer price subsidies;
-    on living standards.
IV. STATUS OF PROJECT BY COMPONENT:
1. Strengthening of MOE
A. CADASTRE
Objective
The cadastre component has been considered closed since 1993, with a performance rate of
100%.
This component was intended:
-    firstly, to furnish the ANC with priority equipment deemed urgently needed for
general cadastre operations:
-    secondly, to conduct a preparatory study for a special World Bank loan to finance the
necessary resources for conducting the general cadastre program country-wide.
Progress Made
The results are deemed appreciable for the following reasons:



3
-   the equipment purchased has expedited field work on the cadastre and made it
possible to computerize operations
-   the study has given rise to a special loan from the World Bank (3488-AL)
implementation of which is now under way.
The amount allocated to this component is US$1,523,490. All the elements in this
component have been performed and disbursed.
Budget Status
Allocated                                                   US$ 1,523,490.00
Disbursed                                                        930,239.56
Balance                                                          593,250.44
B. TRAINING
Obiective: Preparation and implementationof a training program for the staffof MOE, and
procurement and installation of teaching equipment.
Progress Made: The amount disbursed, US$13,485, represents fees paid to Mr. Pierre
Runner of the company Evalude, in connection with his role in drawing up the
documentation for training Ministry staff.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                       US$ 893,000
Disbursed                                                            13,485
Balance                                                             879,515
C. COMPUTERIZATION
Obiective:
Preparation and implementation of a computerization program in connection with the
restructuring of MOE.
Progress Made:
The situation in terms of equipment procurement for each directorate is as follows:



4
C- I Directorate of Taxes
Three computer systems acquired under the loan from the company BULL-SA, for a total
amount before tax of F 6,674,525.
Payment was made in accordance with the contract, as follows:
-    15%/asanadvance(F 1,001,178.75)
-    85% by documentary credit (F 5,673,346.25)
The equipment and supplies (hardware and software) were installed at the regional
information centers in Algiers, Oran and Constantine, and have been operating quite
satisfactorily since February 9, 1994.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                     US$ 1,295,000
Disbursed                                                          1,295,000
Balance                                                                   0
C-2 Directorate of the Budyet
Objective:
- Supply of computer equipment.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                    US$ 300,000.00
Disbursed                                                        316,233.65
Balance                                                           -16,233.65
C-3 Directorate of State Lands
Obiective:
Procurement of computer equipment and software.



5
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                 US$ 1,620,000.00
Disbursed                                                      1,656,848.98
Balance                                                         -36,848.98
C-4 Directorate General of Customs
Loan component not implemented (canceled)
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                    US$ 1,400,000
Disbursed                                                               0
Balance                                                          1,400,000
C-5 Directorate General of External Economic Relations
Objective:
Strengthening of management capacity and capacity for monitoring the portfolio of World
Bank loans through a computerization and training program.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                   US$ 100,000.00
Disbursed                                                        52,943.17
Balance                                                          47,056.83
C-6 Directorate General of Competition and Prices
Objective:
Procurement of computer equipment.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                    US$ 1,050,000
Disbursed                                                        1,073,585
Balance                                                            -23,585



6
C-7 Directorate General of Commercial Organization
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                        US$ 19,800
Disbursed                                                            19,800
Balance                                                                   0
C-8 Central Directorate of the Treasury
Objective:
Preparation of a supplementary study on the master plan for computerizationof MOE.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                         US$ 4,200
Disbursed                                                             1,943
Balance                                                               2,257
C-9 Inspectorate General of Finance
Allocated: US$500,000, broken down as follows:
1. US$300,000for training 30 financial inspectors.
2. US$ 100,000 for the purchase of 12 Fiat vehicles.
3. US$100,000, of which US$50,000 was earmarked for additional training and US$50,000
for seminars that did not take place, which was therefore canceled
The US$400,000 breaks down as follows:
(A) Contract between IGF and Ernst & Young, approved by the ministerial commission on
October 24, 1993 under No. E-06-93
Contract amount: F 1,423,000 (US$300,000), disbursed as follows:
F 143,320 (10% of the contract) on November 27, 1993
F 284,640 (20% of the contract) on November 27, 1993
F 284.640 (20% of the contract) on August 10, 1994
F 284,640 (20% of the contract) on February 7, 1995
F 426,960 (20% of the contract) on March 13, 1995
(B) Contract between IGF and Fiat, signed on December 21, 1993
Contract amount: Lit 163,800,000 (US$100,000)



7
Obiectives:
Training of junior inspectors and upgrading and certification of inspectors currently on
staff, through implementation of a two-year professional training program for
approximately 30 persons, at a cost of about US$10,000 per person.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                         US$ 500,000.00
Disbursed                                                              319,913.25
Balance                                                                180,086.75
C- 10 National Finance Institute
Obiective:
Implementation of a training program in auditing, including seminars for approximately
400 external auditors, 1,000 internal auditors and 65 trainers; procurement and installation
of training materials; and short courses abroad for trainers.
Status of Implementatiorn
It was not possible to carry out the work program covering training and procurement of
training materials.
Budg,et Status:
Allocated                                                          US$ 2.390,000
Disbursed                                                                      0
Balance                                                                 2,390,000
Since CNP failed to release payment credits for INF contracts in a timely manner, before
the loan closing date of December 31, 1994, the contracts could not be concluded
successfully.
C-l l SIBF
Obiective:
Implementation of a banking training program for the staff of the participating financial
institutions, including seminars and workshops, and procurement of training materials.



8
Status of lmplementatior
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                   US$ 650,000.00
Disbursed                                                       481,287.09
Balance                                                         168,712.91
C- 12 CIEF (Engineering and Financial Evaluation and Appraisal Center)
(a)  Pilot program of audits of 23 public enterprises.
Obiective:
To organize and carry out a pilot program of audits of 23 public (autonomous) enterprises
and. based on the conclusions and recommendations of the audits. draw up a manual of
auditing procedures for public enterprises.
Status of Implementatiorr
Item        Authorized     Contractual   Final Execution   Unexpended
Amount      Commitments                      Balance
Pilot audit         4,000,000      3,556,649      3,258,126        741,871
(Phase 1)
Operational         1,097,515       110,600         121,047        976,468
audit (Phase 2)
Equipment            280,000         198,837        186,364         93,636
Total               5,377,515      3,866,086      3,565,537      1,811,978
Budget Status:
AllocatedUS53751
Disbursed                                                        3,565,537
Balance                                                          1,811,978
C- 13 SOFIN (Societe de Services Financiers et d'Investissement)
Status of Implementatiorr
The following work has been completed:



9
(i) participation by two employees in a course organized by Banque Nationale de Paris
(US$15,488.14); (ii) training program (US$8,050); (iii) purchase of vehicles
(US$39,739.09). A total of US$63,277.23 has been disbursed.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                   US$ 63,277.23
Disbursed                                                       63,277.23
Balance                                                                0
C-14 BA
(a) Mandates:
-    to improve the banks' accounting systems;
-    to carry out training programs in the following areas: money market management,
foreign services management, international financial management, risk assessment;
-    to carry out a training program intended for certain individuals in BA and the
participating financial institutions and for staff in other agencies, in order to
strengthen their skills in the following areas: risk management and international
financial management;
-    to design jointly a program for computerizing BA, and an information system for the
financial sector;
-    to purchase and install computer equipment and related materials;
-    to purchase and install equipment for monitoring fiduciary assets and purchasing
specialized vehicles for transporting cash
Component          Allocated         Disbursed          Balance
- Computerization            875,000        775,000.00         100,000.00
- Communications             157,365        157,365.00                 0
- External Debt              100,370        105,109.52          -4,739.52
- Cash Management           6,603,000      6,489,542.19        113,457.81
Total, including PPF        7,735,735      7,527,016.71        208,718.29
(1)  Computerization
Obiective: Joint design of a program for computerizing BA and a system for automating
the financial sector, through the procurement and installation of software programs and
packages.



10
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                     US$ 875,000
Disbursed                                                         775,000
Balance                                                           100,000
(2) Directorate of Communications
Objective: Financing the services of the consultant Corm in connection with BA's in-house
training system. The financing of US$157,365 was drawn on the PPF.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                     US$ 157,365
Disbursed                                                         157,365
Balance                                                                 0
(3) External Debt Management
Obiective: Training for 16 staff members from the External Financing and Contracts
Directorate (DMFE), at the Institut des Hautes Etudes Commerciales in Montreal. The
training program for DMFE officers took place in July 1991, for a total cost of US$100,370.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                  US$ 100,370.00
Disbursed                                                       105,109.52
Balance                                                          -4,739.52
(4) Cash Management / Printing Facilities
Objective:  Procurement and installation of equipment for handling fiduciary assets
(equipment for sorting and processing bank notes, specialized vehicles for transporting
cash, and equipment for destroying bank notes).
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                 US$ 6,352,000.00
Disbursed                                                     6,489,542.19
Balance                                                        -137,542.19



11
Budget Status for Overall BA Component
Allocated                                                  US$ 7,735,735.00
Disbursed                                                      7,527,016.71
Balance                                                          208,718.29
C-15 ONS
Objective: Preparation of study and statistical survey on living standards.
Status of Implementation
As yet, no work has been completed under this component.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                      US$ 750,000
Disbursed                                                                0
Balance                                                            750,000
C-16 CREAD/CNP
Obiective:
Preparation of a study on the incidence of consumer subsidies in Algeria.
Progress Made:
The study was completed in 1990 at a cost of US$39,000.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                       US$ 39,000
Disbursed                                                           39,000
Balance                                                                  0
C-17 Insurance
The Central Directorate of the Treasury financed this study using a different source of
funding, in an amount of US$160,000.



12
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Summary of Applications of Loan Proceeds
Component            Allocated       Disbursed        Balance
DGREE                         100,000.00       52,943.17       47,056.83
Cadastre                    1,523,490.00      930,239.56      593,250.44
Training                     893,000.00        13,485.00      879,515.00
Computerization:            5,689,000.00    4,363,410.63     1,325,589.37
Taxes Directorate           1,295,000.00    1,295,000.00              0
Budget Directorate           300,000.00       316,233.65       -16,233.65
State Lands Dir.            1,620,000.00    1,656,848.98       -36,848.98
Competition& Prices         1,050,000.00     1,073,585.00      -23,585.00
Commercial Org. Dir.           19,800.00       19,800.00              0
Customs Directorate         1,400,000.00              0      1,400,000.00
Expertise                      4,200.00         1,943.00        2,257.00
IGF                          500,000.00       319,913.25      180,086.75
INF                         2,390,000.00              0      2,390,000.00
SIBF                         650,000.00       481,287.09      168,712.91
CIEF                        5,377.515.00    3,565,537.00     1,811,978.00
BA:                         7.735,735.00    7,527,016.71      208,718.29
Computerization              875,000.00       775,000.00      100,000.00
Communications                157,365.00      157,365.00              0
Debt                          100,370.00      105,109.52        -4,739.52
Cash Management             6,603,000.00    6,489,542.19      113,457.81
CREAD/CNP studies             39,000.00        39,000.00              0
SOFIN                         63,277.23        63,277.23              0
Insurance studies             160,000.00              0        160,000.0
ONS                          750,000.00               0       750,000.00
Managementfees                 12,300.80       12,300.80              0
Unallocated                   116,681.97              0       116,681.97
TOTAL                      26,000,000.00    17,368,410.44    8,631,589.56



13
New components, using the balance of the loan:
1. National Planning Council
Obi ective: Procurement of computer equipment and office technology.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                      US$ 522,000
lDisbursed                                                         522,000|
lBalance                                                                 0
II. Ministry of Housing
Obiective: Preparation and provision of studies and services for implementing a program to
restructure the eight so-called "strategic" enterprises, six of which fall under the Ministry of
Housing and one each under the Ministries of Infrastructure, Land Use, and Transportation.
The contract amount in the contractual currency (US$) is as follows:
Transferable portion in F    Nontransferableportion in  Transferable portion
DA
9,387,694                4,450,000              1,899,234.20
Amount disbursed: US$2,000,000.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                    US$ 2,000,000
Disbursed                                                        2,000,000
Balance                                                                 0
III. Ministry of Industrial Restructuring and Participation
Status of IBRD Loan 3176-AL
Procurement items:
Procurement of 22 Macintosh computers:
Amount of contracts signed: F 203,940
Amount of contracts pending:



14
Amount of contracts not completed:
Amount disbursed: US$ 40,561.13
Amount undisbursed:
Date of settlement by BIA: March 14. 1995
Remarks: 100% financing
Purchase of Rank Xerox machine:
Amount of contracts signed: DA 5,142.500
Amount of contracts pending:
Amount of contracts not completed:
Amount disbursed: US$121,174
Amount undisbursed:
Date of settlement: March 14, 1995
Remarks: 50% financing
Purchase of eight photocopiers:
Amount of contracts signed: F 153,500
Amount of contracts not completed:
Amount of contracts pending:
Amount disbursed: US$ 31,615.09
Amount undisbursed:
Date of settlement: April 24, 1995
Remarks: 100% financing
Budget Status:
|Allocated                             |US$ 193,350.22
Disbursed                                                            72,176.22 
Balance                                                                121,174
IV. New subcomponents for BA:
IVa. Audit of bank financial statements
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                      US$ 599,280.37
Disbursed                                                           599,280.37
Balance                                                                      0
IVb. General Directorate
Obi ective: Procurement of computer equipment and software.



15
Status of Implementation Three contracts have been signed with the following suppliers:
HP-RTI for the supply of computer hardware and software in an amount of
approximately US$263,277 before tax;
-    HP-RTI for the supply of a server in an amount of approximately US$62,014 before
tax:
DIGITAL for the supply of 100 PC 486 computers with accompanying equipment
for an amount of approximately US$143,040 before tax.
Budget Status:
Allocated                                                       US$ 468,331
Disbursed                                                           468,3310
Balance                                                                   0
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF NEW COMPONENTS: Summary
Component         Contract amount  Amount disbursed    New balance
BA:                         1,067,611.37      1,067,611.37                0
Bank audits                 599,280.37         599,280.37                0
General Directorate         468,331.00         468,331.00                0
Ministry of Housing           2,000,000         2,000,000                 0
Min. of Ind. Restr.          193,350.22         72,176.22           121,174
Nat. Plan. Council              522,000           522,000                 0
TOTAL                      3,782,961.59       3,661,787.59          121,174
Balance: US$8,631,589.56
After the new components have been allocated for a disbursement amount of
US$3.661,787.59,the new balance is US$4,969.801.97.
CONCLUSION:
Start-up of the project was very slow, with several participants involved.
The loan closing date was maintained as December 31, 1994 for all components except for
the activities indicated below, for which the closing date was extended to December 31,
1995:
-    the ONS study on living standards;



16
-    preparation by the Ministry of Housing of plans for restructuring eight enterprises in
the areas of housing, transportation and facilities, for which the Ministry is executing
agency:
preparation of the audit of Algerian banks, for which BA is the executing agency;
eligibility of contracts signed before December 31, 1994 for the procurement of
computer equipment and office materials, using the loan proceeds.
For three contracts (INF. BA. and Ministry of Finance), a special extension was obtained to
April 30, 1996 to allow them to be charged to the balance of the loan, which stood at
US$8.23 million as of December 31, 1995.
Payment credits were not released by CNP for the INF contracts for the supply of computer
equipment, office technology and software in an amount of approximately US$232,755
before tax. The same is true of the Ministry of Finance with respect to the supplier Canon-
Sabi for the supply of three Xerox photocopiers in an amount of approximately
US$109,000 before tax. These two contracts were therefore not concluded successfully.
Only the BA contracts with the suppliers HP-RTI and DIGITAL, in a total amount of
US$468,331 before tax, will be completed.
As regards implementation, the following was observed:
Processing of the loan was inadequate and use of the proceeds was slow, leading to
several postponements of the closing date to allow for disbursement of the balance.
On both sides. a number of changes took place among the staff responsible for
implementation.
No appraisal documents were available at the outset.
Some Algerian operators were not familiar with IBRD procedures.






IMAGING
Report No.:        1642Q
Type:    ICR



