Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CANADIAN GRANT RELATED TO
LOAN NUMBER 3176 AL
Canadian Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Technical Assistance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Canadian Contribution
provided by the
Government of Canada
Dated December 15, 1990
CANADIAN GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3176 AL
CANADIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the "Beneficiary") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as administrator (the "Administrator") of the Contribution (as hereinafter 
defined) provided by the Government of Canada ("Canada").
      WHEREAS (A) the Beneficiary has requested the assistance of Canada in financing 
part of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan 
Agreement") entered into by and between the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria on September 26, 1990;
      WHEREAS (B) by an agreement dated December 10, 1990, between Canada and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Contribution  Agreement"), 
Canada has requested the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has accepted, to administer 
an amount of two hundred fifty-five thousand Canadian dollars (Can$255,000) (the 
"Contribution") in accordance with the provisions of the Contribution Agreement; and
      WHEREAS (C) the Beneficiary acknowledges that the financial assistance extended 
to the Beneficiary under this Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by Canada to the Beneficiary;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
      (a)   the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Contribution pursuant to 
the Contribution Agreement between Canada and the Bank referred to in Recital (B) of 
this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
      (b)   the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Beneficiary;
      (c)   the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
      (d)   the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Contribution;
      (e)   the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, shall be 
amended to read the T Account;
      (f)   the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance activities described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (g)   Section 4.01. shall be modified to read
"Withdrawals from the T Account shall be made in Canadian dollars; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Contribution have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Beneficiary, purchase such currency 
with 
the proceeds of such withdrawal.";
      (h)   Sections 2.01 (5), (7), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17) and (19), 3.02, 
3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 6.02 (a)(i), 6.02 
(g), 6.02 (h), 6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.01 (b), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.01, 12.02, 
12.03, 12.04 and 12.05 are deleted;
      (i)   The second and third sentences of Section 4.09 are deleted; and
      (j)   All references to "the Guarantor," wherever such term is used in the 
General Conditions, shall not apply to this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, 
and the term "T-Account" means the account opened in the Bank of Canada in the name of 
the International Development Association to which the amount of the Contribution is 
credited.
ARTICLE II
The Contribution
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Beneficiary, on the 
terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a Contribution in an amount of 
up to two hundred fifty-five thousand Canadian dollars (Can$255,000), or such other 
amount as shall have been made available by Canada to the Administrator for this 
purpose pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Contribution may be withdrawn from the 
T-Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of services and related expenses required for the Project 
Page  3
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Contribution.
      (b)   Promptly after the effectiveness of this Agreement, the Bank shall 
withdraw from the Contribution an amount equivalent to two percent (2%) of the amount 
of the Contribution to be utilized to defray the administrative and other expenses of 
the Bank in administering the Project, as well as a lump sum of one thousand five 
hundred Canadian dollars (Can$1,500) to cover the cost of an external audit of the 
T-Account, all as specified in the budget set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts for 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Contribution shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Beneficiary of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Sections 3.01, 4.01 
and 5.01 of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the 
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that 
all references in said sections to "the Bank" shall be deemed to be references to the 
Bank acting as Administrator of the Contribution under this Agreement, all references 
to the "Loan" and the "Loan Account" shall be deemed to be references to the 
Contribution and the T-Account, respectively, and all references to the Borrower shall 
be deemed to be references to the Beneficiary.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon the effectiveness of 
the Contribution Agreement and shall continue in effect until termination of the 
Contribution Agreement, or until the Contribution has been fully disbursed and the 
parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder, whichever occurs 
first.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of Rights
and Obligations
      Section 5.01. The Minister of the Beneficiary at the time responsible for 
Economy shall be the representative of the Beneficiary for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Beneficiary:
            Ministry of Economy
            Immeuble Mauretania
            Place du Perou
            Algiers
            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINPLAN                 67073
                  Algiers
      For the Administrator:
            International Bank for
                    Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTTC)
      Section 5.03. In accordance with the Contribution Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to Canada. 
The Beneficiary accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Beneficiary to that effect, Canada shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this 
Agreement as if Canada had been an original party to this Agreement, without any 
further action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, and in Algiers, 
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria as of the day and year first above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                  By
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                   AND DEVELOPMENT
                   as Administrator of the Canadian
                   Contribution provided by the
                   Government of Canada
                        By
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Contribution
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Contribution to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Contribution
                               Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Can$ Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                 248,400        100% of the amount
    services,                                   due pursuant to
    including                                   Section 2.02 (a) of
    supervision,                                this Agreement
    transportation
    and accomoda-
    tions of
    trainees
(2) Administration                 5,100        100% of the amount
Page  5
    fee                                         due pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02 (b) of
                                                this Agreement
(3) Auditing                       1,500        100% of the amount
                                                due pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02. (b) of
                                                this Agreement
         TOTAL                   255,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
   The Project will last a maximum of one (1) year, and will make resources of the 
Centre for International Business Studies available to the Central Bank of Algeria so 
that a brief project can be conducted offering adapted training. The main activities 
planned are participant selection, training and follow-up.
   The Project's objective is to train individuals so that they will be able to take 
charge of the Beneficiary's interventions on international capital markets.
         (I)   Selection of Participants
         The Project will train about twenty (20) participants from the Central Bank 
of Algeria, other banks, the ministry and a number of Algerian companies. The 
Beneficiary's authorities will pre-select the participants, and then two (2) members 
of the training team will travel to Algiers to make the final selection.
         (II)  Training
         The training will last five (5) to six (6) weeks, and will take place in 
Montreal, Canada. The three (3) objectives of the training are
         (a)   to help participants acquire an understanding of various international 
financial instruments;
         (b)   to expand the participants' knowledge of the principles of financial 
management of companies and institutions; and
         (c)   to develop the participants' ability to manage the risks inherent to 
interventions in international capital markets.
         (III) Follow-up
         This phase is intended to round out the training received in Canada, and will 
take place in Algeria.
         Trainers will travel to Algeria for a final seminar, which will be designed 
to:
         (a)   answer questions raised by the Participants; and
         (b)   report on changes in the markets over the previous two (2) months.
* * *
   The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1991.
