Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3176 AL
Loan Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 26, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3176 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)   "Economic Reform Program" means the Borrower's program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural reform of the Borrower's 
economy, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, dated October 17, 1989, 
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for an Economic Reform Support Loan 
(Loan No. 3117-AL);
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 
17, 1989 and January 8, 1990 between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (d)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy (Ministere de l'Economie);
      (e)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banque Centrale 
d'Algerie), established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 62/144, dated December 13, 
1962;
      (f)   "CRD" means the Center for Research and Development (Centre de Recherche 
et de Developpement) to be established and maintained by the Borrower pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
      (g)   "SIBF" means the Inter-Bank Training Company (Societe InterBancaire de 
Formation), established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. -, dated 1 19_;
      (h)   "Participating Financial Institutions" means the Borrower's following 
seven commercial/development banks: Banque Algerienne de Developpement, established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 71/47, dated June 30, 1971; Banque de 
l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural, established pursuant to the Borrower's Notary 
Act of Algiers, dated February 19, 1989; Banque du Developpement Local., established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Notary Act of Cherchell, dated February 20, 1989; Banque 
Exterieure d'Algerie, established pursuant to the Borrower's Notary Act of El Harrach, 
dated February 5, 1989; Banque Nationals d'Algerie, established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Notary Act of Algiers, dated February 14, 1989; Caisse Nationale d'Epargne 
et de Prevoyance, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 64/227, dated August 
10, 1964; and Credit Populaire d'Algerie, established pursuant to the Borrower's 
Notary Act of Algiers, dated February 22, 1989; and
      (i)   "Dinars" means the unit of currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-six million dollars 
($26,000,000) as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
            (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
            (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
I and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A, B (1) , B (4), B (5), and C of the Project through the agencies or 
Page  4
entities listed in subparagraph (b) (i) of this Section, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and accounting 
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   (i)
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
following agencies or entities shall participate in the carrying 
out of the stated corresponding part or parts of the Project:
MOE:
Parts A, B (4) and C of the Project;
 
         Central Bank:
Part B (1) of the Project; and
 
                  CRD:
Part B (5) of the Project.
 
            (ii)
The Borrower shall enter into agreements, or make arrangements, as 
the case may be, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of such 
agencies or entities providing for their respective obligations in 
the carrying out of such parts of the Project, and shall make 
available to such agencies and entities the part of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated for the carrying out of such parts of the 
Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend to SIBF the proceeds of the Loan required for 
carrying out Parts B (2) and B (3) of the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement 
(the SIBF Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and SIBF, 
as follows: the Borrower shall relend part of said proceeds of the Loan to SIBF by 
means of a loan in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million 
five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000), for purposes of carrying out Parts B (2) 
and B (3) of the Project under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank, including, inter alia:
            (i)
said loan shall be denominated in dollars and repaid by SIBF to 
the Borrower in Dinars, at least semi-annually at the official 
rate of exchange as determined by the Central Bank on the 
respective dates on which the proceeds of the loan are repaid by 
SIBF;
            (ii)
SIBF shall pay interest on the principal amount of said loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per 
annum,equal to at least the rate determined pursuant to Section 
2.05 of this Agreement;
            (iii)
SIBF shall pay to the Borrower the commitment charge set forth in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, allocable to the part of the 
proceeds of the Loan relent to but not withdrawn by SIBF; and
            (iv)
SIBF shall repay said loan over a period not to exceed eight (8) 
years, including a grace period of three (3) years.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the SIBF Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the SIBF Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance 
with an implementation program mutually agreed upon and regularly updated by the 
Borrower and the Bank. Not later than June 30, 1990, and at least once annually 
thereafter, representatives of the Borrower and the Bank shall meet to review the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Project and to review and update the said 
implementation program.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, services and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Page  5
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Director of Exterior 
Economic Relations (Directeur Charge des Relations Economiques Exterieures) of the MOE 
shall at all times have the overall responsibility for carrying out the Project, and 
shall be assisted by the Project Management Group, referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section.
      (b)   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, in a form and with 
functions and terms of reference all satisfactory to the Bank, a Project Management 
Group to assist the Director of Exterior Economic Relations of the MOE, referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, in respect of the overall responsibility for carrying 
out the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall ensure, or cause to be ensured, that the said Director 
of Exterior Economic Relations shall prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual 
reports, of such scope and in such detail as both the Borrower and the Bank shall 
agree, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure, or cause to be ensured, that the end 
beneficiaries of the audit training program activities under Part B (4) of the Project 
shall at all times bear the cost incurred by the Borrower in respect of such 
activities, said costs to be determined in accordance with a methodology and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.06 The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, or shall 
cause to be established and thereafter maintained, in a form and with functions and 
terms of reference all satisfactory to the Bank, a Center for Research and Development 
(the CRD) for purposes of carrying out Part B (5) of the Project, and shall ensure, or 
cause to be ensured, that a Director, possessing the requisite qualifications and 
experience, is appointed to head the CRD.
      Section 3.07. For purposes of promoting the viability of SIBF and supervising 
the carrying out of Parts B (2) and B (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
SIBF to appoint, not later than September 30, 1990, an Administrator possessing the 
requisite qualifications and experience.
      Section 3.08. Not later than June 30, 1990, the Borrower shall ensure, or cause 
to be ensured, that the public enterprises referred to in Part B (5) of the Project 
shall have been selected.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the agencies 
or entities responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
            (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)
Furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  6
            (ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
            (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
            (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
      (a)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the MOE, or the Central Bank, or the CRD will be able to carry out any of its 
respective part or parts of the Project;
      (b)   Law No. 62/144, dated December 13, 1963, establishing the Central Bank, 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Central Bank to carry out its respective 
part of the Project; and
      (c)   The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Central Bank or the CRD, or 
for the suspension of the operations of any one or both of them.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) 
and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period 
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the SIBF Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and SIBF.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, with-in the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the SIBF Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the 
Borrower and SIBF in accordance with its terms and conditions.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy
            Immeuble Mauretania
            Place du Perou
            Algiers
            Democratic and Popular Republic
              of Algeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINPLAN                 67073
                  Algiers
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
      Cable address:                      Telex:
            INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
            Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                  By /s/ Ghazi Hidoue
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ K. Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and
    materials
    (including
    vehicles):
Page  8
    (a)  under                   170,000
         Parts B (2)
         and B(3)
         of the
         Project
    (b)  under                   280,000        100% of foreign
         Part B (4)                             expenditures and
         of the                                 55% of local
         Project                                expenditures
    (c)  under                   150,000
         Part B (5)
         of the
         Project
    (d)  under                11,200,000
         Parts A,
         B (1) and C
         of the
         Project
(2) Consultants'
    services:
    (a)  under                 1,200,000
         Parts B (2)
         and B (3)
         of the
         Project
    (b)  under                 1,980,000
         Part B (4)
         of the
         Project
    (c)  under                 4,600,000        100% of total
         Part B (5)                             expenditures
         of the
         Project
    (d)  under                 4,970,000
         Parts A,
         B (1),
         B (3) and C
         of the
         Project
(3) Refunding of               1,450,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
         TOTAL                26,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c) of the table in 
paragraph 1 above, unless the Borrower shall have complied with its obligations under 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are, in general, to facilitate the implementation 
of the Economic Reform Program and, in particular, to: (i) strengthen the managerial, 
technical and administrative capabilities of the MOE and Central Bank; (ii) strengthen 
the technical capabilities of the Participating Financial Institutions in key areas 
(iii) strengthen the auditing and capabilities of the Borrower; and (iv) improve the 
Borrower's international finance management capabilities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
      (1)   (i) Preparing and carrying out a training program for selected MOE 
personnel to strengthen their capabilities in, inter alia, the following areas: public 
finance; administrative, civil and commercial law, and related procedures; and 
accounting; and (ii) acquiring and installing technical equipment, and acquiring 
vehicles in connection with said training program.
      (2)   (i) Preparing and carrying out a computerization program in respect of MOE 
operations, principally in the following areas: fiscal administration; accounting; 
land administration; budgetary management; and expenditure control; and (ii) acquiring 
and installing data processing equipment and related material in connection therewith.
      (3)   (i) Preparing a study on the cadastral development of the Borrower's 
territory; (ii) acquiring and installing data processing and related computerized 
tracing equipment; and (iii) acquiring topographical survey equipment.
Part B:
      (1)   Providing technical assistance to the Central Bank for, inter alia: (i) 
improving its banking accounting systems; (ii) carrying out training programs for 
selected Central Bank managerial staff to strengthen their capabilities in, inter 
alia: money market management; foreign assets management; international finance  
management; and risk evaluation; (iii) carrying out a training program for selected 
personnel of the Central Bank and the Participating Financial Institutions, and other 
personnel, to strengthen their capabilities in the following areas: risk
management; and international finance management; (iv) designing jointly a Central 
Bank computerization program and a financial sector information system; (v) acquiring 
and installing computer equipment and related material; and (vi) acquiring and 
installing money handling and control equipment, and acquiring money transport 
vehicles.
      (2)   Carrying out a banking training program for selected personnel of the 
Participating Financial Institutions, including providing workshops and seminars, and 
acquiring training equipment in connection therewith.
      (3)    Strengthening the capabilities of the SIBF in, inter alia, preparing and 
carrying out banking training activities, and acquiring material related to such 
strengthening.
      (4)    Carrying out an audit training program, including seminars, for about 
four hundred (400) external auditors, one thousand (1,000) internal auditors and 
sixty-five (65) audit trainers, including acquiring and installing training equipment 
in connection therewith, and providing internships abroad for external audit trainers.
      (5)   (i) Organizing and carrying out, or causing to be carried out, a pilot 
audit program for about twenty (20) or thirty (30) public enterprises and, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of such audits, developing a procedural audit 
manual for public enterprises; and (ii) strengthening the capabilities of the CRD.
Part C:
      (1)   Preparing the following studies and statistical survey: (i) a study on the 
Borrower's price system; (ii) a study on promoting the Borrower's non-traditional 
exports; (iii) a study on the use of funds of insurance companies operating in the 
Borrower's territory; (iv) a study on the incidence of consumer subsidies in the 
Borrower's territory; and (v) a statistical survey measuring living standards in the 
Page  10
Borrower's territory.
      (2)   Preparing the following studies: (i) a study on local taxation; (ii) a 
study on local accounting; (iii) a study on land management; (iv) a study on the 
reorganization of local public services; and (v) other studies related to the Economic 
Reform Program, which studies shall be agreed upon jointly by the Borrower and the 
Bank.
*  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 1 and October 1
      beginning October 1, 1995
      through  April 1, 2005                    
1,300,000
 
