Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CANADIAN CONTRIBUTION RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3176 AL
Contribution Agreement
between
GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
(Relating to the Administration of a Canadian
Contribution for the financing of the
Technical Assistance Project in the
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria)
Dated December 10, 1990
CANADIAN CONTRIBUTION RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3176 AL
CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT
      This Contribution Agreement made in duplicate on this day of December 10, 1990.
BETWEEN:
The Government of Canada, herein represented by the Secretary of State 
for External Affairs, acting through the Canadian International Development Agency 
(hereinafter referred to as "CIDA");
AND:
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter referred 
to as the "Bank").
      WHEREAS by an agreement dated September 26, 1990 (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Loan Agreement"), between the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Beneficiary") and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Beneficiary in an amount equivalent to US$26,000,000 to assist in the financing of 
a Technical Assistance Project designed to strengthen the capabilities of the 
Beneficiary's Ministry of Economy, Central Bank and of selected financial 
institutions, to strengthen the auditing capabilities of the Beneficiary and to 
improve its international finance management capabilities;
      WHEREAS CIDA has informed the Bank that it desires to participate in the 
Page  2
financing of part of said project by providing funds to be administrated by the Bank, 
to finance the carrying out of a training program relating to external debt management 
activities described in Appendix "A" hereto (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Project");
      AND WHEREAS the purpose of this Contribution Agreement (hereinafter called the 
"Agreement") between the Bank and CIDA is to set out the terms and conditions 
concerning the administration of such contribution and the implementation of the 
Project;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
      Section 1.01. The Project shall consist of the component of the Technical 
Assistance Project described in Annex A to this Agreement (said component being 
hereinafter also referred to as the "Project").
      Section 1.02. The Project shall not be modified without the written consent of 
CIDA.
      Section 1.03. CIDA hereby appoints the Bank as Administrator of a contribution 
of funds in an amount of two hundred fifty-five thousand Canadian dollars 
(Can$255,000) (hereinafter referred to as the "Contribution") in the following manner:
      (a)   Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, CIDA shall deposit an initial 
advance amount of two hundred forty-two thousand two hundred and fifty Canadian 
dollars (Can$242,250) into the The Account of the International Development 
Association maintained with the Bank of Canada (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Account").
      (b)   A second advance of up to twelve thousand seven hundred and fifty Canadian 
dollars (Can$12,750) will be made by CIDA not later than April 30, 1991 conditional 
upon receipt of a cash forecast statement estimating funds required for the following 
three months period and receipt of the statement of account for the preceding advance 
in accordance with Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The Bank shall indicate clearly on its request for funds to CIDA the 
following information:
            Commitment No. 110412
            Supplier Code S15041
      (d)   The funds will be kept separate and apart from the funds of the Bank.  The 
funds may be commingled with other trust fund ssets maintained in the Account.
      (e)   The Bank may invest the funds pending their disbursement.  The income 
therefrom shall be added to the Account and thereafter be available for the same 
purpose as said funds.  The Bank will disburse or arrange for the disbursement of such 
funds to pay for the reasonable costs of services and other expenses eligible for 
financing and, for this purpose, the Bank may exchange the funds in the Account for 
other currencies.
      Section 1.04. It is understood between CIDA and the Bank that a portion of the 
Contribution in an amount equivalent to two percent (2%) of the amount of the 
Contribution will be utilized to defray the administrative and other expenses of the 
Bank in administering the Project as well as a lump sum of one thousand five hundred 
Canadian dollars (Can$1,500) to cover the cost of an external audit of the Account, 
all as specified in the budget set forth in Annex 3 to this Agreement.  CIDA hereby 
authorizes the Bank to transfer to itself, the 2% fee upon effectiveness of the 
Contribution and the appropriate amount for audit when it is due.
      Section 1.05. If unforeseen increases in expenditures or commitments are 
expected or realized (whether due to inflationary factors, fluctuation in exchange 
rates or unforeseen contingencies) the Bank shall notify CIDA, in writing, of this 
fact, and of the estimated amount of the increases in expenditures or commitments, as 
soon as possible.  CIDA will consider whether it will agree to
increase the amount of the Contribution to cover said increases in expenditures or 
commitments.
Page  3
      Section 1.06. Whenever the events described in Section 1.05 of this Agreement 
occur, and an additional contribution is not forthcoming, CIDA and the Bank may agree 
to reduce the scope of the Project or suspend or terminate this Agreement.
ARTICLE Il
      Section 2.01. The Contribution shall be administered by the Bank solely for the 
purpose of paying the fees of consultants, cost of services and other related expenses 
required for the Project, as more fully described in Annex B and the expenses 
described in Sections 1.04, 3.01 and 4.05 of this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. The Bank shall disburse from the Account such amounts as from time 
to time shall be needed to meet the reasonable costs of services and other expenses 
financed or to be financed for the purposes of the Project, and as more fully 
described in Annex B. Such disbursements shall be effected in accordance with the 
Bank's normal procedures.
      Section 2.03. The Bank, as Administrator on behalf of CIDA, shall have the sole 
responsibility for the administration of the Contribution and for the supervision of 
the Project, and shall keep CIDA informed of the progress of the Project.
      Section 2.04. The Bank shall exercise the same care in the discharge of its 
functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration and 
management of its own affairs, and shall have no further responsibility to CIDA in 
respect thereof.
      Section 2.05. The Bank shall enter into such arrangements with the Beneficiary 
as is necessary to ensure the successful implementation of the Project.
      Section 2.06. The Bank and CIDA shall consult from time to time at the request 
of each other on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
      Section 3.01. The Bank shall:
      (a)   maintain separate records and accounts in respect of the funds in the 
Account and those disbursed by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, 
and the Bank shall furnish at least quarterly to CIDA a statement of account on such 
records and accounts;
      (b)   cause such accounts and records to be audited and certified by the Bank's 
external auditors on project completion and furnish the report of such audit by said 
auditors to CIDA.  The cost of such external audit will be paid out from the 
Contribution; and
      (c)   provide to CIDA, at the end of the Project, an evaluation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
all disbursements have been made from the Account.
      Section 4.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purpose of this 
Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, this Agreement 
may be terminated at the initiative of such party ninety (90) days after giving notice 
in writing to that effect.
      Section 4.03. If at any time it appears that funds of the Contribution were not 
used for the purposes of the Project in accordance with this Agreement, CIDA may 
suspend further payments and cancel an equivalent amount from the Contribution.
      Section 4.04. Notwithstanding the termination, completion or suspension of this 
Agreement, the Bank shall continue to hold, and draw from unutilized funds of the  
Contribution until the earlier of: the satisfaction of all commitments incurred for 
the Project prior to the date of termination, completion or suspension of this 
Agreement; or the filing of the report required under Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
      Section 4.05. Promptly after termination or expiry of this Agreement, the Bank 
shall furnish to CIDA a final financial report and a financial statement on the 
Account, together with an opinion of the Bank's external auditors on such statement.  
Page  4
The cost of obtaining such opinion from the external auditors shall be paid out from 
the Contribution.
      Section 4.06. All unutilized funds of the Contribution shall be returned by the 
Bank, through CIDA, to the Receiver General of Canada.
ARTICLE V
      Section 5.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
      Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegraph cable or 
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
      For CIDA H.Q.:
            Canadian International Development Agency
            200 Promenade d Portage
            Hull, Quebec
            KlA OG4
            Canada
                                            Telex:
                                            053-4140
                                            Fax:
                                            (891) 953-9453
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for Reconstruction
              and Development
            Attn: Task Manager (EM2IE)
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
ARTICLE VI
      Section 6.01. This Agreement, together with Annexes A and B which form an 
integral part hereof, constitute the entire Agreement between CIDA and the Bank with 
respect to the Project.
ARTICLE VII
      Section 7.01. No member of the Canadian House of Commons shall be admitted to 
any share or part of this Agreement or to any benefit to arise therefrom.
      Section 7,02.  Any payment to be made by CIDA under this Agreement is subject to 
there being an appropriation by the Canadian Parliament for the fiscal year in which 
the payment is to be made.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorized thereto, have signed 
the present Agreement in duplicate.
Page  5
            FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
            Bruno Hebert
            Canadian International Development Agency
            Name:       Bruno Hebert
            Title:      Director General
            Title:
            Date:       December 1o, 1990
            FOR THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
              AND DEVELOPMENT
            Kemal Dervis
            Name:       Kemal Dervis
            Title:      Director, Maghreb Department
            Date:       December 10, 1990
ANNEX A
Description of the Project
      The Project will last a maximum of one (1) year, and will make resources of the 
Centre for International Business Studies available to the Central Bank of Algeria so 
that a brief project can be conducted offering adapted training.  The main activities 
planned are participant selection, training and follow-up.
      The Project's objective is to train individuals so that they will be able to 
take charge of the Beneficiary's interventions on international capital markets.
      (I)   Selection of Participants
            The Project will train about twenty (20) participants from the Central 
Bank of Algeria, other banks, the ministry and a number of Algerian companies.  The 
Beneficiary's authorities will pre-select the participants, and then two (2) members 
of the training team will travel to Algiers to make the final selection.
      (II)  Training
            The training will last five (5) to six (6) weeks, and will take place in 
Montreal, Canada.  The three (3) objectives of the training are
            (a)   to help participants acquire an understanding of various 
inter-national financial instruments;
            (b)   to expand the participants' knowledge of the principles of financial 
management of companies and institutions; and
            (c)   to develop the participants' ability to manage the risks inherent to 
interventions in international capital markets.
      (III)  Follow-up
            This phase is intended to round out the training received in Canada, and 
will take place in Algeria.
            Trainers will travel to Algeria for a final seminar, which will be 
designed to:
            (a)   answer questions raised by the Participants; and
Page  6
            (b)   report on changes in the markets over the previous two (2) months.
 *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1991.
ANNEX B
      Proceeds of the Contribution shall be allocated as set forth hereinbelow:
                             Amount of the
                             Contribution
                               Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              CDN$ Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants                  248,400        100% of the amount
    services,                                   due pursuant to
    including                                   Section 2.01 of
    supervision,                                this Agreement
    transportation
    and accommoda-
    tions of
    trainees
(2) Administration                 5,100        100% of the amount
    fee                                         due pursuant to
                                                Section 1.04 of
                                                this Agreement
(3) Auditing                       1,500        100% of the amount
                                                due pursuant to
                                                Section 1.04 of
                                                this Agreement
         TOTAL                   255,000
