Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No -14831-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
March 3, 1997
Water, Urban & Energy
Central & Western Africa
Country Department 16
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =             Guinean Franc (GNF)
US$1.0                                 GNFI,000
GNF 1,000                =             US$ 1.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter                  -             3.28 feet
I hectare                -             2.47 acres
I kilometer              -             0.625 miles
I liter                  -             0.220 Imperial gallons
I Imperial gallon        -             4.545 liters
I cubic meter            -             220 Imperial gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 African Development Bank
CFD                 Caisse Francaise de Developpement
(French Development Agency)
CREPA               Centre Regional de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
(Regional Center of Water and Sanitation)
DATU                Direction de l'Amenagement du Territoire et Urbanisme
(Directorate of Land Development and Urbanism)
DNH                 Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique
(National Hydraulics Directorate)
EIB                  European Investment Bank
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
KfW                 Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO                 Nongovernmental Organization
OUA                 Organisation de l'Unite Africaine
(African Union Organization)
PHI                 Programme Hydrologique International de I'UNESCO
(UNESCO International Hydrological Program)
PRIM                Programme Regional OUA  d'Amenagement Integre du
Massif du Fouta Djallon
(OUA Regional Planning Program of Fouta Djallon Massij)
PADEULAC            Programme d'Amelioration de l'Environnement Urbain de
l'Assainissement de Conakry
(Conakry Strategic Sanitation Program)
PPF                 Project Preparation Fund
SEEG                Societe d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guinde
(Guinean Water Operation Company)
SNAPE               Service National d'Amenagement des Points d'Eau
(National Service for the Development of Rural Water Supply)
SONEG               Societe Nationale des Eaux de Guinde
(Guinean National Urban Water Development Company)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Mamadou Dia
Technical Manager:  Max Pulgar-Vidal
Task Team Leader:   Yao Badjo



9z .................. I                                                                                                                                IS
SZ                                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~owas 4lddns JaWM uuqiln
b~Z.sisXeutv WPIWWZ! aJTUIU
EZ .uo..                                .                .lo 11!f la lt'M IUatUU3AO
.Z ..2!pnv UleulaI Ppue 2sUunoOOv
.Z 'mU3'WS aWXe
zz ............................ "I.......                                     ...............................- 40A030aao ISOZ)
zz  ..................... .. -1 ......................                                                                                              3 3 S
l z  ..................... .. I .....                                                                           .................9                    O S
I Z---- .................... I.......................................................... -------------------joopas  (Iddns   lajLA    uuqiln
oz ................................                                                                  .......... I....... Slsxlt!UV  IL'OUeUUI- ised
oz .............................                                                                                             .....I... uo lanpo.4ul
oz ...................... 'Il ......................... SISA'IV                                                                       YV'I'       :)N     NIJ   'A
1....................                                                                                ......                     pnV  pue Sujuno3Va
Zl ..................                                                                  ....... sJuatualiuezV  gu!PUo'  pue 2U!o3                          eu!
01'-'''''''-''''''''''''''''---'----'''''--'----'-'----'-'''''''----1-1, 1--''------ -----'----'- ---'-----'-'-''-- '-'---'---'---'-----'-'------   SISOD
8 ......................                                                      ..................1013aS Ot  U! lUOtUaAlOAUI VCII
b7 ..........................-                        .....  ,,- ,............... uot  elues pup AlddnS jairM   juin-
....................................................... uoiliellueS pule Xlddns lajtm   u'qjln
£ .................................-1 ..... saamosau  10118'm
z ............................................................ I- ----  OJD3:S NOISYLV IXVS (INV  A'ddfS                                    L     A~ 9HI   'II
SJLN3ILN03 do alavIL
J,JaONd NOIJLVJINYS UNV AflddfIS U3J11VM (['dIHJ
V .3NIZf931O105n



i.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .............................................                            27
Project Benefits ..............................................                                           27
Poverty Alleviation .............................................                                         27
Project Sustainability .............................................                                      27
Economic Analysis ..............................................                                          28
Project Risks .............................................                                             29
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............................................                    30
Agreements Reached .............................................                                          30
Conditions of Effectiveness .............................................                                 31
Condition of Disbursement ............................................. 32
Recommendation ..............................................                                              32
ANNEXES
1-0      Water Resource Management - Institutional Framework
1-1      Urban Water Supply Sector Organization
1-2      Letter on Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Policy
1-3      Stragegy Letter on Urban Sanitation
1-4      Projected Urban Water Investments for the Next Ten Years
1-5      Water Resources Management: TORs (Draft)
2-1      Project Components and Detailed Costs
2-2      Project Financing and Implementation Schedule
2-3      Project Implementation Schedule (bar chart)
2-4      Monitoring Indicators
2-5      Project Supervision Plan
2-6      SONEG  Organization Chart
2-7      DNH Organization Chart
2-8      DATU Organization Chart
3-1      Water Rates
3-2      Past Financial Statements - SONEG
3-3      Past Financial Statements - SEEG
3-4      Past Financial Statements - Urban Water Supply Sector
4-1      Projected Financial Statements - SONEG
4-2      Projected Financial Statements - SEEG
4-3      Projected Financial Statements - Urban Water Supply Sector
4-4      Assumptions for Financial Projections
5-1      Guinea Urban Water Demand
5-2      Conakry Urban Water Demand
6-1      Note and Assumptions on Economic Analysis
6-2      Summary Environmental Assessment &  Mitigation Plan (water)
6-3      Summary Environmental Assessment & Mitigation Plan (wastewater)
7-1      Project File
Map:  IBRD 27322



iii
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                   Republic of Guinea
Beneficiaries              Ministry of Natural Resources and Energy (MANE), Ministry of
Urbanism and Housing (MUCH) and the Guinean National
Urban Water Development Company (SONEG)
Poverty category           Program of Targeted Intervention
Amount                     SDR 18 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Commitment fee             0.5 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning sixty days
after signing, less any waiver.
Terms                      Standard IDA, with forty years maturity.
Relenting terms            US$16.8 million equivalent of the IDA credit would be provided
by the Government to SONEG, of which US$8.40 million
equivalent would be on lent to SONEG at IBRD terms (twenty
years including five years of grace, at annual interest rate of 7.0
percent), and US$8.40 million equivalent of the IDA credit
would be provided to SONEG in the form of equity. SONEG
would bear the foreign exchange risk. The remaining US$8.2
million equivalent of the IDA credit would be provided to DNH
and DATU as grants.
Project objectives
and description            The proposed project would support four key objectives: (a)
Alleviating health problems and poverty: By increasing
coverage and access to safe water sufficiently to meet urban
household demand, particularly in Conakry's fast-growing, low-
income areas; (b) Improvement of urban environment: By
developing sanitation service in Conakry;  (c) Sultinabl
pricing: By instituting measures to recover costs for the water
supply, setting the stage for a second water management
contract; and (d) Institutional development: By improving the
regulatory capacity and human resources of institutions
responsible for water and sanitation. The main components of
the project comprise: (i) the rehabilitation and extension of
Conakry water system; (ii) support to water resources
management and preparation of national water strategy; (iii)



iv
rehabilitation and construction of facilities for collection and
treatmnent of sewage and sludge.
Benefits                          The project is a poverty-targeted intervention. It would improve
access to affordable safe drinking water for those who do not
now have it and provide sewerage facilities in targeted areas of
Conakry.   The project will support IDA's efforts to better
integrate poverty issues in the design of urban investments.
Systematic community participation would be encouraged at
neighborhood levels to elicit the actual demand of users,
particularly women, who are usually the main water carriers in
low-income neighborhoods. The proposed project would have a
good impact on poverty alleviation in Conakry, by improving
health, hygiene and the capacity for economic activity of the
people including the poorest. Employment opportunities would
be available during the completion of the rehabilitation and
expansion of water supply systems; most works will be carried
out by local contractors and/or subcontractors. More than 40
percent of Guineans do not have access to safe drinking water
and proper sanitation facilities. The project would also improve
the viability of the water and sanitation sector and introduce
more sustainable policy for the management of water resources.
Risks                             The risks involve:  (a) water consumption lower than expected
due to macro conditions or low demand for service connections;
and (b) the pace at which communities would be mobilized and
sensitized to participate, and their willingness to pay for water and
sanitation services. An uncontrolled expansion of inadequate
water operations in secondary centers could jeopardize the
financial viability of the sector. The implementation of the
sector development strategy would help minimize any project
risks. The first risk would be mitigated by introducing an
extension social connections program. The second risk could be
mitigated by a systematic use of beneficiary assessments and
public information through the mayors, NGOs and community
leaders. The following activities which have been carried out will
be helpful to minimize the project's risks: a water demand review;
beneficiary assessment including a general survey; and
willingness to pay studies.
This report Is based on the findings of the Bank appraisal mission which visited Guinea in July 1995 and on a post-appraisal mission
carried out by Yao Badjo In September 1996. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs/Mmes. Y. Badjo (Sanitary Engineer and
Mission Leader), A. Harth (Technical Specialist), N. Tin (Principal Operations Officer), J-L Aka-Adjo (Financial Analyst), T. Sato
(Economist), P. Brook-Cowen (Private Sector Specialist), S. Dabomy and J. Toublanc (Sanitation Specialists), M. Fall (Sanitary
Engineer). M/M. T. Damhaug (Water Resources Management Spec.), R. Verspyck (Principal Water Spec.), S. Haddour (Project
Assistant) and E. Herczeg (Staff Assistant) participated in the preparation of the project. Mr. J. Briscoe is the Lead Advisor, A.
Locussol and L. Obeng are Peer Reviewers. Messrs. Max Pulgar-Vidal and Mamadou Dia are the Technical Manager and the
Country Dictor, respectively, for this operation.



V
Estimated Project Cost
&SS million equswdeni
iocWf          Foi'eign          TeiaI1
EWjet componen
Urban Water Supply
Systems rehabilitation and expansion         3.91           11.18            15.09
Technical assistance, consultants'
services, and on-the-job training            0.00            1.42             1.42
Water Resources Management
Consultants services and training            0.07            0.36             0.43
Equipment                                    0.13            0.32             0.45
Human Waste Management
Construction and rehabilitation of
treatmnent pond                              0.83            4.67             5.50
Training and technical assistance            0.15            1.70             1.85
Base cost estimateb                          5.09           19.65            24.74
Physical contingencies                       0.63            1.97             2.60
Price contingencies                         Q-A4             1.52             Q.60
Total Project Costc                           .6            22.14            28.00e
NQtk: Cost estimates based on consultant evaluations and detailed project design. All costs
reflect unit prices as of December 31, 1996.
'Local costs are net of duties on imported equipment and material.
b In December 1996 prices.
C Based on conftrcts recently awarded in Guinea for similar works under the Water 11 project.
d See Footnote (a).
See Footnote (a).



vi
Financing Plan
Potenthl                                             OJSS mU/oe equAleu
Fundhag Somrce -e.                                        . F-e-n-  ,,,, , a
Water Supply
SONEG                                 1.80           0.00           1.80
IDA                                   2.70          14.10          16.80
Subtotal                              4.50          14.10          18.60
Water Resources Management
Govermment                            0.10           0.00           0.10
IDA                                   0.13           0.77           0.90
Subtotal                              0.23           0.77           1.00
Human Waste Management
Government                            1.10           0.00           1.10
IDA                                   0.03           7.27           7.30
Subtotal                              1.13           7.27           8.40
Total                                          5.86b         22.14          28.00c
Estimated disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year
Disbrewnvnt       1998-      J99       ioo         2if01       2002        2003
Annual            1.50       5.00      6.00        5.50         5.00        2.00
Cumulative        1.50       6.50     12.50       18.00        23.00       25.00
Economic rate of return The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is 13%.
Map    IBRD 27322
'Local costs are net of duties on imported equipment and material.
b See Footnote (a).
See Footnote (a).



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01   Guinea is a coastal country bordered by Guinea-Bissau, Senegal and Mali to the north and
Sierra Leone, Liberia, and C6te d'Ivoire to the south. It spans 245,852 square kilometers and has a
population estimated at seven million in 1994, of which about 2,300,000 inhabitants (33 percent)
live in urban areas and about 4,700,000 inhabitants (67 percent) live in rural areas. The population
is increasing at an average rate of about 2.5 percent a year.
1.02   Guinea is divided into four natural regions. Guinee Maritime (coastal Guinea) constitutes
16 percent of the total territory and is home to about 20 percent of the population, 1,300,000 of
whom live in the capital city of Conakry. The region is inhabited primarily by the Soussou ethnic
group. Moyenne Guinee, or Fouta Djallon (mid-Guinea), constitutes 20 percent of the Guinean
terrain and houses 24 percent of the population, predominantly Peulhs. The savannah of Haute
Guinee (northeast) has the lowest population density, with 21 percent of the population on 40
percent of the county's land. This area is mainly inhabited by Malinkes. Finally, Guinge
Forestiare (south), roughly 25 percent of the country, is home to 19 percent of the population.
Several small ethnic groups (such as the Toma, Manon, Kissi and Guerzes) inhabit this region.
1.03   Guinea is endowed with substantial mineral resources, ample cultivable agricultural land,
and rich fisheries. Yet, largely as a result of past mismanagement of resources and inadequate
development efforts, the majority of its people have a per capita income of about US$450 and
therefore live in extreme poverty. Guinea is classified as one of the "least developed" countries by
the United Nations. The living conditions for urban residents, particularly in the capital, Conakry,
are especially difficult. The quality of life, economic opportunity, and environmental conditions
there are extremely poor. Guinea's social indicators are among the lowest in the world: the under-
five mortality rate is 237 per 1,000 lives births; at I percent, Guinea has the highest maternal
mortality rate, and life expectancy is just 47 years. Only 34 percent of school-age children have
access to primary education, and only 32 percent of the population has access to health services.
1.04   Yet, indicators show significant improvement in the past decade, especially with regard to
access to potable water. Today 60 percent of the population has access to safe water, as compared
with 15 percent in 1980.
1.05   The economic and financial reforms launched in 1985 were supported by IDA, IMF, and
several donors through a first Structural Adjustment Credit.  If successfully implemented,
Guinea's new economic polices should increase private investment, improve exports, and
eventually lead to an overall real growth of about 4 to 5 percent a year from 1996 and a 2 percent
increase a year in per capita income. But, this will require significant capital inflows, needed to
rebuild and maintain the country's infrastructure. Power, water, and telecommunication facilities
will have to expand considerably to accommodate the growing needs.



2
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
2.01 Surface Water. The surface water resources in Guinea are abundant, except for certain areas
in the northern region near the borders of Mali and Senegal. Compared to neighboring countries
Guinea is well endowed with annual rainfall that normally varies from 1300mm to 2300mm in the
Fouta Djallon and the southeastern region, to somewhere between 1500 to 4500 in the coastal
zone. It should also be noted that 13 of the 19 river basins in Guinea are shared with some twelve
other counties in the region. The total annual renewable water resources in Guinea are in the order
of 450 billion m3, of which about 166 billion m3 is considered exploitable. However, despite the
overall abundance of water, the users are not always located in the proximity of adequate water
resources in terms of water quantity and quality. All water supply schemes in the country rely on
appropriate water treatment to reach drinking water standards.
2.02 Groundwater. There is limited information about the groundwater resources of Guinea, as the
exploratory studies are mainly carried out in limited areas in connection with specific water supply
development projects. However, the geological character and the topography of the country
suggests that there should be a number of large aquifers. As surface water resources are coming
under increasing pressure due to intensified land use, growing water demands and increasing
pollution, groundwater is becoming a more attractive water source of municipal water supply.
2.03 Legal Framework. The main legislative instrument for developing a water resources
management strategy is the Law L/94/005/CTRN of February 14, 1994 which serves as a basis for
"Code de l 'Eau". This Law governs a rational management of the country's water resources at the
level of river basin of groups of river basins, and includes the juridical basis for: allocation and
utilization of water resources, protection of water quality, operation of hydraulic works,
exercising authority of protected areas, planning and management of water resources, funding and
setting of water tariffs, and international water affairs. Other relevant laws include: "Code de
l 'Environnement", "Code Minier", "Code Forestier", and "Code Foncier et Domaniar'.
2.04 Institutions. There are many institutions and services involved in water resources
management, under various ministerial departments. The overall national coordination
responsibility has been attributed to the "Commission Nationale de l'Eau" and the "Conseil
National de l'Eau" which were instituted in 1994. In the public sector the "Ministere des
Ressources Naturelles et de l 'Energie" (MRNE) is in charge of the process of developing a water
resources policy and accomplishment of the Government's policies concerning water resources,
energy and environment. The principal agency in charge of water resources is "Direction
Nationale de l'Hydraulique" (DNH). According to the Water Law, DNH is assigned to coordinate
the activities related to the national water policy, administration of the water resources and water
rights, and be in charge of water resources management responsibilities which are not attributed to
other ministries or agencies. The MRNE also includes two other agencies, SONEG and SEEG
which are in charge of the urban water sub-sector. Annex l-0 outlines the present institutional
framework related to water resources management.
2.05 Water Resource Management Issues. There are a number of issues that constitute the
challenge of effective management of Guinea's water resources. One of these are the constraints
related to spatial, temporal and quality dimensions of water resources: too much water, too little



3
water, water in the wrong place, water at the wrong time, and water with wrong quality. The
authorities of Guinea are also giving emphasis to the need to make the legal and regulatory
framework for water resources management more operational. Another issue is the fragmented
institutional situation and lack of harmonization of responsibilities and action programs between
institutions dealing with WRM. Hence it is important to make the overall coordinating bodies, the
"Commission Nationale de l'Eau" and the "Conseil National de l'Eau", operational.
Strengthening of human resources capacity within the key WRM institutions is also among the
important challenges, and so is the enhancement of capacity of the hydrological and water
information services in the country. Another issue is the important position of Guinea concerning
shared international river basins. Guinea's membership and active participation in river basin
organizations such as Programme Regional OUA d Amnnagement Intigrei du Massif du Fouta
Djalon (PRIM), Programme Hydrologique International de l'UNESCO (PHI), is invaluable, and
this activity is closely linked to the development of a domestic water resources management policy
and strategy. Strengthening of Guinea's hydrological and water management and information
services is expected to have very positive effects for the region as a whole, and in particular for the
pertinent international river basin organizations. The above mentioned factors justify the necessity
to improve integrated management and protection of the water resources in Guinea.
2.06 Emerging Strategy. The Government of Guinea has decided to develop and enforce both a
national water resources management policy and local strategies. As of today a Water Resources
Management Policy document is under completion, as a joint effort between representatives from
"la Gestion et l 'Administration des Ressources en Eau", "I 'Hydraulique Urbaine", and
"!'Hydraulique Rurale et l'Assainissement". The Water Resources Management Policy and
Strategy are based on the following objectives: (i) strengthen the capacity of data collection and
water information services; (ii) rehabilitate the hydrological network and activate hydro-ecological
monitoring programs at river basin level; (iii) carry out planning of works and govern water
allocation principles on the basis of water as an economic good; (iv) strengthen the legislative and
regulatory framework and promote their enforcement; (v) vitalize the administration of the "Fonds
de l 'Hydraulique" as an instrument funding of the water sector policy; (iv) establish data bank on
water resources and related economic sector information, and institute routines for information
processing and dissemination; (vii) promote international river basin cooperation and integrated
water management between riparian countries and communities; and (viii) implement programs
for public information and awareness campaigns.
Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
2.07  In 1988 only ten out of thirty three urban centers, (including Conakry and the mining city
Fria) were equipped with piped systems. And even these ten centers provided inadequate water
service. Water production for Conakry was less than 40,000 cubic meters a day for a population
of I million. There were about 12,000 connections for the whole country, and only 600 (5
percent) were equipped with meters. Conakry had 9,000 connections and the rest of the cities had
3,000 connections. But by December 1994, eighteen urban centers were equipped with piped
systems, and of 30,500 water connections (21,000 in Conakry), 95 percent were metered.
Conakry's water production capacity is about 100,000 cubic meters a day. But, less than 55
percent of about 2.3 million people (of which 1.3 million live in Conakry) have access to safe
water through water system connections or standpipes. Everyone else must rely on unsafe sources
to fulfill their needs. This situation will be progressively improved through future investments in
preparation with the collaboration of different partners.



4
2.08   As of December 1995, Conakry houses about 1.5 million inhabitant and is currently served
by a combination of on-site waste disposal systems and sewerage, but the sewer network is
dilapidated and needs rehabilitation. There are no treatment plants, and effluent is discharged
directly into the ocean. A study (financed by Japan and Luxembourg) estimated that only 9
percent of the population is connected to sewerage. The remaining has access to facilities such as
pit latrines, but these are mostly not built to adequate standards.
2.09   The Conakry Strategic Sanitation Program (PADEULAC) project reviewed all aspects of
sanitation and made recommendations for improvements such as: (i) changes in behavior, an
increased improvement of sanitation services, greater initiative at the community level and more
concrete participation of the population in the rehabilitation of their immediate environment; (ii)
implementation of an institutional framework with involvement of private and public sectors in
supplying sanitation services; (iii) cost recovery from beneficiaries.
2.10   A survey conducted as part of this work estimated that 89 percent of the population have
access to on-site disposal facilities and that 10 percent are served by municipal sewerage. But
latrines are not built to adequate technical standards. This high coverage level is offset by the fact
that the design standards and maintenance of the systems are poor and the sewer requires
rehabilitation. Pit emptying is often carried out manually and in unhealthy conditions, because
equipment and access are inadequate. The wastewater and excreta collected are illegally dumped
into the sea or in open areas. There are also more difficult drainage conditions which result from
heavy rainfalls, and the drain network is inadequate and ill-maintained. The proper collection and
disposal of domestic and industrial waste is therefore hampered and carried out under unacceptable
conditions.
Environment and Health
2.11   Few statistics are available on water and sanitation-related diseases. Morbidity due to
common enteric and parasitic diseases is high throughout the country and outbreaks of cholera are
regularly reported. According to the Ministry of Health's report, in 1994, 675 persons (330 in
Conakry alone) died in a cholera epidemic.. Highly inadequate wastewater and excreta disposal
increase health risks and reduce the quality of life, particularly in the densely populated areas of
Conakry.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
2.12   In mid-1988 about 1,750 rural water points were operational, with 85 percent serving
villages and the remaining 15 percent serving small urban centers. By December 1994, about
6,910 water points (90 percent) were operational, of which 834 provided water for small urban
centers that could not be equipped with piped systems. These water points include boreholes
equipped with hand pumps (4,620, or 67 percent), open wells (785, or 11 percent) and tapped
springs (1,508 or 22 percent). Water points serve about 1.4 million people, 30 percent of the total
rural population. Water sector issues in rural areas can be summarized as follows: Lack of
systematic community participation and hygiene education. Little or no user contribution to the
investment of village water systems; the absence of local capacity; the ineffectiveness of sanitation
and hygiene education programs and the total dependence of the sector on external resources.
These issues will be addressed under a separate project to be prepared soon.



5
Sector Organization
2.13 In 1989, to increase access to safe water in urban areas, the Government restructured the
urban water sector and established two companies. The Societe Nationale des Eaux de Guinge
(SONEG) is a state-owned, national water authority under the MRNE that plans and manages
investments. SONEG, as the owner of the sector's facilities is responsible for sector development
-including identifying, preparing, financing, and implementing new projects. SONEG is also
responsible for the debts of the sector. SONEG has the authority to hire and fire staff, set its own
salary levels, and to sign and award contracts. It receives the bulk of its funds from lease fees
which are paid by Societe d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guinee (SEEG) to use SONEG's water
production and distribution facilities. It is managed by a Directeur Gen6ral under the direction of
a Board of Directors, whose President is appointed by decree as well as the Directeur Gen6ral. It
operates under the Ministry in charge of Hydraulics (MRNE) and is subject to external audit by
independent auditors. It employs 44 permanent staff. SONEG is fully operational with all
departmental heads.
2.14   Socidtt d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guinee (SEEG) is a water management company, 51
percent owned by a foreign consortium and 49 percent owned by the state, which operates and
maintains the country's water facilities at its own commercial risk. The establishment of this
innovative private-public partnership, supported by IDA, has become a model world wide (see
"Success of a Lease Contract Guinea's Water Supply," World Development Report 1994, p. 62).
SEEG operates and maintains the facilities, bills the customers, and collects the charges within the
framework of a ten-year lease contract with SONEG.
2.15   Service National dAmenagement des Points d'Eau (SNAPE), created in 1979, and now
under the Ministry in charge of Agriculture, has responsibility for the rural water supply and
sanitation planning, development, and maintenance. SNAPE carries out the major part of the
works (well digging, spring tapping, and borehole drilling) under force account subcontracts to
specialized contractors. Authority over operation and maintenance of the water points remain with
the villagers. In February 1992, SNAPE became a semi-independent entity responsible for rural
water supply and sanitation, planning, development and maintenance for all rural water and
household facilities in the country. SNAPE receives the bulk of its funds for water works and
maintenance from national budget.
2.16   Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique (DNH), or Directorate of Water Works, of the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Energy, is responsible for gathering and updating hydrological
data and for formulating and monitoring regulations applicable to water use. DNH employs fifty
three staff at headquarters and in seven regional offices. Its temporary staff also varies with the
amount of force account work in progress. Senior staff comprises twenty eight engineers and
technicians and twenty five administrative managers.
2.17   Responsibilities for sanitation are divided among several agencies: The Ministry in
charge of Urban and Housing is responsible for planning and executing sanitation works. The
Ministry in charge of Land management controls compliance with public healthiness regulations.
The Ministry in charge of Natural Resources and Energy is responsible for environment
regulation. The Ministry in charge of Education is involved in sanitation through its health
education programs for children. The Ministry in charge of Public Health and Social Affairs
develops health education programs and public health regulations. The Programme



6
d'Amelioration de l'Environnement Urbain et de l'Assainissement de Conalay (PADEULAC)
defines the strategies for the improvement of sanitation and the urban environment of Conakry.
The Direction de l'Amenagement du Territoire et de l 'Urbanisme (DATU), under the Ministry in
charge of Housing and Land management, implements sewage investments.
Sector Issues
2.18    Urban water sector related issues are significantly different from rural ones. Urban
drinking water: Conakry's water production capacity has increased to 100,000 cubic meters a day.
Yet even today, less than 60 percent of the urban population has access to safe water through
connections or standpipes, and the remaining 45 percent must rely on unsafe water. SONEG's
ongoing affermage contract, which will be in force until 1999, does not address the question of
maintenance and rehabilitation of the network, yet Conakry continues to have high water losses.
There is no long-term strategy for the shared use of water resources. In part because several water
supply systems, with numerous standpipes, were installed without enough attention to cost
recovery, standpipes remain a significant financial burden for the Government.
2.19   These issues will be addressed by: ensuring cost recovery through vendors at the
standpipes (already effective); reviewing the contract between SONEG and SEEG to increase
efficiency in the network through water leakage detection and the implementation of a
rehabilitation program; making the costs of free water transparent and verifying the public's
willingness to pay for safe water in low-income areas; and preparing an integrated national water
resource management strategy.
2.20   The issues in the rural water and household facilities are: Community participation and
ownership: in spite of document setting up government policies, the village communities have
always been viewed as beneficiaries of projects planned by SNAPE, and are rarely the initiators;
project identification is most often based on conditions set by the financing agencies. Local
Capacity Building: project execution is based on external intervention; no local consulting
engineer has contributed directly to the preparation, supervision or monitoring of projects.
Borehole drilling is carried out by specialized contractors prequalified on the basis of their
experience and financial criteria and selected after competitive bidding. This has not supported the
emergence of local private contractors. Handpumps installed are ill-maintained because the
"artisans" in charge of maintenance lack adequate training and the maintenance system is not
efficient.
2.21   Sanitation issues. Sanitation has received less attention than water supply both in rural
and urban areas but represents a serious threat to the health of the population. In the urban areas,
the sanitation subsector is not adequately organized and lacks financial and human resources. In
part as a consequence of this, sanitation service providers in urban centers are unable to offer even
basic service to the citizens. In Conakry, the current system is ineffective in the disposal and
treatment of excreta and wastewater, household and industrial solid waste, and stormwater. It is
characterized by an improper maintenance of the sewers and on-site facilities, inadequately
addressed institutional issues and poor cost recovery. In the rural areas, a few projects funded by
UNDP and German assistance have been designed to promote latrines. The majority of the rural
population including some schools and health centers have no access to sanitation facilities and
lack hygiene education.



7
2.22   To address these issues, it will be important to: increase sanitation service delivery,
hygiene education, both in urban and rural areas; promote the installation of proper on-site
technologies; provide training and support for artisans to rehabilitate and construct on-site
systems; support small contractors for pit emptying; rehabilitate, extend, and maintain the
existing sewerage and treatment facilities; establish institutional arrangements for the management
and cost-recovery of all services.
Sector Strategy
2.23   A policy.Qlttr, discussed during appraisal, is finalized, and sent to IDA (Annex 1-2). As
in most sectors of Guinea's economy, the most immediate needs in the water supply and sanitation
sector are the rehabilitation of existing systems and associated improvements in operation and
maintenance. Rehabilitation would be followed by programs of carefully planned expansion and
improvement of existing systems to provide acceptable levels of service to a rapidly increasing
population, particularly the poor. A countrywide water resources plan and groundwater studies
would be prepared for the longer-term development of the sector.
2.24   SONEG's objectives are to develop water services in thirty-three secondary urban centers
(serving as market towns for the rural interior) by the year 2005 and to increase access to safe
water sufficiently to meet urban household demand, particularly in Conakry's fast-growing, low-
income areas, by 2005 (see para. 6.02). The Government and SONEG's objectives and
commitments would be part of the revised enterprise contract, to be agreed upon on a three-year,
rolling basis.
2.25   The short, medium, and long-term development strategy for SONEG will be to maximize
the supply of water available from existing sources and water systems by minimizing leakage, to
manage water demand more effectively by instituting an appropriate tariff policy based on
metered consumption, and to maximize the efficiency of SEEG's water supply operations. Tariffs
will be adjusted to reflect volume consumed and capacity to pay through a program of social
connections for the poor. The strategy -to maximize water supply from existing sources- is
intended to defer high, long-term, capital costs until new investment becomes essential and
consumers are willing to pay for it. This will provide SONEG with time to consolidate its
operational and financial position.
2.26   SONEG's main responsibilities consist in implementing the investment program,
producing consolidated accounts for the sector, and ensuring service sector debts. They would be
regularly revised in light of medium-term financial forecasts. For its part, the Government should
adopt a reasonable investment program for the next ten years (that was prepared by SONEG),
approve tariff increases, pay its water bills, and transfer standpipes to the users who pay for their
water consumption. An investment program has been submitted and approved by the Bank during
negotiations.
2.27   The signature of a three-year, rolling contract-plan that includes an investment program
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The contract-plan would
include procedures for payment of the cost of public water consumption. As agreed before
negotiations, SONEG has revalued its assets and the value of these assets has been included in the
balance sheet. Not later than two months before the end of each fiscal year, SONEG would be



8
required to submit to the Bank, financial forecasts for the following five years, with its annual
operating and capital expenditure budgets for the following year.
2.28   The goals of the strategy to improve sanitation are listed in the sector strategy letter
(Annex 1-3). During negotiations, the Government agreed to contract out the management of
Conakry's sewerage system by December 1998. The completion of the ongoing institutional
arrangement and cost recovery study and the selection of the private operator will be conditions of
disbursement against expenditures related to the physical component for the sanitation works. The
urban environment project under preparation (FY98- GN-PA-1074) would cover the remaining
components of the sanitation strategy.
IDA's Involvement in the Sector
2.29  IDA's involvement in the water supply sector began with the Conakry First Water Supply
and Sanitation Project (Credit 870-GUI), that was approved in March 1985. The objectives of the
project were to: rehabilitate the water production and transmission facilities; extend the water
distribution network including household connections installation; provide technical assistance to
the water supply company; and carry out feasibility studies for water supply/sanitation in
secondary centers. According to ICR 6922, the physical components of the first project have been
for the most part successfully completed. However their result remains below expectations,
especially for the institutional reform to strengthen the sector's financial capability and to promote
systems' improvement.
2.30   The objectives of the Conakry Urban Development Project (Credit 1466-GUI) approved in
1984 were : to strengthen the ability of central and local governments to plan, coordinate, and
control urban growth and development in Conakry and the surrounding area; to establish the basic
mechanisms to fund urban service operation adequately from local revenues; and to improve the
management of city-wide solid waste collection and drainage maintenance operations. To ensure
rural water supply for 140 villages where more than 100,000 persons live in Kissidougou and
Gueckedou regions, IDA financed in 1990 (Credit 2106-GUI, SDR 3.9 million) the
implementation of 322 productive boreholes equipped with handpumps (Kardia), of which 94
percent are operational. The objectives of the ongoing Second Water Project (Credit 1985-GUI),
approved in 1989, were to strengthen the planning and management capabilities of SONEG, the
agency responsible for sector development, and to rehabilitate SONEG's technical, commercial,
and financial operations through a lease contract with a water management company (SEEG).
2.31   The ongoing Second Water Project is being implemented satisfactorily and on schedule.
The percentage of access to safe water has increased from 15 percent in 1980 to 60 percent in
1995. SONEG's capacity has improved with regard to financial management, rate-setting and
reporting. Private sector involvement has improved water supply service through improved billing
and collection performance, reduction of leakage at an acceptable level, expansion of the water
system, and a decrease in contractual costs and delays. Water rates have been increased as agreed,
revenue generation is adequate, and there is no problem with counterpart funding. Fees from
private consumers increased from US$0.10 in 1989 to US$0.75 in 1994. The average fee rate is
US$0.90 per cubic meter in Guinea. But in spite of these significant gains, procurement has been
delayed by Government interference and SEEG did not improve the efficiency of the network after
five years of private operator management. Water losses are still about 47 percent compared to
less than 20 percent in good practices.



9
2.32   The lessons learned from the Second Water Project have been taken into account in the
preparation of the proposed project. Government submitted to IDA a time table to renegotiate
SONEG and SEEG's remuneration. In addition, SONEG and SEEG submitted to the Bank gn
action plan for improving the efficiency of Conakry's water network. The current procurement
practices and policies would be reviewed to ensure that efficient and transparent mechanisms are
followed with regard to the proposed project.
m. THE PROJECT
Rationale
3.01   As noted in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) reviewed by the Board on February
7th, 1994, "with the rural exodus within Guinea and the significant flow of refugees from
neighboring warring countries, Guinea has seen a rapid growth of basic settlements which lack
essential public sanitation equipment and services (water and electric power supply, solid waste
collection, and hygienic disposal of human waste." IDA's continued involvement is therefore
important to sustain water sector reforms (considered a success worldwide), ensure financial
discipline, help consolidate cofinancing (France and Japan are financing in parallel, water and
sanitation works for $74 million) and ensure affordability. IDA support would also help Guinea to
define a sanitation sector strategy and investment plan to serve the growing low-income
population in both urban and rural areas.  Overall the proposed operation is part of a
comprehensive, long-term water sector strategy which aims to : improve competitiveness of the
economy by assuring adequate water supply to both enterprises and households, thereby reducing
the costs of inputs; reduce poverty by increasing access to safe water and sanitation for low-
income households; and support private and public sector infrastructure partnerships.
Objectives
3.02   The overall development objective of the proposed project is to alleviate the effects of
poverty and improve health by increasing access to safe and affordable water and sanitation; to
encourage private sector participation by setting the stage for a new affermage lease contract; and
to ensure sustainability by improving water pricing and cost recovery and developing Guinea's
water sector regulatory and planning capacity. Specific project objectives are:
*     To improve Guinea's urban and rural water resource management by formulating
an integrated, multisectoral strategy for the shared use of water by households,
industry, and agriculture, that would be coordinated with future development
projects in those sectors.
*     To build institutional capacity by strengthening the National Service of
Hydraulics, to develop SONEG's activities in urban water distribution, and to
increase coverage in Conakry, by 100 percent, and metered connections, by 100
percent.
*     To rehabilitate and extend Conakry's sewerage and to contribute to improvements
in environmental quality, through construction, rehabilitation and extension of the



10
existing network, and also by training private local contractors for pit emptying
and sewage management.
Project Description
3.03   The proposed operation has three components:
*      Urban Water Supply (US$18.60 million). The rehabilitation and expansion of the
water supply network in Conakry - with about 300 kilometers of pipelines; the
construction of two storage reservoirs for Conakry; and the installation of about
10,000 household connections. SONEG is to strengthen its regulatory and policy
capacity and to prepare an urban water strategy. This component also comprises
technical assistance to SONEG to prepare / negotiate a new management contract.
*      Urban Sanitation (US$8.40 million). Institutional arrangements including cost
recovery study, and recruitment of a private operator to run the sewage service.
Detailed studies. Promotion of proper technologies, training and support for
artisans to rehabilitate and construct on-site systems, and support for small
contractors for pit emptying; rehabilitation and maintenance of existing sewerage
system in Conakry; establishment of institutional arrangements for management
and cost recovery; construction of a sewerage treatment facility; rehabilitation of a
waste stabilization pond for sludge and sewage treatment.
*      Water Resources Management (US$ 1.00 million). Guinea is being supported in its
efforts to proceed with the national water resource management strategy, by the
Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project and other development cooperation
projects supported by bilateral agencies. The overall objective of the IDA project
is to assist the Direction Nationale de l 'Hydraulique (DNH) to develop a national
water management policy and strategy. This project component is described in
detail in Annex 1-5 , and the main activities will include: (i) organization of a
National Water Resources Management Workshop as a basis for an integrated
strategy; (ii) technical assistance to revise the water legislation; (iii) strengthening
of human resources and institutional capacity in the field of water resources
management; and promotion of regional river basin cooperation. IDA's assistance
will help finance technical assistance and studies required to develop a national
water management policy and strategy.
Costs
3.04   The estimated total cost of the project is US$28.00 million equivalent (excluding taxes), of
which US$22.14 million equivalent (80 percent) are foreign exchange costs (Anne 2-)..



11
Table 3-1. Estimated Project Cost
LSS mfion eidCalent
Zoca            ForeigA         Toted
Project Components
Urban Water Supply
Systems rehabilitation and expansion        3.91           11.18            15.09
Technical assistance , consultants'
services, and training                      0.00            1.42             1.42
Water Resources Management
Consultants services and training           0.07            0.36             0.43
Equipment                                   0.13            0.32             0.45
Human Waste Management
Construction and rehabilitation of
treatment pond                              0.83            4.67             5.50
Training and technical assistance           0.15            1.70             1.85
Base cost estimateb                         5.09           19.65            24.74
Physical contingencies                      0.63            1.97             2.60
Price contingencies                         0.14            Q,52              .6
Total Project Coste                         5.86d          22.14            28.00e
N_At: Cost estimates based on consultant evaluations and detailed project design. All costs reflect
unit prices as of December 31, 1996.
'Local costs are net of duties on imported equipment and material.
bIn December 1996 prices.
c Based on contracts recently awarded in Guinea for similar works under the Water II project.
dSee Footnote (a).
See Footnote (a).



12
Financing and Lending Arrangements
3.05   Total project costs are estimated at US$28.00 million. The local contribution (estimated at
US$3.00 million) would come from the Government (US$1.20 million) and SONEG (US$1.80
million).
Table 3-2. Financing Plan
.>ntentialItJ.S;S millitn equivalent
Fundiuig Sourec                            Local'        Foreign         Total
Water Supply
SONEG                               1.80          0.00           1.80
IDA                                 2.70          14.10         16.80
Subtotal                            4.50          14.10         18.60
Water Resources Management
Government                          0.10           0.00          0.10
IDA                                 0.13           0.77          0.90
Subtotal                            0.23          0.77           1.00
Human Waste Management
Government                          1.10           0.00          1.10
IDA                                 0.03           7.27          7.30
Subtotal                            1.13          7.27           8.40
Total                                       5.86"         22.14          28.00c
3.06 The proposed IDA credit of US$25 million would be made to the Government. Of this
amount, US$0.90 million would be made available to DNH to implement the water resources
management and water regulation studies components and US$7.30 million would go to DATU to
implement the urban sanitation component. Under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
IDA, US$16.80 million equivalent of the IDA credit would be provided by the Government to
SONEG, of which US$8.40 million equivalent (50 percent) would be onlent to SONEG at IBRD
terms (twenty years including five years of grace, at annual interest rate of 7 percent), and
US$8.40 million equivalent of the IDA credit would be provided to SONEG in the form of equity.
SONEG would bear the foreign exchange risk. Interest during construction would be capitalized
and repaid over the life of the subsidiary loan. Counterpart funding for the water supply
component would be provided by SONEG from its own resources.
* Local costs are net of duties on imported equipment and material.
b See Footnote (a).
' See Footnote (a).



13
It has been agreed during negotiations that the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and SONEG would be executed as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
3.07   With respect to the Government's counterpart funding for duties and taxes on imported
equipment and materials for the project, the Government would expedite the clearance of such
goods through customs. To provide the remaining counterpart funding for the financing of the
project (other than those to be provided by SONEG for its own project components) and to ensure
that such funding would be timely and adequate to expedite project implementation, the
Government would deposit counterpart funding which total amount is US$1.20 million. As.a
condition of effectiveness, the Government would establish in a commercial bank in the names of
the implementing agencies -DATU and DNH- to cover required payments for project
expenditures, two project accounts with an initial deposit of US$150,000 for DATU and US$
50,000 for DNH. The rest of the government counterpart funding will be deposited on a half-
yearly basis into these project accounts.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.01   Project preparation started under the financing of the Water II project; consultants have
already prepared a Review of water demand. The first step in assessing demand was to determine the
water use patterns and location of potential users. Present demand for water services in urban centers
was not well known, and -given the absence of adequate facilities- actual consumption does not
reflect effective demand. In addition the recording of metered consumption started only recently,
with the rehabilitation of existing networks. Beneficiary assessment. The second step was to assess
actual demand from domestic customers, through a general survey of the public's willingness to pay
for water. A survey on willingness to pay indicated that more than 75 percent of households
expressed a strong interest in water service by individual connection, although 40 percent of
present standpipe users preferred to keep their current means of water supply because they could
not afford other methods. Among the people who preferred individual water connection, only 10
percent in Conakry (and 20 percent in other centers) were willing to pay the full cost of a service
connection (GNF 300 000). Moreover, majority of the population were not willing to pay even the
average consumer rate ( 880 LF/m3) which is among the highest in the region. The majority of
people would accept a subsidized social connection and only pay about GNF 40,000. Detailed
design studies. Preliminary design studies, carried out for the expansion of Conakry's water
distribution system, were completed by appraisal. The design of a Conakry water distribution master
plan is also under way. The identification of sites for a waste station pond, and the environmental
assessment and reports have been the basis of the IDA project appraisal of June-July 1995, that
was followed by IDA post - appraisal mission in September, 1996.
Preparation and Implementation
4.02   To speed up the preparation of the project, a Project Preparation Facility is approved for
disbursement of the first tranche (US$800,000). The Project Preparation Facility would be
refinanced from the proposed IDA Credit. Activities financed by the Project Preparation Facility
include: for DNH, preparation of Terms of References for the selection of consultants and for
water resource management studies; and for DATU, preparation of Terms of References for the



14
selection of consultants and for sanitation works studies. SONEG. DATU and DNH have prepared
separately, and submitted to the Bank. an action plan and project implementation manual. The
project would be carried out in accordance with the implementation manual, which would not be
amended without Bank approval.
4.03    Water Resource management: The DNH  would implement the water resource
management strategy which will cover: (a) the management and use of water for conservation and
environmental protection and for the benefit of the community; (b) stockholder involvement; (c)
the allocation of water; the investment of public funds; and (d) pricing. The component comprises:
(i) a stakeholder seminar on water resources; (ii) review of water sector; (iii) strategy for water
resources management; and (iv) change required to implement the policy and strategies
(institutional arrangements, capacity building and stakeholder involvement). DNH would finalize
TORs for consultant service.
Urban Water Supply: SONEG would implement this component (prepare, review, and evaluate bid
documents; award and sign contracts; supervise works; withdraw funds from the special account).
SONEG would strengthen its technical department before Board presentation, and appoint an
engineer to run the study and works division. SONEG would be assisted by engineering
consultants. The Conakry water distribution plan is being implemented by SAFEGE/Thorburn
Colquhoun and the preparation of detail design and tender documents for water network
expansion is underway by Thorbum Colquhoun. In addition SONEG will have a two-year
technical assistance for studies and works.
Urban Sanitation: DATU would implement the Conakry sewerage component. This arrangement
was accepted by the concerned authorities and agencies during the appraisal mission. DATU will
carry out technical design and detailed studies for the rehabilitation and the expansion of the
sewerage network, rehabilitation and construction of treatment plants based on the
recommendations of PADEULAC. DATU will carry out an institutional arrangements study that
will allow for establishment of cost recovery and for contracting of a private operator for the
management of the sewage system. The institutional study should be completed by June 1997 and
the private operator would be contracted by December 1998. DATU will be assisted by
engineering consultants. The completion of the ongoing institutional arrangement and cost
recovery study, and the selection of the private operator will be conditions of disbursement against
expenditures related to the physical component for the sanitation works.
Procurement
4.04   Procurement and decision-making under the ITF for FY 97 will follow the World
Bank's official guidelines on procurement of good and services in all respects, except that
procurement will be limited to contributing donors and IDA/IBRD borrowers. The
procurement methods for items to be financed by IDA are summarized in Table 4.1 below. No
special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in the credit documents for ICB, as
Guinea allows Bank procedures to take precedence over any contrary local regulations or uses. For
ICB, the Bank's standard bidding documents for civil works will be used. The major types of
procurement in the project would be for civil works, equipment, and consultant services. Civil
works would consist of the rehabilitation of the existing water and sewage networks, construction



15
of reservoirs and treatment ponds, and installation of water pipelines. Contracts for works
available locally valued at US$250,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$6,000,000, would be procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) -which include local
advertising, public bid opening, clearly stated evaluation criteria- and award to the lowest
evaluated bidder are acceptable to IDA. Foreign firms would be allowed to participate, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.05   Further miscellaneous goods (such as office equipment and vehicles) estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $0.5 million, would be
procured through shopping with the evaluation of price quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.06  Consulting Services and on-the-job training. Consultants would be hired for studies,
supervision, technical assistance and monitoring on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Prior IDA
review of the consultant invitation package would be required for all contracts over US$100,000 in
value for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants.
4.07   Assurance has been made during the negotiations that the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Goods or Works under ICB and the Standard Letter of Invitation Package for
Consultant's Services will be used. Prior IDA review of advertisements, bidding documents,
tender evaluations and recommendations for award would be required for each ICB and NCB
contract over US$250,000 equivalent in value, covering over 95 percent of the value of all
contracts to be awarded. Smaller contracts would be subject to post review. SONEG, DNH and
DATU are equipped to plan, manage and monitor procurement activities. The Government has
recently decided to improve the transparency and efficiency of public procurement. The
Government is currently undertaking with the Bank's assistance a review of procurement
regulations and practices to: (i) promptly revise the procurement code; (ii) radically simplify the
procedures and channels for awarding and signing contracts; and (iii) permit payments to
contractors in less than twenty days. In order to expedite project implementation before credit
effectiveness, consultants would prepare all major bidding documents relating the project. The
proposed project would be completed by June 30, 2002. SONEG has submitted to IDA during
negotiations: (a) a satisfactory procurement plan; and (b) satisfactory procedures for the project
management and procurement.



16
Table 4-1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Irems Procured                       ICs      .CB       OTHERS   T OTAL
1. Civil Works
(a) Reservoirs, Transmission
and Distribution             11.00     6.00       -        17.00
(10.00)   (5.20)     -       (15.20)
(b) Treatment Ponds &
sewer network rehabilitation  6.40      -         -         6.40
(5.40)    -         -        (5.40)
2. Equipment and Vehicles
(c) DNH                                     -         0.50      0.50
(0.40)    (0.40)
3. Consulting & Technical Assistance
(d) Technical assistance
and training                  -        -         0.50      0.50
(0.45)    (0.45)
(e) Project design & supervision   -        -         3.60      3.60
(3.55)    (3.55)
Total                            17.40      6.00      4.60     28.00
Total Financed by the IDA Credit     (15.40)   (5.20)    (4.40)   (25.00)
NDte: Figures in parentheses are US$ million equivalent, to be financed by IDA. Local costs
are net of duties on imported equipment and material.
Disbursements
4.08   The closing date of the proposed credit would be December 31, 2002. The disbursement
profile of the proposed project is faster than the average disbursement profile for Bank/IDA
financed water projects in Africa, and reflects the strong disbursement performance of the ongoing
Second Water Project. The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against the following
categories:



17
Table 4-2. Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Amount of the Interim            % of
Fund Credit Allocated         Expenditures
Category                  (US$ million, net of Taxes       to be Financed
1. Civil Works
a. Reservoirs, Transmission                          100% of foreign expenditure &
& Distribution                 13.60               90% of local expenditure
(SONEG)
b. Network rehabilt./ treatment ponds                100% of foreign expenditure &
(DATU)                    5.00                90% of local expenditure
2. Vehicles/ Equipment                               100% of foreign expenditure &
(DNH)                     0.45                90% of local expenditure
3. Consuling Services                                100% of total expenditure
a. SONEG                         1.40
b. DATU                          1.35
c. DNH                           0.40
4. Refunding of PPF              0.80
5. Unallocated                   2.00
TOTAL                     25.00
4.09   To facilitate disbursement of funds, three special accounts will be set up, one for each
implementing agency i.e. DNH, SONEG, and DATU, in a commercial Bank under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for SONEG's special account amounts to
US$350,000, and to US$200,000 for DATU's account, and to US$100,000 for DNH's account.
Upon effectiveness of the credit, half of the initial deposits will be made available to each special
account and the remaining balance as needed. Replenishments of the special accounts should be
made every month and must be fully documented, except for contracts valued at less than (i)
US$250,000 equivalent for civil works and goods, (ii) US$100,000 for consultants (firms), (iii)
US$50,000 for individual consultants. Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained by SONEG, DATU and DNH for review by IDA supervision missions and for semi-
annual audits. Under Credit 1985-GUI, SONEG was representing the Borrower and will be the



18
representation for its disbursement purposes. The Department of Finance and Plan will be
representing DATU and DNH for disbursement purposes.
Accounting and Auditing
4.10   The Borrower possesses a satisfactory accounting system and adequate internal controls
are in place to ensure the reliability of SOEs as a basis for disbursement. Accounting for project
expenditures and special account transactions (including statements of expenditures) would be
maintained by each implementing agency for its respective project components in accordance with
sound and intemationally recognized accounting principles and practices that are acceptable to
IDA. Agreement has been obtained during negotiations for SONEG. DNH and DATU. to have the
project accounts, special accounts, and statement of expenditures audited annually by qualified
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, including a separate opinion on the use of SOEs
(including the review of procurement-related decisions), the operation of the special account, and
the statements of water collection by SEEG; the audited accounts, together with the auditors'
reports be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the close of their fiscal (or financial)
year.
Reporting and Monitoring
4.11   SONEG, DNH and DATU would each prepare quarterly progress reports covering all
project components within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports would include
progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules and key
performance indicators and work programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and the total
project. The main purpose of the reports would be to provide timely and updated information on
implementation of project components, to highlight issues and problem areas, to recommend
actions, and to comment on the progress made toward implementing previous recommendations.
The Government, with assistance of SONEG, DATU and DNH would prepare a completion report
within six months of the final disbursement in accordance with IDA guidelines. Reporting
requirements and key performance indicators have been discussed and agreed upon with SONEG,
DNH and DATU. SONEG will periodically report on its operating and financial performance and
of SEEG's, using the agreed upon monitoring indicators. It has been agreed during the
negotiations that SONEG, DNH and DUTU, would submit to IDA copies of all consultants'
reports and studies financed under the proposed project.
4.12   Disbursements will be made in accordance with procedures and policies outlined in the
Bank's Disbursement Handbook. IDA, and the Government would carry out a detailed mid-term
review of the entire project two year from the date of credit effectiveness, that is no later than May
31, 1999. During this review particular attention would be paid to compliance with projects
covenants, particularly those affecting financial effectiveness and audits, to the progress made in
implementing the project components, and to the performance and efficiency covenants of the
SEEG's management contract. The reviewers might then suggest modifications in the scope of the
proposed project.



19
Supervision Plan
4.13   Bank supervision missions would occur at least twice a year. The supervision program for
the project and key performance indicators for monitoring the project's progress were discussed at
appraisal and agreed upon during the negotiations (Annex 2-4).
Environmental Aspects
4.14   The Government has prepared a satisfactory National Environient Action Plan focusing
on the natural resources management (including water) and the environment. The most pressing
issues in Conakry are those of solid and human waste disposal, both of which would be addressed
under this project and the ongoing Urban II Project (Cr. 2112). The proposed physical works
would not generate resettlement or have any negative environmental impact. In addition, a
complementary proposed Third Urban Environment Project under preparation would address solid
waste management, secondary roads and environmental issues related to drainage. An
environmental impact assessment study carried out in June-July 1995, placed the proposed project
in environmental Category B. According to the environmental impact assessment, all physical
components of the proposed project should have a positive impact on the environment, through
improvement of water supply and sanitation service in Conakry (Annex 6-2). In addition, an
environmental assessment of the sewage component was also carried out and an executive
summary in English is attached (Anne.x6-1). The Government has sent i   the Bank officiallv,
and it will be available thereafter at the Bank's Public Information Center.
4.15   Since the project's investments consist mainly of maintenance and rehabilitation of
existing sewerage systems and extension of the water supply network, no major environmental
impacts are foreseen. Mitigation and compensatory measures of negative impacts have been
studied with Guinean authorities. Pipelines would not have any significant long-term
environmental impact following their construction and the reinstatement of all surfaces. Care
would be taken when sitting pipe-fittings to ensure, as far as possible, unobtrusive locations for
any chambers, the covers of which should be flush with the road surface. Exposed pipes would be
protected against corrosion by bitumen-based paints. The extension and the rehabilitation of the
existing sewerage system would also have no long-term significant adverse environmental impact,
except for temporary transit disruptions. This component, which would serve the immediate needs
of the city, would significantly improve the environment. The construction of the water supply
and sewerage system would temporarily disrupt the local area. To keep disturbances to a
minimum, SONEG, and DATU would limit the amount of trench allowed to be open at any time;
to limit contractors' stringing operations (to avoid having long lengths of unlaid pipes strung out
by the roadside); to provide financial incentives within the contract for the prompt temporary
reinstatement of trenches; to restrict the dumping of trench spoil in unsuitable or inconvenient
locations; and to ensure that road plates are provided to allow trench crossing.
After works, negative impact could come from a bad maintenance of lagoons or a breakdown of
the system of supplying the lagoons with wastewater. The only major negative impact (bad smells)
could result of a bad monitoring of wastewater treatment. Follow-up and evaluation of lagoons and
more generally, of all sanitation systems, should be carried out by means of convention with the
University of Conakry under a supervision of a specialized consultant. The mitigation plan has
been integrated into the design of the project components, and will be funded under the project.
The Department of Environment within the Ministry of Public Works will be charged with the



20
responsibility for coordinating the environmental activities and overseeing the mitigation plan
under the project.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
5.01    In 1989, SONEG, the holding company, and SEEG, the management company, were set
up, drastically modifying operating conditions and performance within the sector and significantly
improving its financial standing. Both the lease contract that guides the operations of SEEG and
the structuring of the management company's foreign currency income have been instrumental in
improving the sector's overall performance. But while the water-metering program proved an
effective control on actual water consumption and helped to improve bill collection, performance
could have been even further improved if the lease contract had provisioned incentives and
penalties for operating efficiency. Past financial indicators are summarized in the table below and
the sections that follows.
Past Financial Analysis
Table 5-1. Past Financial Indicators
GJVFiuIlejIg
199.   1991          1'993        1994          95
Urban Water Supply Sector
Total revenues                                    4,556      6,122     12,314      19,495      19,933
Total operating expenses                          4,829      5,814      9,541      13,792      11,133
Debt service                                         87       164         372       1,838       5,418
Net income                                        (318)      (177)      2,402       3,901       3,069
Net intemal cash flow                               900      3474       (797)       2,936       3,213
Cash at end of year                               1.030      1,601      3,803       5,419       1,788
Accounts receivables                                984      3,192     11,494      14,972       7,992
Net fixed assets                                 17.566    31,764      89,125      90,392      92,772
Long tern debt                                   14.140     19,300     72,197      89,559      79,694
Equity share capital                              8.244    19,311      43,396      45,466      47,960
S.O.N.E.G.
Total revenues                                      624      1,681      4,706       8,144       6,026
Net income                                        (519)      (196)      2,214       3,323       5,882
Operating ratio                                   176%       83%         48%         42%        44%
Net internal cash flow                              684      2,475     (2,009)      (153)        (48)
Cash at end of year                                 546      1,116      3,264       5,381       1,755
Internal cash contribution to investments           5%         5%        13%         36%         390/o
Net fixed assets                                 16.353    30,540      87,998      88,708      91,014
Total assets                                     24.645    47,141     127,791     147,068    146,314
Long term debt                                   14.125     19,300     72,197      89,559      79,694
Equity share capital                              6.945     18,011     42,096      44,166      46,660
Revenues from Tarif exploitant local                         2,189      4,890       6,890       5,447
Revenues from Tarif exploitant etranger                      1,934      2,415       2,425       2,034
Total revenues                                    3,932     4,440       7,608      11,350      13,906
Operating ratio                                    95%       99%         96%         92%         95%
Net internal cash flow                              216      1,009      1,211       1,323       3,261
Cash at end of year                                 483       485         538          38         33



21
Urban Water Supply Sector
5.02   Under its reformed institutional arrangements, revenues collected by the urban water
supply sector have grown significantly, going from GNF 172 million per month in 1990 to GNF
1.12 billion per month in 1995. The level of water billed grew from 4 million cubic meters to 14
million cubic meters, and the rate charged for water consumption was raised from GNF 150 per
cubic meter in 1989 to GNF 880 per cubic meter in 1995. The sector's operating ratio, however,
was consistently more than 70 percent over the last five years. Although this ratio is now falling
(having gone from 122 percent to 71 percent), these values are still too high for an efficiently
operating urban water sector.
5.04   The large investments in the sector financed through the Second Water Project were
started in 1992 (both work in progress and investments in fixed assets), and most of them were
largely completed and put in operation by 1993 and 1994 (with gross fixed assets of GNF 40
billion in 1992 and GNF 89 billion in 1993). Investments in fixed assets totaled 132 billion GNF
during the 1989-1994 period. They were financed by long-term debt (88 billion GNF), grants
from donors (42 billion GNF), and self-financing (2 billion GNF). Part of the equity capital
increase was supplied by IDA under the Second Water Project agreement. The rest came from
grants from bilateral donors. The combination of tariff increase, increase in water billings, and
substantial external financial assistance (credits and grants) has enabled the sector to accumulate a
significant cash reserve which was valued at about 5.4 billion GNF at the end of 1994. However,
the debt service in 1995 has already started decreasing that cash reserve.
SONEG
5.05   Over the past five years, SONEG's total revenues have grown significantly, going from
GNF 624 million in 1990 to GNF 6,026 million in 1995. But, despite a 14 percent average cash-
operating ratio over the period, SONEG's activities were characterized by an average operating
ratio of 75 percent (having gone from 176 percent in 1990 to 44 percent in 1995).
5.06   SEEG's numerous delays in transferring the redevance collected to SONEG directly
affected SONEG's provision for bad debt, and the significant increase in sector investment raised
the level of depreciation. Both represented more than 77 percent of total revenues on average over
the period, so that the company experienced net losses in 1989 of GNF 138 million, in 1990 of
GNF 519 million, and in 1991 of GNF 197 million. Since 1992, however, the company has
incurred net profits, going from GNF 1,099 million in 1992 to GNF 3,323 million in 1994 and to
5,881 million in 1995. SONEG's financial results would have been better had SEEG efficiency in
customer management improved and the proposed yearly tariff increases been effective on January
1st every year.
5.07   Cash generated internally has fluctuated in proportion with the investments made in fixed
assets. Internal cash flow represented about 7 percent on average of the total uses of funds
(investments in assets and management contract).
5.08   The investment program of the Second Water Project was financed mostly with external
financing through credits and grants. Indeed, investment expenditures (including the purchase of



22
fixed assets and a management contract for SEEG) grew from GNF 16 billion in 1989 to GNF 25
billion in 1994, with peak years in 1992 (GNF 35 billion) and 1993 (GNF 41 billion).
5.09   With the execution of the projects-related investments, the value of the sector's net fixed
assets went from GNF 13 billion in 1989 to GNF 91 billion in 1995 and (a portion of fixed assets
have been revalued in fiscal 1995 by an independent expert).
SEEG
5.10   SEEG's water sales revenues increased more than six-fold, going from about GNF 100
million per month in 1989 to about GNF 620 million per month in 1995, and its total revenues
increased even more than ten-fold between 1989 and 1995, going from GNF 1 billion to GNF 14
billion. Foreign management fees increased significantly (GNF 87 million per month in 1989 to
GNF 202 million per month in 1994). Revenues from works also increased dramatically (GNF 1
million per month to GNF 148 million per month in 1994). Loaded with a 70 percent average
cash-operating ratio over the period (which peaked in 1991 at 82 percent), SEEG averaged a 100
percent operating ratio (which went from 116 percent in 1989 to 95 percent in 1995).
5.11   Three reasons explain SEEG's low profitability. Salary expenses are still very high (GNF
342 million in 1989, GNF 2.1 billion in 1995), because the transfer of operational management
responsibilities has yet to occur between foreigners and nationals at SEEG. Other operating costs
such as maintenance equipment and activities and French Partner related expenses are also high;
and after five years of private operation the efficiency ratio (50 percent) of the Conakry water
network is low compared to an average of 80 percent in good practices
5.12   Provision for bad debts, moreover, averaged roughly 18 percent of water sales revenues a
year over the past five years, an exceedingly high ratio. These large provisions were mainly meant
to cover Government arrears (GNF 3,200 million in 1994), and late payments from private
consumers. Net profits were therefore limited, and no dividends were distributed to shareholders.
It is difficult to assess SEEG's real finance situation because since the beginning of the lease
contract, SEEG fails to provide SONEG with detail accounting data as agreed in the lease contract.
Cost Recovery
5.13   Agreement under the Second Water Supply Project to progressively increase the water
rates to achieve full cost recovery was adequately executed. The declining subsidies provided by
the budget (support to SONEG's debt service) and under the IDA financing (payment of the
foreign portion of SEEG remuneration) were discontinued in 1995, as expected.
5.14   The Government had approved on time, the proposed tariff increases. The current tariff
level (GNF 880 per cubic meter or US$0.90 per cubic meter) compared with the 1988 level (GNF
60 per cubic meter or US$0.12 per cubic meter) is higher than the levels expected in the Staff
Appraisal Report of the Second Water Supply Project (GNF 561 per cubic meter or US$0.76 per
cubic meter). The current tariff, as it now stands, represents about 175 percent of the "tarif
exploitant" (both foreign and local portions included), compared with 69 percent when the two
institutions of the sector were created.



23
5.15   SONEG was supposed to pay to the state an increasing portion of the debt service of the
urban water investments, beginning in 1991: 20 percent in 1991, 40 percent in 1992, 60 percent in
1993, and 80 percent in 1994. SONEG and the state proceeded partly with a cross-debt
compensation and SONEG paid the rest in cash to the state in 1993, 1994 and 1995. As of July 31,
1996, SONEG has paid all its service debt to the Government.
Rate Structure
5.16   The average water tariff is made up of the following two elements: the tarif exploitant
and the redevance. The tarif exploitant is intended to cover SEEG's expenses, both foreign and
local. The foreign currency portion is provided by donors at a decreasing rate --100 percent in
1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993; 80 percent in 1994; and 60 percent in 1995-- in order to smooth out
the burden on water consumers. The local currency portion is the part of the tarif exploitant
collected to cover SEEG's local expenses. Although fixed, both portions of the tarif exploitant
have provisions that allow them to be modified according to economic criteria. The redevance
will cover SONEG's operations, investment expenses, and related debt service. This portion of
the water rate is collected by SEEG and transferred to SONEG. Currently, although the average
consumer rate stands at 880 GNF/m3, the poorest section of the consumers benefit from a "social
rate" equivalent to 680 GNF/m3. Also, the cost per connection averages 300 000 GNF, whereas
the consumer only pay 60 000 GNF.
Accounting and Internal Auditing
5.17   SONEG has set up to install and use efficient accounting procedures and systems which
enable it to efficiently monitor its accounting and financial management. SONEG has established
a manual covering management, accounting, and internal control procedures. The internal audit
function, however, is not as adequately carried out, and SONEG should recruit by March 1997 an
internal auditor with accounting and managerial skills.
Government Water Bill Collection
5.18   Government billing was based on a lump sum structure until 1990 and was grossly
overvalued. An individual lump sum billing structure was implemented for each public
connection in 1990, and later, water metering equipment was installed. As a result, Govermnent
water consumption has changed drastically from 7.5 million cubic meters with global lump sum to
about 5.4 million cubic meters in 1993. In 1995, the Government implemented two measures to
further reduce its water consumption and improve its payment ratio. It established a list of
Government services for which water consumption will be paid by the Government, and
transferred public standpipe water bills to local communities.
5.19   Government arrears periodically bring financial transactions between SEEG, SONEG, and
the state to a standstill. SEEG would make up for its Government arrears by not transferring the
water revenues owed to SONEG. And SONEG, in turn, would not submit withdrawal applications
to the Bank for payment of TEE to SEEG. SONEG was able to negotiate compensatory cross-debt
structuring with the state to ease the burden of not receiving its portion of revenues from water
sales. As of September 23, 1996, the state owed about GNF 4 billion in payment arrears to SEEG.
On 25 September 1996, the state, SEEG and SONEG proceeded to a compensation of their cross-
debts. Currently, the Government owes GNF 660 million to SEEG that also owns GNF 608



24
million to SONEG. The settlement of all Government arrears shall be paid to SEEG and SEEG
also should pay all arrears due to SONEG before Credit effectiveness.
Future Financial Analysis
Table 5-2. Projected Financial Indicators
GNF mi/ibm
i996     1998      2001)    2002      2004
Urban Water Suply Sector
Total operating revenues                   20,229    31,018    35,592    38,293    38,750
Total operating expenses                   20,687    24,192    26,527    28,458    27,049
Debt service                                6,033    13,052    13,224    14,168    13,535
Net income                                (3,318)     1,467    3,765     4,289     7,174
Net internal cash flow                      2,481     4,845    8,189     9,476    10,490
Net cash at the end of year               (2,141)    2,687     3,565     5,093     7,243
Accounts receivables                        8,071     8,119    9,348    10,874    11,434
Net fixed assets                          125,422   162,297   189,786   203,877   233,263
Long term debt                             97,446   140,519   154,123   182,229   179,653
Equity share capital                       47,960    47,960    47,960    47,960    47,960
S.Q.N.E.G.
Total from redevance                        5,702    14,276    16,224    17,510    17,150
Net income                                 (4,110)     210      1,543    2,089     4,719
Operating ratio                              78%      62%       48%       56%       46%
Net internal cash flow                     (1,080)     454     2,205     2,508     2,886
Cash balance                                1,668     1,505    1,358     1,226     1,106
Internal cash contribution to investments    33%      22%       17%       17%       17%
Net fixed assets                          104,000   141,559   167,679   181,340   209,402
Total assets                              166,498   213,590   222,527   260,232   264,579
Long term debt                             99,665   140,519   154,123   182,229   179,653
Equity share capital                       46,660    46,660    46,660    46,660    46,660
Total revenues                             14,527    16,742    19,368    20,783    21,600
Operating ratio                              95%      92%       88%       89%       88%
Net internal cash flow                      3,561     4,391    5,983     6,968     7,604
Cash at the end of year                       135     1,182    2,207     3,867     6,136



25
Urban Water Supply Sector
5.20   Conservative assumptions were used to make the following financial projections (Anne
5-4). In conformity with the terms of the Second Water Project, the Tariff Exploitant Etranger
ended on July 31, 1995. Sector's revenues will grow from 20 billion GNF in 1995 to 39 billion
GNF in 2004. Revenues from water account for 13 billion GNF in 1995 and 31 billion GNF in
2004 and water billed will increase from 14 million cubic meters to 35 million cubic meters. Net
income will rise from 6 billion in 1995 to 7 billion in 2004.
5.21   Disbursements of the proposed Third Water Supply Credit would start after mid- 1997 and
interest would be capitalized during construction. Interests and principal payments will start mid-
2002 when assets thus financed are put into operations. Projected net internal cash flow figures
increase by an average of 31 percent a year from 5 billion to 19 billion GNF which demonstrate
the sector's financial viability and capacity to invest in productive assets, service the debt thus
contracted and maintain those investments. The sector's cash balance is continuously increasing
from GNF1.8 billion to 7.20 billion in 2004. Long term debt represents an average of 78 percent
of fixed assets as some debts are retired and some assets are financed with grants and internally
generated cash. Possible internal contribution to investment averages 56 percent for the whole
sector. Return on net fixed assets averages 4 percent, and current ratio averages 3.0 for the next
ten years.
SONEG
5.22   Having progressively established a sound financial basis, SONEG has emerged as a
commercially autonomous and financially viable institution. If the redevance rate stays at around
GNF 420 per cubic meter in 1995, and thereafter is maintained from 1997 at a level adequate for
SONEG to fulfill sector investments and debt service obligations (Annex 5-4). SONEG's
revenues will grow from about GNF 6 billion in 1995 to about GNF 17 billion in 2004.
5.23   The operating ratio continues to average a low value of about 58 percent, since SONEG's
main function remains to borrow to make sector investments, and to maintain assets. The
assessment of the value of fixed assets by an independent expert was finalized on schedule. This
assessment brings down the total value of assets by about US$6 million, and book values are
changed accordingly for the projections. Using these, depreciation increases from GNF 4.3 billion
on 1995 to about GNF 5.1 billion in 2004. SONEG's assets will be annually revalued on a pM
foQrm basis along procedures acceptable to the Bank. SONEG holds the total long-term debt of
the sector, as well as its debt service. Interest owed is projected at GNF 2 billion in 1995 and GNF
4 billion in 2004. Principal owed is estimated to be GNF 1.8 billion in 1995 and GNF 8.9 billion
in 2004.
5.24   The possible contribution of internal cash to SONEG investments is estimated to average
24 percent. The debt service coverage ratio averages 1.6 times (and the current ratio averages 1.5
times) over the next ten years. The level of receivables whose reasonable objective can be
forecasted at sixty days of sales will depend on SEEG's commercial and collection record. It will
also depend on SEEG transferring to SONEG, as soon as collected, the amount of revenues
equivalent to the redevance owed to SONEG as agreed in the lease contract. The cash balance
will be positive over the next ten years.



26
5.25   To comply with these yardsticks, assurances have been made during negotiations:
*     That SONEG not enter into new borrowing arrangements unless a reasonable
forecast of its revenues and expenditures which is acceptable to the Bank,
indicates that projected internal cash generation by SONEG, for each year during
the term of the debt to be incurred, will be at least equal to SONEG's projected
total debt service for that year.
*     That SONEG not make any new investment until the end of the project that is
estimated to cost more than US$5 million (or equivalent) each, unless such
investment is, in the opinion of the Bank technically, financially, and
economically viable based on detailed financing plans and forecasts.
*     That SONEG provide the Bank with consolidated financial statements for the
urban water supply sector at the end of each fiscal year.
*     That measures will be taken, including tariff adjustments, to ensure that SONEG
and SEEG's revenues generate an annual rate of return of no less than 4 percent of
the average current net value of their fixed assets for each fiscal years of 1998 and
1999, and no less than 5 percent for each of the fiscal years thereafter.
SEEG
5.26   Ultimate responsibility for the sound development of the urban water supply sector rests
with SEEG. The sector's actual financial performance will continue to depend on the pace at
which this operating company reduces unaccounted for water level. As mentioned above, the
management contract will be renegotiated in 1999. But, SONEG and SEEG have already
submitted to the Bank an action plan to improve the Conakry water network and Government has
also submitted a proposal time table to review SONEG and SEEG's remuneration. This is
designed to improve the efficiency of the water supply sector and to assure compliance with
contract covenants already accepted.
5.27   According to the present contract, the current Tariff Exploitant Local (GNF 425 per cubic
meter in 1994) has increased to about GNF 550 per cubic meter in September 1995 to make up for
the stopping of the government financial support. Revenues from water sales based on this billing
should grow from GNF 7.4 billion in 1995 to GNF 14.3 billion in 2004 and operating ratio
averages 70 percent over the period since operating expenses (mostly salaries, operating
equipment, and French Partner remuneration) will remain high.
5.28   Other revenues from SEEG consist mainly of revenues from establishing new connections
and other works. Assumptions regarding new connections are as follows: 6000 connections from
1995 to 1996 at GNF 290,000 per connection, 7000 connections from 1997 to 2002 at the base
price escalated by inflation, and 5000 connections thereafter at the base price escalated at the
inflation rate. SEEG's investment activities will be limited to acquiring equipment for the
installation of connections and the execution of works. The level of investment will be directly
tied, therefore, to the actual cost of the equipment necessary to execute the works. Current ratio



27
averages should therefore be 3.5 over the next ten years, on top of rapidly increasing cash balance
(33 billion GNF in 1995 and 6.1 billion GNF in 2004).
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Project Benefits
6.01   The project key benefits would be threefold: (a) on the poverty and health side, the project
will improve the quality and the access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation of urban and rural
dwellers; (b) on the financial side, the project will improve the viability of water and sanitation and
strengthen sustainable policy in urban water; and (c) on the productive side water would be available
to meet the demand of commercial and industrial users, removing an obstacle to the development
of these sectors, and allowing of urban areas to become more efficient and competitive. The
project will allow for increased, time savings for women and children, particularly in poor urban
areas. The latter would translate into greater opportunities for education and employment.
Poverty Alleviation
6.02   The project will target this population and, at the same time, better integrate poverty issues
in the design of urban and rural investments. Systematic community participation would be
encouraged at neighborhood and village levels to elicit the actual demand of users, particularly
women, who are usually the main water carriers in low-income neighborhoods. The proposed
project would have a direct impact on poverty alleviation in Conakry, by improving health,
hygiene and the capacity for economic activity, particularly the poorest.  Employment
opportunities would be available during the completion of the rehabilitation and expansion of
water supply systems and the rehabilitation and extension of the sewage facilities; most of the
works will be carried out by local contractors and/or subcontractors. More than 40 percent of
Guineans do not have access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation facilities. The proposed
project would not only ensure accessibility to safe water by these disadvantaged people but would
also allow affordability through a water tariff structure. In order to offer further opportunities for
poverty alleviation, the medium and long-term strategic plans will enable future investments in
water supply and low cost sanitation services.
Project Sustainability
6.03   The development of the sector's long term policy, the institutional design with private
sector participation (SONEG's regulatory framework and SEEG's private lease-contract financial
structure), cost recovery and resource mobilization would continue to ensure the sustainability of
supplying safe affordable water to a larger proportion of the population in urban areas and set the
foundation for extending safe water in areas. Operation and maintenance of the water and
sanitation systems would be independent from government's subsidies, a rare situation in
developing countries. In addition combining water supply, sanitation and hygiene education
would maximize the health benefits and ensure a long-term impact. The sustainability of the sector
will depend also on:
*     Strengthening local capacity to plan, manage, and organize the sector.
*     Diversifying technological options.



28
*     Improving the sustainability of the sanitation sector.
*     Clarifying responsibilities among both public and private actors.
*     Developing labor-intensive method.
*     Hiring local people.
Economic Analysis
6.04   The overall development objectives of the proposed project is to alleviate the effects of
poverty and improve health by increasing access to safe and affordable water and sanitation; to
encourage private sector participation by setting the stage for a second-generation affermage lease
contract; and to ensure sustainability by improving water pricing and cost recovery and developing
Guinea's water sector regulatory and planning capacity (para. 3.02).
In terms of health benefits, the project would reduce the water-borne morbidity which
constitutes the dominant cause of death among infants and children in Guinea. (For example,
diarrhea diseases accounts for the largest share 20.3% of cause of death among the age group 0-4.)
This would contribute to higher labor productivity of the population. It would also contribute to
reducing public spending on health.
6.05   Economic analysis of the proposed project (ANNEX 6-1) focuses on quantifiable
economic benefits from the urban water supply component, the largest component of the project,
taking into account of a reduction in un-accounted for water due to improved managerial
efficiency and the immediate rehabilitation of the water system, as well as consumer's surplus
generated from  the increase in water consumption per capita.  In addition, the analysis
incorporates benefits from urban sanitation components.
6.06   Affordability and willingness to pay.  A nation-wide survey on willingness to pay
indicated that more than 75 percent households expressed a strong interest in water service by
individual connection, although 40 percent of present standpipe users preferred to keep their
current means of water supply because they could afford other methods. Among the people who
preferred individual water connection, only 10 percent in Conakry (and 20 percent in other
centers) were willing to pay the total cost of water use. Moreover, the majority of the population
was not willing to pay even the average consumer rate, estimated as 880 QF/lm3 in 1995, which is
among the highest in the region. The high consumer rate is due to low water sales, and it is
recommended to be reduced to a more affordable level. Currently, although the average consumer
rate stands at 880 GNF/m3, the poorest section of the consumers benefit from a "social rate"
equivalent to 680 GNF/m3. Also, the cost per connection averages 300 000 GNF, whereas the
consumer only pays 60 000 GNF.
6.07   Marginal Cost. The long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of the water supply system, as
expressed by the average incremental cost (AIC), is estimated at 1,027 GNF per cubic meters,
using a 10 percent discount rate to reflect the opportunity cost of capital (for detailed calculations,
see ANNEX 6-1).
6.08   Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return of the water component was
calculated taking into account the probable benefits that would occur from the incremental
quantity of water the project supplied. This incremental amount of water would be used by the
beneficiaries both to replace previously used sources (water from vendors), and to increase water



29
consumption. To calculate the benefits from the increase in water consumption, we have estimated
the additional consumers' surplus, which arises from the increase in water consumption assuming
a linear demand curve and price elasticity of -0.2. The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of
water supply component is 13 percent with shadow prices adjusted. The ERR does not take into
account the benefits from positive externalities such as improved health and productivity as the
result of the better availability and quality of water cannot be quantified.
6.09   Sensitivity Analysis. A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to measure the effect of the
risk of cost-overrun, lower demand, and delay in implementation as shown in table below.
Table 6-1. Estimated Rates of Return for Various Project Scenarios
iPeo)w/r .S;ce,arie                       Lsiun eed  IRR
Base Case "most likely" scenario           13.3%
10% increase in water investment costs    12.8%
10% increase in water operating costs     13.2%
10% increase in total water costs         12.8%
20% increase in water investment costs     12.3%
20% increase in water operating costs      13.2%
20% increase in total costs                12.3%
50% lower projection water demand          10.0%
2 year delay in implementation             10.2%
Project Risks
6.10   The risks involve: (a) water consumption lower than expected due to macro conditions or
low demand for service connections; (b) and the pace at which communities would be mobilized and
sensitized to participate, and their willingness to pay for water and sanitation services. The first risk
would be mitigated by introducing an extension social connections program financed by the project
at a low cost, and by reducing water rate for the poorest portion of the population; in addition, other
donors (France, Japan, Germany) are financing in parallel water works and water connections for
households at low cost for the consumers in Conakry and in other urban centers with an extensive
connections at a low cost. The second risk would be mitigated by a systematic use of beneficiary
assessments and public information through the mayors, NGOs and community leaders. The
following activities carried out will also help to minimize the project's risks: a water demand review,
beneficiaries assessment including general survey, and willingness to pay studies. However, an
uncontrolled expansion of inadequate water operations in secondary centers could jeopardize the
financial viability of the sector; to minimize this risk, it has been agreed during negotiations that
SONEG will not make any new investment estimated to cost the equivalent of more than US$5



30
million each, until the end of the project, unless such investment is in the opinion of the Bank
technically, financially and economically viable, based on detailed financing plan and forecasts.
The implementation of sector development strategy would also help minimize any project risks. A
network rehabilitation action plan agreed between SONEG and SEEG, has already been submitted
for review to the Bank. In addition, at the end of the ongoing contract, a second-generation lease
contract, with terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, should be signed no later than July 31,
1999. On sanitation side, the completion of the ongoing institutional arrangements and cost-
recovery study and the selection of the private operator for the waste water management will be
conditions for disbursement against expenditures related to the physical component for the
sanitation works.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
7.01   The following agreements have been obtained from the Government of Guinea and
SONEG:
(a)    Submission by SONEG to IDA of its financial forecasts for at least the following
five years, with its annual operating and capital expenditure budgets for the
following year, for review no later than two months before the end of each fiscal
year (para. 2.27).
(b)    Submission by the Government and SONEG to IDA of a revised version of the
contrat-plan for the three coming years no later than two months before the end of
each fiscal year (para. 2.27).
(c)    Contracting of sewerage service management to a private operator by December,
1998 (para. 2.28 and 4.03).
(d)    Government' s counterpart funding of a total amount of $1.2 million (para. 3.07).
(e)   Implementation by SONEG, DNH, and DATU, of the agreed action plan for
improving the overall water and sanitation sector in Guinea; and project's carrying
out in accordance with the implementation manuals (para. 4.02).
(f)    Standard bidding documents recommended by the Bank will be used to prepare
the procurement documentation. A procurement plan and procedures for
management and procurement have also been submitted for review by SONEG to
IDA (para. 4.04 to para 4.07).
(g)    Submission by the Borrower and SONEG to IDA, no later than six months after
the close of their fiscal years, of auditor's reports including: audited financial
statements of the special accounts, project accounts, SOEs audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 4.10).



31
(h)    Periodic reporting by SONEG on its operating and financial performances, and
SEEG's ones, using agreed upon monitoring indicators (para. 4.10 and 4.11 ).
(i)    A project mid-term review to be carried out by May 31, 1999, involving IDA and
relevant Government agencies (para. 4.12);
()    SONEG will not make any new investment estimated to cost the equivalent of
more than US$5 million each, until the end of the project, unless such investment
is in the opinion of the Bank technically, financially and economically viable
based on detailed financing plan and forecasts (para 5.25).
(k)    Measures will be taken, including tariff adjustments, to ensure that SONEG and
SEEG's revenues generate an annual rate of return of not less than 4 percent of the
average current net value of their fixed assets for each fiscal years of 1998 and
1999, and not less than 5 percent for each of the fiscal years thereafter (para 5.25).
(l)    SONEG or the Government, on behalf of SONEG, will not enter into a borrowing
arrangement unless its projected internal cash generation would be at least equal
to the project sector debt service not reimbursed by the Government (para. 5.25).
(m)   Signing of a new management contract with terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, no later than July 31, 1999 (para. 6.10).
Conditions of effectiveness
7.02   The following will be the conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    The signature by the Governient and SONEG of a three-year rolling contract-
plan that includes an investment program acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.27).
(b)    Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Govermnent and SONEG,
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.06).
(c)    Opening by the Government of two project accounts in a commercial bank in the
names of DATU and DNH, with an initial deposit of US$150,000 for DATU and
of US$50,000 for DNH.
(d)    The settlement of the Government' s arrears to SEEG (GNF 660 million) and the
settlement of SEEG' s arrears to SONEG (GNF 608 million) (para. 5.19).



32
Condition of disbursement
7.03   The following will be the condition of disbursement:
(a)    The completion of the ongoing institutional arrangements and cost- recovery study
and the selection of the private operator for the waste water management by
December 31, 1998, will be conditions of disbursement against expenditures
related to the physical component for the sanitation works (para.2.28 and 4.03).
Recommendation
7.04   With the above agreements and actions, the proposed project would be suitable for IDA
credit of SDR 18 million (US$25.00 million equivalent) on standard terms to the Republic of
Guinea.



a           ;l     R
I   r oh                  i
5   I ,.xi a        at ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CL      a
I!. ~~~    I'.9                                           g.0..wt~L.                  C
0.             jg~.i                   1                fC  C   V
R~~~~~~~K[i
ir~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                      B






RELATIONS BETWEEN THE ACTORS
49°/e             5 1% ,
STATE                .....FOREIGN .NVESTOR.
shareholders agreement           MANAGER
sector strategy & investments                                                           management contract
entreprise contract  
NATIONAL WATER AUTHORITY                    Lease contract      WATER MANAGEMENT COMPANY
(SONEG)                                                           (SEEG)
Redevance
w              T subscription contract
*   --*   Contractual links
(CONSUMRS 
,,,...>  Ownership
4 Financial transfers
Iii   -






ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
TravaiI-Justico-Solidant6
L MIlnlstr de L'Urbanisme   LeMlnistre de I'Agricultur.   La Ministre des Ressources
et de r'abitat              des Eaux et Forts             Naturulles at de l'Energib
,L   Ff1



ANNEX 1-2
Page 2 of 7
I
I- INTRODUCTION
La prescnte lettre a pour but de d6crire la politique de d6veloppcment du Gouverncment dans le
socteur des ressources en eau ainsi que les sirat6gies et principes d'action dans les sous socteurs
de la gestion et 1'administration des caux, de l'alimentation en eau potable en milieu urbain et rural
ainsi que de l'assasinissement.
11- STRATEGIE GENERALE DU SECTFAUR
L'cau en tant que source de vie, a toujours constitui pour le Gouvernement de la Republique de
Guinde uno prfoccupation prioritaire dans sa politique dc d6veloppement social et cconornique,
tant dans les villes et agglorncrations periurbaines qu'en milieu rural.
La recherche de Ia mobilisation et la mise a disposition des usagers dc cette ressource
fondamentale a toujours occupe une place de premier plan. C'est ainsi qu'au cours de la derniere
decennie ddcretce par les Nations unies "IDcennic Internationale de 1'eau Potable et de
I'Assainissement", la Republique de Guinec avec le concours de differents partenaires au
d6veloppement, a 61abor6 et cxecute plusicurs projets de planificaLion des eaux ainsi quo
d'alimentation en eau potable et d'assainisscment. Ces Projcts ont permis de realiser diverscs
activitis de maltrise et de mobilisation des ressources eii eau ainsi que de couvrir les besoins
urgents Jes populations desservies.
La con:orence mondiale sur l'eau potable et l'assainissemcnt tenue a New Delhi en lnde en 1990, a
d6gag6 pour chaque pays la n6cessite de sc doter d'une strategie dans It secteur de l'eau.
La mise en oeuvre de la strategie de d6veloppement du sectcur scra articulce autour des sous
secteurs suivants:
* Gestion et administration des ressources en eau;
* Hydraulique urbaine;
* Hydraulique rurale; et
* Assainissement (urbain et rural)
A - GESTION ET ADMINISTRATION DES RESSOURCES EN EAU
La strat6gie sp6ciEque de cc sous sectcur s'ariicule autour de Ia mattrise et de la cohorence des
actions suivantes placoes sous la responsabili16 de la Direction Nationale de I'Ilydraulique (DNII)
qui en a la charge selon Ia Loi en vigueur portant Code dc l'Eau de la Republique de Guinee
*    R*7. +  ....   ...     ...



ANNEX 1-2
Page 3 of 7
2
e. D6finition. mnise en place des organes du Fonds de l'Hydraulique ct prise de toutes Ics
mesures utiles pour leur fonctionnement continu on vue de&participer au financement du
secteur,
f   Constitution et gestion de banque de donn6cs et d'information sur les ressources en eau
(quantit#, qualit6, utilisation); publication d'azuiuaires ct de bulletins hydrologiqucs;
g.  Formation, information sensibilisation et animation des institutions ct du public impliqu6 dans
la gestion et l'administration des eaux (services et organismes publics, collectivites
d6centralis6es et locales, utilisateurs des caux);
h.  La promotion de la cooperation internationale, inllergouvcrnementale et intercomnunautaire
en maticrc de miso en valcur et de gestion inlegr6es des ressources en eau notanunent des
caux partagees tranafionti&es
Plan d 'Actions
La plan d'actions envisage dans le sous secteur comprend principalcment ls travaux ci-aprds dont
le financenent sera assur6 par le 3cme Projet Eau et Assainissement dans sa composante "Gestion
des ressources en cau":
L.  definition globale du cadre national de gcslion et d'administration des ressources en eau ainsi
quo du r81e de planification/programriation du sec;teur;
ii.  poursuite de I'etablissement et la mise :n oeuvre de textes d'applic4tion du Code de 1'Eau et
d'a.itres Lois connexes;
iii.  mriLe en place et equipement des organes du Fonds de l'hydrauliquc a tous les niveaux requis
er. vue d'assurer le recouwrmentt des recettes (redevance pour utilisation de l'eau brute,
cortr6le de la pollution, taxes, amend-s etc.) et lour gestion,
iv.  6ftues spdcifiques permettant unc gesuion int6gric des caux de surfaces et souterraines par
bak. n versant (r6seau de survcilancc, Au .lite des eaux, lignes directrices et plan d'actions
dit. U.), d6finition des r6scaux de pr-visions hydrologiqucs, pi6zometriques ainsi que de
suii hydro-icologique;
V.  Poursuite de la formation du personnel de la Direction Nationale dc I'Hydraulique;
vi.  acquisition des 6quipemrnts logistiqucs, teciniques et scientifiques necessaires aux unit6s
op6rationnelies au niveau central, r6gional ce sub-r6gional,
vii   organisation de seminaires et aleliers ainsi que de campagnestsensibilisations i l'intention
du personnel de l'Adniinistration, la Police des caux et respectivement les collectivites
d6esntralis6ecs et les utilisatcurs des caux.
B- BYDRAULIQUE URBAINE
La Soci6t6 Nationale des Eaux de Guinee (SONFG), soci6te de patrimnoine a capital public, a 6t6
mise on place et devenue op&ratiosunelIr Ic ler Aout 1989 avec commg tAche principal.
I'approsisionn.ment an eau potable des crilrer iulrhmins do Gulni. (planifio&6ion, inv 3stiacuaz,
execution des projet, exploitation des installations, service de la dette).
La fonction "exploitation" a &d sous traitee i la Socidt6 d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guin&e
(SEEG), soci6te d'Aconomic mixte constiLu6c par l'Etat guineen ct les partenaires priv6s
profeasionnmls de l'au. Ls prestations assigndes i la SEEG font l'objet dun contrat d'exploitation
conclu avec la SONEG pour wic dur6c de 10 ans (I1988-1998). Ladoption do cc nouveau cadre
institutionnel et l'ex6cution parallile du Sccond ProjeL Eau de Conakry ont contribue i ahnliorer
sensiblanent la situation g6n6rale du secteur.



ANNEX 1-2
Page 4 of 7
3
La Strategic envisagec pour le d6veloppemcnnt du sectcur comporte:
1.  Ia realisation de travaux ncufs el de tiavaux de rchabililation en vue d'une part d'assurcr une
utilisation maximale des capacit6s actuciles dc production d'eau potabic, d'autre part de
favoriser l'acc6s i l'eau au plus grantd nombre possible de m6nages par l'execution de
branchement privds;
2.  l'adoption et l'application de mcsures appropriecs pour une lutte efficace contre les p"rtes ct
gaspillages d'eau;
3.  I'am6lioration des arrangements institutionnols adopt6s an 1988 pour les sectours urbains de
l'eau;
4.  I'adoption de mesures appropriees d'aJustement dcs tarifs en vue de parvenir a un taux de
rentabilit6 interne positif;
S.  l'application des mesures efficaces pour l'animioration du rendcment du reseau notanunent i
Conakxy; ces mesures seront ex6cuties en collaboration avec l'exploitant;
6.  I'adoption des tnesures appropri1es visant a renforcer la viabilitd financiere du secteur urbain
de l'hydraulique par I'am6lioration du taux de recouvrcment des facturcs pour les abonunes
prives et pour l'Administration.
Plan d'Actinns
Pour atteindrc les objectifs vises, Ic plan d'actions envisagd par la SONEG comporte:
Ia uise en oouvre d'un 36mo Projet Eau et Assainissernent qui scra articulc sur le programme de
travaux durgence visant le renforcernent et 1'extension des sysL6mes d'aiimentation en eau de
Conakrv. Dans le cadre du 3eme projet cau, la composante relativc a l'alimentation en eau
comport.cra principalement les travaux ci-apr-s: (i) la rehabilitation et 1'extension du reseau de
distribution d'eau de Conakry pour 300 kin de canalisation; (ii) la construction de deux r6servoirs
pour Conakry; (iii) le raccordement de quelqucs 20.000 m6nages supplementaircs a leau
courante.
Recouvrcment des factures
A partir de Janvier 1995 le Ministcre des Finances, qui est charg6 du r6glement des facturcs d'eau
de l'Administration, a d6cidc de procdder a partir dLi budget 1995 i la d6centralisation des facturcs
au niveau des diffcrents consommnateurs (Ministeres, Ltablissements ct collectivit6s publics etc.).
Cette nouvelle disposition, scion laqucile chaquc entitc est directemcnt rcsponsabic du reglement
des factures amcnera celle-ci a mieux contr6ler sa consomiiation.
C- HYDRAULIQUE RURALE
L'objectif pour ihorizon 2005 a ctd fixe a 15.000 Points d'Eau (P.E) en prenant en comnpte les
chiffres des 3 premiers niveaux d'urgences du logiciel de programnmation, los capacit6s
dabsorption des financements par le SNAPE (capacitd de r6alisation basee sur les stalistiqucs,
capacit6 d'assurer le contr6le ct l'animation des populations), les capacit6s du Minist6re des
Finances i mure on place ls contrcpartics provues dans les conventions do financerntnt, Ics
capacitcs des bailleurs de fondis a poursuivre les iznvestissernents dans le sous secteur de
I'alimcntation cn eau potable du monde rural, l'existencc d'une demande solvable de la part des
communautes. Le chiffre de  800  ouvrages par an  est apparu  au  terme de ranalyse
multidirectionnelle comme parfaitement raisonnable,



ANNEX 1-2
Page 5 of .7
4
Avec 15.000 P.E en I'an 2005, pour une population rurale estimne a 5.400.000 habitants i ecCte
6poque, la population moyenie scra de 360 habl/P.E au lieu de 625 actucllement.
La programmation 1995-2005 sera basee sur les principes suivants:
*  aptitude des b&ndficiaires a garanlir la durabilite des equipements reposant sur la prisc en
charge des frais r6currents corrcspondafit i l'entreticn et au renouvcllernent des moyens
d'exhaure;
*  rdpondre i une demande solvable pour un servicc d'une qualitc donnec i un codt donnd, les
crit6res des dernandes pouvant ctre quantitatifs ou qualitatifs (distance de partage, accessibilit6
des points d'eau, qualite de 1'eau, etc.);
*  associer les comznunaut6s au processus dc d6cision depuis la conception jusqu'i la mil en
oeuvre;
 am6liorer les conditions d'hygiene, et mettre en oeuvre des actions d'assainissemnent telle quo
1'6ducation sanitaire pour completer l'apport de l'eau potable pour la sante;
* assurer Ia pircnnitd de la prdsence des op rateurs economiqucs proches des comrnmunautes,
artisaas et commercrants, que le pi-ogratnme devra s'attacher a promoouvoir et a suivre;
  d6veioppement de J'utilisation des structures de cr6dit (rural ou mutuel) pour la mobilisation de
N'cpaigne et du crtdit pour l'accession au renouvellement des 6quipcments d'exhaurc.
Ces nouveaux objectifs imposent un r66quilibirage gcographique en faveur de la Guince Foresti6re
cl Maritimle, oz leas eaux do surface sont .ceites abondantes mais pas toujours d'acclk facile at
surtout irtpropres i la boisson. Auzenient dit., Ic criLercs d'intervention qui ont dcl jusqu'en 1995
ossentiellement quantitatifs vont pour la prockaiv.- d6ceMie devenir surtout qualitatifs: qualit6 dc
i'cau en premier lieu, puis qualitc du service. La selection dcs villages i dquiper se fera dans le
respect des principcs pr6cidents. La prograimatiuni des r6alisations s'appuicra sur une promotion
des demanides d'6quipements menees a parLir des bascs r6gionales ainsi qu'a l'occasioli des etudes
de faisabii5t6 des projets et de Ieur cxecution.
Pour perniettre de maniere effective la durabilit6 des equipements qui repose sur sa pLisc en charge
par les unapcrs, le dispositif de suivi maintenance s'oriente d'abord vers I'accroissement des
structures regionales qui en sont charg,6es afin qu';l y ait correspondance avec Ics nouvelles regions
administratives, en mime temps une serie d'actions d6vclopp6es au chapitrc 4 de V'annexe 2, d6ji
en cours seront poursuivies et d'autrcs nouvelles seront rises en oeuvre.
Plan d'Acrions
Le 3 eme ,,rojet comporto uno composantc aliinentation cn eau et l'assainisseiment des villages.
Cette coni. Nosantc pilote comprend: (i) un prograinmc de distribution d'eau et d'assainzsscment au
niveau dt~ comnunautes; Cii) la promotion d'un programme d'education et dhygiene pour
mobiliser et fonner lea menages.
Cetto composante soutiendra 6galemcnet Ic SN AE pour 6tablir un progranime d'alimentation en
eau ct d'assainissemcnt an milieu rural ci iliettr en place un syst6me pilote d'assainissemcnt en
nilicu rural (assainissement A faible coOt), an associant, au deli des communaut6s, les ONG ct ou
les autres agences privdes intervenant en milieu rural avec le d6veloppement de programme
d'6ducation publique et d'hygienc.
Le plan d'actions envisag6 par le SNAPIi dians Ic cadre de ses activites se r6sume ainsi qu'il suit:



ANTNEX 1-2
Page 6 of 7
5
i. poursuite des actions en cours. prograiimatioi, planificatinrr;suivi ivaluatioiA, pJdtage cles
roaponabelit6s;
ii. d6centralisation, cxtensions des actions a 1'cnsemble du pays: 6quipement des ccntres
seconaires;
iii. coordination avec les autres scrvices intervenant dans lc secteur de l'eau;
iv. assainissement, suivi de la ressource-impact sanitaire;
v. vulgarisation agricole.
D- ASSAINISSEMENT URBAIN
Le Prograirne d'Amelioration del'Environnement Urbain et de I'AssninisscliLnnt de Conoksy
(PADEULAC ) u. pour objec.tif cssential d'aniliurer la situation physique, sanitaire et socio-
economique de la population urbaine de mnaniere significative par:
- la r6habilitation d'infrastructures urbaines (dont le rdscau d'cgout de Kaloum, Kip6, Universite,
Dixinn, viabWisation des marches, rehabilitation de la voiric non revetue);
- la rtalisation d'op6rations d'amenagement de terrains et d'espaccs publics;
- I'arndioration des services urbains de base tdrainage ct ramassage des ordurcs).
- Promotion des activt6s de recyclagc dcs d6chets
Les m6canismes de financemeiit reposent sur les principes suivants:
*   adaptation du niveau des services urbains aux ressources effectivement mobilisables auprcs
de leurs benificiaires,
*   d6centraUisation maxinale des setvices urbains afin de perrnettre la r6cup6a atiion de 1cur coOt
par un paicziaLnt direct de leui s bdndficiaircs;
*   facturation aux administraLions publiques des frais r6els des services urbains dozit clies
bn6ficient afin d'assurer une transparcnce des couts, en remplarant notamment les
subventions d'6quilibrcs par les dotations budgetaires; et
* financement des services non d6centralisables ou non facturables (infrastructures prirnaires et
secondaires) par des budgets de IT'Eat, de la ville et de cormnunes en fonction de I'airc
respective desserte de l'infrastructure conceinde (identification des usagers/beneficiaires)-
En premiere phase le 3eme Projet Eau et Assainissenciet comporte dans sa composantc
assainissement Faction suivante:
Assainissenient des eaux usees ct des cxcreta:
Etude institutionzielle et recouvromczit des coats pour la gestion du r6seau d'eaux usies de
Conakry; identification d'un opdraLeul prive pour la gestion des eaux usees; rehabilitation et
extension du reseau collectif existant; promotion des technologies autonomes d'assainissemcnt
individuel pour la plus grande partie de la population urbaine (programme de sensibilisation et de
formation); ameiioration des circuits de vidange des fosses par l'amnnagement et la gestion des
latrines publiqucs existantes et construction dc nouvelics latrines publiques lorsque les conditions
de gestion de ces equipements justifieront de tels investissements (equipcmcnts et participation
communautaires, comitds de gestion, operateurs prives); et traitement des effluents par  des
stations de lagunage.



ANNEX 1-2
Page 7 of 7
6
Z. CALENDRIER
Un calcndrier dstailld dc mise cn ocuivre dcs actions et principcs definis ci-dcssus cst
don6 dans les tabicaux joint ci-apr6s.
Fait a Conakry le... ..........I6
Le Ministre de L'Urbanismc  Le Ministre de l'Agriculturc  Le MinisLre des Ressources
ct de I'Habitat                des Eaux et Forets               Naturelles ct de IlEncrgic
Dr. Aplha ousls8/ tn   PsuL FIMF2£1                                                      \I






ANNEX 1-3
Page 1 of 2
Sector.! Stra1v Letter for the Imorovement of Urban Sanitadon
A     sa result of the Mash 1993 seminar. a sectoral sty letter for the improvement of urban sanitation
dwas eveloped an atified by the participants. It serves as a frae of reference for the various actors of
the sector and has most notably served as a basis for developing the third IDA projet on urbn
nitation and the environment
SECTORAL STRATEGY LETTER FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE URBAN SANfTATION
1. Geneal orfncides
Desire to attack simultaneously the problems caused by;
deeioration ot the urban emironment
poverty and under-employment in the city; and
debriorafton of public financing.
Implementation of an approach aimed at:
O developing human resources at all levels of intervention;
O  promoting end supporting grassroots-level initiatves (listening, awareness-aising, training);
O  mobilizing the unemployed labor force by promoting appropriate technologies, using whenever possible smal
and medium-sized businesses and labor-intensive methods;
O progressively assuring replicablity of operations by matdcing thm to human resources and available
flnancial resources and by use of mechanisms which allow for continued cost recovery of services renderecd
and
O choosing technical solutions which emphasize on-site, decentralized and evoMng solutions, with maximum
participation of the target population.
2- Insftufnal f/tmework
Need for clear assignment of roles and responsibilities among public and private sector agencies and
benefiidaries, as regards training, project design, funding, implementation, management and maintenance.
Q Identification of priorKy actions, by means of responding to and dialogue with the populations concemed, by
encouraging their participation and representation in residents' assocations, NGO's, and neighborhood,
district and city councils;
O Approval and montoring of the Strategic Sanitation Plan In its environmental aspects by the National Council
on the Environment;
O Creaton of the Committee for the Strategic Sanitation Plan which will replace the Monitoring Committee of
the PADEULAC. This committee will associate the relevant administrative services, the districts, NGOC and
other organizations which are active in the urban sanitation sector.;
O design and preparation of annual action programs (consciousness-raising, training, implementation) by the
Technical Services of the city and the districts (Integrating in particular the experience and lessons leamed by
the UPSU, the PADEULAC, and the PADSEICAT/IDA);
O approval of the action plans by the City Council;
O management of the serAices under the jurisdiction of the decentralized administrative services,
Implementation and tasks assigned to the private sector;
O contractng authority: AGECO or any other specialized organization, which will be assigned the task of
managing the maintenance, rehabilitation and construction of infrastructures and public spaces, carried out
by small and medium-sized businesses using labor-intensive techniques.
3. Funding mechanisms
In order to ensure the replicability of the actions to be undertaken, funding mechanisms will be based on the
following principles:
O adaptation of the level of urban services to the resources actually available to the beneficiaries;
O maximum decentralization of urban services in order to allow for cost recovery by means of direct payment
PADEIA.AC - Summary of Strategc Proposals                                         p



ANNEX 1 3
Page 2 of 2
by the beneficiaries (short circuit):
O  biling of public administrative services for the actual cost of the urban services which they rec  In order to
ensure accuacy of costs, In particular by replacing subsidies by budgetary allocations; and
 financing of services which cannot be decentralized or billed (primary and secondary infrastructures) by state.
municipal or district budgets, depending on the respective coverage zone of the infrastructure in question
(identification of users/beneficiaries).
4. Hkh Pforitv Actions
4.1     Wastewaer and ercrete disposal
a  promotion of on-site sanittion technologies (improvement of existing fcilities and/or construction of Improved
latrines) for the majority of the urban population (via consciousness4ralsing and training programs);
a improvement of drcuits for emptying of latrine pits by Installing and managing dump sites (immediate choicoe of
sit of OBK oxydation ponds) and training and promotion of sanittion agents who will do the emptying;
O Improvement of managemnnt of ewdsting public latrines and construction of new latrines when conditions justiy
such Investments (community equipment, management committees, private operators); and
O treatment of city sewage by oxydation ponds (immediate choice of site of Petit Bateau).
4.2    Impovwement of solid waste managent
O support for organization of pre-collection and'armnging for dumping sites;
a privatization of collection services for solid wastes;
a direct payment by the beneficiaries (households, neighboring communities, buinesses, markets, administrative
servies) for the services which they receive; and
3 arrangement of the Miniere site as a controlled landfill to be managed by a privt. contractor.
4.3     DrOIng and urban Infrastructures
0  Reduction of volume of water to be drained by construction of smaU dikes and  tering mechanisms upsbm
a  improvement of the functioning of existing drinage mechanisms (secondary and tetiary networs) by a
program of continuing maintenance (cleaning), periodic mainenance (repair) and rehabilitation (critical pointsd
and
0  improvement of the cleanliness of the adminitative and busines district, collective equipment and maukts, by
sweeping and cleaning operations assigned to private contractor.
4.4      mprovemnt of the environment within neghborhoods
Support for grassroots-level initifatives and for taking of responsibility by the population concemed for managing
maintenance and Improvement of4hder Immediate environment by means of integrated trining programs.
consdousness-aising and micro-installations as follows:
0 wastewater and excreta disposal: (i) promotion of on-site technologies for indMdual and public latrines; (li)
disposal of wastewater (soakaway pits, infiiterafion ditches), and (tii) latrines, showers and public washhoues;
0  improvement of solid waste management (i) organization of pre-collection; (tt) equipping of dump sites;
O drainage and urban infrastructures: (i) small dikes and drainage ditches; (ii) protection against erosion; (tti)
cleaning and maintenance of drainage ditches; and
O arrangement of public spaces: (t) sweeping, maintenance and arrangement of public spaces, (ti) gardens; (il)
arrangement of pedestrian walkways; and (iv) neighborhood beautification.
. Secon vel orlondtv wctions
A1      Wshtwater and *xerets disposal
a Identification of a private contractor for management of the network for wastewater disposal, and a funding
mechanism; rehabilitation of the existing collective network and extension to densely-populated neighborhoods
and heavy polluters:
52      lmpwoement of solid waste management
0 promotion of activities for recycling of waste
O construction of a new landfill
5.3     Drainage and urban infrastructures
0 small construction projects (sidewalks, public open spaces), gardens and maintenance of public parks
4       Imprvnement of the environment within neighborhoods
0 Improve_ent of solid waste management sorting of trash by the consumer, recycling, re-use.



PROJECTED TEN-YEAR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(US s '000)
1995          1996          1997           1998          1999          2000          2001           2002          2003          2004          Total
SECOND WATER PROJET                      12,930         6,790           720            -             -             -              -             -             -             -           20,440
IDA loan                             5,491         3,256           -              -             -             -                                                                    8,747
Odter loas                           5,239         2,465           720            -             -             -                                                                    8,424
Grants                                480            -             -              -             -             -             -              -             -             -             480
Seff-finacing                        1,720         1,070           -              -             -             -             -             -              -             -           2,790
THIRD WATER PROJECT                         -             175          6,887        17,305         14,470         5,653           -             -             -             -           44,488
Conakry (IDA)                         -             145          4,624          6,443         4,412         2,015           -              -             -             -          17,638
Conakry (odter lons)                  -              -             289          6,324         5,891         2,788           -              -             -             -          15,292
Second Cete  (other lo)               -              -             944          1,938         1,998           -             -             -              -             -           4,879
Grants                                -              20            690          1,730         1,450           570           -              -             -             -           4,460
Self-fincing                          -              10            340           870           720            280           -             -              -             -           2,220
OTHERPROJECTS                            15,950        35,880         18,010         4,000           -            2,380         2,450           -             -             -           78,670
Loans                               10,060        19,490        11,360          4,000           -             -              -             -             -             -          44,910
Grants                               5,890        16,390         6,650            -             -           2,380          2,450           -             -             -          33,760
Self-financing                        -              -             -                                          -                    -              -                    -             -
FOURTH WATERPROJECT                         -             -             -              -             -             406         18,280        29,770        12,320          1,360        62,136
IDA loan                              -             -             -              -             -             306          4,565         6,877         2,032           -           13,779
Other loas                            -              -             -             -              -             -            8,646        14,634         6,869           990        31,138
Grants                                -              -             -             -              -              50         2,740          4,460         1,850           200         9,300
Self-financing                        -              -             -             -              -              50         2,330          3,800         1,570           170         7,920
Gmnd Total                         28,880         42,845        25,617        21,305         14,470         8,439        20,730        29,770         12,320         1,360       205,734
IDA loans                           5,491          3,400         4,624          6,443         4,412         2,321         4,565          6,877         2,032           -          40,163
Loans                               15,299       21,955         13,313         12,262         7,888         2,788         8,646         14,634         6,869          990        104,642
Gmnts                                6,370        16,410         7,340          1,730         1,450         3,000          5,190         4,460         1,850           200        48,000
Self-flnsndng                        1,720         1,080           340           870           720           330          2,330         3,800          1,570           170        12,930
aqN
o -
M,l
0






ANNEX 1-5
Page 1 of 5
GESTION DES RESSOURCES EN EAU
TERME DE REFERENCE
I- INTRODUCTION
1 - Cadre general
Le troisieme projet eau et assainissement de la Guinee qui sera cofinance par la Banque
Mondiale et par d'autres bailleurs de fonds a trois objectifs principaux: (a) Social (i)
augmenter l'acces a 1'eau potable des menages, surtout dans les quartiers a faibles revenus et
surpeuples de Conakry et dans certains centres secondaires; (ii) dans le milieu rural, creer un
contexte favorable a la prise en charge effective de l'alimentation en eau potable et de
l'assainissement et l'education sanitaire par les communautes rurales en fonction de leur
capacite financiere reelle; (b) La gestion des ressources en eau (i) mettre en place une strategie
nationale de la gestion des ressources en eau; (ii) mettre en place une strategie du
developpement du secteur de l'eau potable et de I'assainissement; (c) Renforcer le cadre
institutionnel du secteur.
2 - La Republique de Guinee appartient a la zone du climat tropical dont l'une des
caracteristiques principales est I'alternance au cours de l'annee de deux saisons s&he et
humide qui commande le regime des eaux dans leur cycle naturel.
La position geographique particuliere du pays par rapport a la c6te Atlantique du continent
ainsi que les caracteristiques de son relief et de son reseau hydrographique conferent a la
dorsale guineenne un r6le de veritable chateau d'eau naturel pour l'Afrique occidentale;
La Loi guineenne en vigueur definit les ressources en eau comme d( 1'ensemble des eaux
continentales de la Republique de Guinee dans toutes les phases du cycle de l'eau >, et elle
definit la gestion rationnelle de ces ressources comme l< 1'ensemble des mesures a prendre afin
d'en assurer l'inventaire quantitatif et qualitatif permanent, la protection, la mise en valeur et
l'utilisation optimale, compte tenu des besoins sociaux, economiques et culturels de la
Nation )>.
1'ensemble des instruments directeurs regissant les procedures et modalites de gestion
rationnelle des ressources en eau guineenne doivent prendre en compte les caracteristiques
physiques et hydro-ecologiques particulieres mentionnees ci-dessus.
II - SITUATION ACTUELLE DES RESSOURCES EN EAU
2.1 - Contexte h% droclimatologique
Quatre regions 11,Aurelles differenciees aux plans hydroclimatologiques et ecologiques
composent le territoire national guineen:
* La Guinee Maritime: environ 34.600 Km2 de superficie constituee en tine bande longeant la
c6te Atlantique sLir pres de 300 km, avec une pluviometrie moyenne annuelle de 2.500 mm
repartie sur 6 a 7 inois de Mai a Novembre;



ANNEX 1-5
Page 2 of 5
* Ia Moyenne Guinee: environ 67.000 km2 de superfice dominee par le Massif du Fouta
Djallon, avec des precipitations de 1.700 mm en moyenne par an, reparties sur 5 a 6 mois
de Mai a Octobre;
* Ia Haute Guinee: environ 113.000 km2 correspondant au bassin superieur du Niger en
Guinee, avec 1.500 mm de pluviometrie annuelle, repartie sur 5 mois de Juin a octobre;
* Ia Guinee Forestiere: environ 30.800 kin2, constituee d'ecosystemes montagneux domines
par le Massif du Daro et la chaine des Monts Nimba, avec 2.250 mm de pluie annuelle
repartie sur 9 A 10 mois de mars A Novembre.
Le reseau hydrographique rayonne A partir de la dorsale guineenne qui traverse le pays du
Nord-Ouest au Sud-Est comprenant les massifs dominants du Fouta Djallon et du Daro-
Nimba.
Du massif foutanien et de ses contreforts occidentaux partent les principaux fleuves soudano-
saheliens vers le Nord (Koliba-Corubal, Gambie, S6n6gal) et cotier vers l'Ouest et le Sud-
Ouest (Cogon, Tinguilinta, Fatala, Konkoure, Forecariah, Melakhoure, Kolente ou Leattle
Scarcies et Kaba- Mongo ou Great Scarcies).
Des contreforts orientaux du Massif du Fouta Djallon et du massif du Daro-Nimba partent le
fleuve Niger vers le Sahel et les fleuves forestiers dont les principaux sont la Makona-Moa, la
Lofa, le Diani - Saint Paul, le Mani - Saint John et la Cavaly.
Ainsi on compte quatorze fleuves transfrontieres prenant leurs sources de la dorsale guineenne
et qui arrosent directement en aval de vastes territoires de onze (11) pays de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest que sont Benin, Cote d'lvoire, Gambie, Guinee-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritanie,
Niger, Nigeria, Senegal et Sierra Leone.
2.2 - Situation des eaux souterraines
Les ressources en eaux souterraines de la Republique de Guinee sont peu connues, les etudes
d'inventaires et d'evaluation y relatives sont fragmentaires et ponctuelles, n'interessant que
des projets d'alimentation en eau potable d'etablissement humains localises.
III - STRATEGIE DE DEVELOPPEMENT A METTRE EN PLACE
Elle s'articule autour de la maitrise des actions suivantes:
3.1 - Inventaire et evaluation quantitative et qualitative continue des ressources en eau
Une meilleure connaissance des ressources en eau disponibles et mobilisables, aussi bien les
eaux souterraines que de surface, est prealable pour la planification de leur utilisation dans les
divers secteurs de l'economie d'eau (alimentation en eau; irrigation et drainage;
hydroelectricit6; etc.);
3.2 - Mise en place de systemes de prevision hydrologique et de suivi hydro-ecologique
integr6 des bassins fluviaux de Guinie



ANNEX 1-5
Page 3 of 5
Ces systemes assurent d'une part la prevention et le suivi des impacts du developpement du
systeme d'utilisation des eaux (agriculture irriguee, industrie, alimentation en eau potable des
etablissements humains , etc.) sur les ressources disponibles en quantite et en qualite. et,
d'autre part, le suivi du systeme des ressources naturelles en relation avec les eaux
(ecosystemes aquatiques).
3.3 - Planification generale et sectorielle de mise en valeur et d'utilisation des ressources
en eau
Elle se fera en respectant les unites de base de la gestion des ressources en eau que sont le
(< bassin versant)> ou le << groupe de bassins de versants >> et en tenant dfument en compte
l'approche integre des divers objectifs sociaux et economiques de developpement ainsi que le
caractere d'interet partage de certains cours d'eau transfronti&es.
3.4 - Mise en place d'un cadre legislatif et reglementaire approprie pour la gestion
durable des ressources en eau et pour l'administration des droits d'eau
Le systeme d'utilisation multiple des ressources en eau avec les besoins quelque fois
contradictoires des divers usagers, combine aux caracteristiques hydro-ecologiques des
bassins versants, entrainent l' urgente necessite de doter l 'administration d' instruments
juridiques necessaires pour regir toutes les activites liees a l'inventaire, 1'evaluation, la mise
en valeur, la conservation et l'utilisation des ressources en eau de Guinee.
3.5 - La mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel et administratif coherent en harmonie
avec celui des autres composantes du secteur de l'eau
La gestion saine et efficace des ressources en eau ndcessite des organismes et services
organises et dotes des capacites necessaires et suffisantes aux plans des ressources humaines
et financieres, notamment par la mise en place des organes du Fonds de l'Hydraulique et
l'organisation de leur fonctionnement.
3.6 - La promotion et le developpement d'activites de recherche-developpement, de
communication et de formation interessant le secteur de 1'eau
Les ressources en eau en tant que composante essentielle de l'environnement interessent tous
les secteurs de developpement economique et social. Leur maitrise et leur gestion concernent
et doivent preoccuper tous les acteurs de ce developpement (Etat, Chercheurs, operateurs
economiques des secteurs public et prive, populations rurales et urbaines, bailleurs de fonds et
d'assistance). C'est pourquoi une attention soutenue dans ces domaines doit etre observde
pour assurer un developpement durable de la Nation.
3.7 - La promotion de la cooperation internationale, intergouvernementale africaine et
intercommunautaire en matiere de mise en valeur et de gestion integrec des
ressources en eau
L'ampleur des besoins en ressources humaines, techniques, technologiques et financieres pour
la mise en valeur et la gestion des ressources en eau, notamment des eaux transfrontieres en
Guinee, entraine la necessite de deployer des programmes de cooperation tant au niveau



ANNEX 1-5
Page 4 of 5
national entre les communautes riveraines des fleuves nationaux. qu'a celui
intergouvernemental sous-regional entre les Etats riverains des fleuves originaires de Guinde
et celui international avec les institutions specialisees du systemes des Nations Unies, de
l'OUA et de la CEDEAO.
IV - PLAN D'ACTIONS: TACHES A ACCOMPLIR
II s'articule autour des sous-composantes ci-apres:
4.1 Definition du cadre national pour gestion globale et l'administration des ressources en
eau de Guinee;
4.2 Renforcement du cadre Iegislatif et reglementaire regissant les eaux en Guinee;
4.3 Renforcement des capacites d'intervention des organismes et services de la Direction
Nationale de I'Hydraulique charges:
a) de l'inventaire et de I'evaluation quantitative et qualitative permnanente des ressources en
eau;
b) de la prevision hydrologique et le suivi hydro-ecologique des cours d'eau de Guinee;
c) des etudes de planification generale et sectorielle des ressources en eau;
d) des etudes et de la realisation de projets d'ouvrages et amenagements hydrauliques
experimentaux pilotes
e) de la legislation-reglementation des ressources en eau et de I'administration des droits
d'eau en Guinee;
f) du suivi-coordination des programmes et projets de cooperation relatifs aux ressources en
eau de Guinee, ainsi que de concertation inter-institutions nationales, de gestionnaires et
usagers des eaux;
V - CALENDRIER DE MISE EN OEUVRE DU PLAN D'ACTIONS
(voir tableau ci-dessous)



VOLET GESTION D0 RMSOURCES EN EAU
CALENDRIER DE MISE EN OEUVRE DU PLAN D'ACTIONS
No                     Sous-programme                       Durde           1998             1999             2000             2001             2002
assistance                                     .__
Semi   Sem2   Semi   Scm2   Sem I   Sem2   Semi   SIm2   SemI   Sem2
I      Preparation du seminaire                            3 semestres
2      Elaboration du document introduction Seminaire,     3 semestres
3      Synth6se ci rapport sdminaire                       3 semestrcs
4      Harmonisation ligislation                           S semestres
5      Administration des droits d'cau                     6 semestres
6      Mise en place fonds de I=i)ydraulique               4 se_estres
7      Formation personnel DNH                             7 semestres
8      Equipements informatiques et formation              4 semestres
9      Equipements logistiques                             2 semestres   -_                                   __
10     Acqisition de  atricl                               S semestres-                             --
o  1
*__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   -   -   0 V






Rkeicqzh din COW dui wais
tyede ft"w       a                                         unite    prni   quanth     Total    1997        199S                         200            I01        20
c_J)                                                                 unitaim  twale     Cost            son.   i      sesem12  son. I m2 sem. 2i  sem. 2 sm. I
.________    _______________KUSS       KUSS    ___
L Hydraique nrbuoie (L*hm J  1sqL)
Ft   (&4,)      EWudsAPDctDAO(s*)                             H/M                21        420             50    100    100    100       70
Aul_c (rwc Ant  Asnce Technique SONEG (Calrt.)               Ann6e                  1       200                    50      50     50      50
RItsaous (asw) Extesmion rservoir simbaya (asrap ,srnwr)        m3      0.46   2 500       1163                                  163    300    350    300       50
R6enoirs (awg) Rhxvoir i deux cuva cime(aie ( rnw)              m3      0.46    1500        697  .                        197    200    200    100
Rdhabilitation   Ramplacementtyau cite de lair(200. 100)         m      0.06    8 800       500                    100    150    150    100
(RehabUada)      (Repiaeam ofrpipelin dar 2100 -)
Extension (pipelne Conduite d'eau trait6e (DN I 100)             m      0.64    3 300      2 120                                                350    650    700    420
(7-ed w.epone)
R6seaux principaux Raccords au rdser. cimenterie (DN400)         m      0.34    2500        862                                                 262    300    300
(Coiercg to cemete ry servoir)
Rseaux principaux Rseaux principux (200-400mm)                   m      0.22    7 869      1731                           231    300    400    500    300
Mhipopelhws)     (MbInpldher cws  r 200-0r)
Rdseaux secondaire Reseaux secondaires(100-250mm)                m      0.06   45833       2750                           350    400    500    600    600    300
(aecodyp0d.bws)
R6seaux tertiaires  Reseaux tertiaires(60-80mm)                  m      0.03   70 700      2121                           221    300    350    350    350    350    200
(t-r -)oyps)
Branchements     Branhements (c d-ecu)                            u     0.18    9 000      1 620                          220    250    250    250    250    200    200
Branchements     Densification r6seau/branchements               m      0.02   76500       1,530                          130    150    250    250    250    300    200
(C-el)           (DiLtribhtkpl,pcbw.aConeciloa,)
Supervision      Supervision (Styervision)                   h/mois   20.00       40        800                           100    100    100    150    ISO    100    100
Total 1 CoOt de base (Base Cost)                                        16,514            50    250   1749   2163   2570   3162   3150   2300   1120
Aleas physiques (Physical C-irngencies)                                  1,652             5      25    175    216    257    317    315    230    112
Al6as financiers (P11cc condninc,es)                                      434               I      6     39      57     72     89      82     60      28
_______________ CoOt rotal 1 (Total I costI  _____2_ _____              18,600   _         t6   261   1963   2436   2899   3566   364U   2690   1260
2. Gestion des ressources en can
(Cowidttt Service)  (Wc Re       M- aJ)
Formation        Prdparation du sdminaire (Seituarpreparation)  h/mois             3         40             15      15     10
Formation        Elaboration de doc. s6minaire (prep. nmina doc)    h/mois         3         40             10      15     15
Formation        Synthese et rapport s6minaire (mainar rapo prep.)   h/mois        2         30                            10      10     10
Etudes           Harmonisation ligislation (Waw Lgisadon Snidy   h/mois            6         80                            10     20      20     1 5     i 
Etudes           Administration des droits de l'eau (stuay)  h/mois                6         80                                   10      15     20      IS     10      10
Etudes           Fonds hydraulique (waterFuFd study)         h/mois                4         40                                                  10      1 0    10      10
Formation        Formation personnel DNH (trainng)           h/mois                6        120                            25      15     15     20      20     15      10
Equipements      Equipements informatiques (computers)                                      150                            50     50      30     20
Equipements      Equipements logistiques (vehKles)                                          [so                                   20      30     30      30     30      10
Equipements      Acquisition de mat6riel (officc supply)                                    150                            30     40      40     30      10
Tsta 2 CoGt de base (retd 2 Base Cost)                                    550             25     30    150    165    160   1B15    100        65      40
Al6as physiques (Phyical Conrigearle-s)                                     92             3       3      16     17     16      15     i I      7      4
Aldas Financiers (Price Cotingencies)                                      28               I      2      4       5      5       5      3       2      1
Colt Total 2 (Total 2 Base Cost)                                         1000             29      35    170    187    181    165    114       74      45           J 
co 2



R6captut des coOts du projet
type de travaux   description                                  unite     prix   quantite    Total    1997       1999            1              2000 201                   2002
(CqcpnsIC)                                                             unitaire  totale     Cost   s 2sm.I ii         sem. 2  sem. I scm. 2  sem. I sem. 2    I   ms      sem. I
KUSS               KUSS
3. Getion des ddcbets (wasteivat)_
Eawdes f,Av*')    Elude institutionefle (en tours)
Eudes (s14)       Diagnostic du rcseau enterrUcurage (clean out)    h/mois   15.00   20         300            150    150
Enude (:-d)       APD rchabilitation du rdseau (study          h/mois   15.00        20        300              50    150    100
Etudes (snu4)     APD rehabilitation Bassin OBK (study)        h/mois    15.00        13       200              50    100      50
Contrt de gestion  Selection du gestionnaire (Consuiont service)  h/mois   18.50       8        150            100      50
Rchabilitation    Rhhabilitation reseau et lagunage OBK                                        1500                           100    300    400    400    200    100
(Rel-lialon)      (Eristingfacdiltles Rehalbitiatlon)
Constuction       Bassinsde lagunage(conu.trearntpiond)                                       4000                            200    400    500    700    800    800    600
Formation         Formation de vidangeurs/Artisans             h/mois    9.00        21        200                             50      50      50      50
(rr-inl,g)        (Job- ltainng)
Supervision       Supervision assainissement (Work supervision)  h/mois   18.50      37        700                             50    100    100    100    150    100    100
rotal 3 Cofit de base (Total 3 Base Cost)                                   7350            350    450    550    850   1050   1250   1150   1000    700
Aleas physiques ( Phsical conlngencles)                                      856              35     45      61      99    126    153    140    120        77
Aides financiers (Price Contingencies)                                       194               8      10     14      23     30      35      30      26      18
Coft Total 3 (Towi3 Cost)                                                   8400            393    505    625    972   1206   1438   1320   1146    795
Total ProjeDt Cost
Grand total CoOt du Prolet
Total 1 (SONEG)                                18600              56    281   1963   2436   2899   3568   3547   2590   1260
Total 2 (DNH)                                 1000             29      35    170    187    181    165    114         74      45
Total3(DATU)                                   8400            393    505    625    972   1206   1438   1320   1146    795
Grand Total                                280001            478    821   2758   3595   42861  5171   4981   3810   21 00
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
t-i



ROcfkiW does coOtd pruIs
description                             Total         Toit        PanGvtPtiIDA Procuremint cadtone depenses
Devises  Local   local                           (Ca iy)
1. Hydraullque Urbaiae (Urhm wJat)
Etudes APWDAO (study)                      420      420                         420 SL           Consultants
Asise Tech. (Te,* Assist.)                 200      200                         200 SL           Consultants
Reservoir Simbaya (smbqvay raerwor)      1163       814      349       116     1047 ICD          Genic Civil (ciwi rks)
Reservoir deux cuves (stog  merser)        697      487      210       70       627 ICD          Genie Civil
Remplacement tuyau cite de l'air (200- 100)  500    400      100       50      450 ICB           G6nie Civil
Rerent ofpipline (200-100  .)
Conduite d'eau trait6e (DNI 100) (petllne)  2 120  1696      424      212      1908 ICB          G6nie Civil
(Treaed  rp4ieln)
Raccords au rser. cimenterie (DN400)       862      690       172       86      776 ICB          Genie Civil
(Cotuicng to cewetry resernir)
R6seaux principaux (200-400mm)            1 731    1384      347       173     1558 ICB          G6nie Civil
(Mn pipeles dJa-er 200e-4000.)
Rdseaux secondaires(l00-250mm)            2750     1930      828      276    2482 ICB            G6nic Civil
(Secwmhstpoimh )
Reseaux tertiaires(60-80mm)               2121     1484      637       191     1930 ICB          Genie Civil
cr(enia,pplines)
Branchements (cor'ections)                1 620    1200      420       162     1458 ICB          Genic Civil
Densification rdseaubranchements          1530     1100      438       154     1384 ICB          G6nie Civil
(DisributihappelbwislCoemectlons)
Supervision (                              800      800                 40      760 SL           Consultants
Total I Coltdebase (Taouldbwcm)         16514   12605    3925        1530   15000
Altes physiques (Pyka Contingenies)       1652     1261
Aleas Financiers (Prke Conosexcies)        434      316
Total I Coat (Total I cost)              1800    14162       4416     16WC    16s00
2. Gestion des resborces en esn
Preparation du e6minaire (Seu.rprepart)     40       30        10                40 SL           Consultants
Preparation doc.s6minaire (seuiwardJc prep.  40      40                          40 SL           Consultants
Rapport seminaire (Sea rprt)                30       20        10                30 SL           Consultants
HrmnonisatonLdgistation Eau Qkgie&atms 8n    0       70        10       10       70 SL           Consultants
istrationlDroit de l'eau (Water Low study)  80       70        10       10       70 SL           Consultants
FondsHydr. (WaterFwmdseub.)                 40       30        10       10       30 SL           Consultants
Formation (trawng)                         120      100       20        20      100 SL           Consultants
Equipements Informatiques (Conputers)      150      135        15       15      135 SL           Fournituwe (equipment)
Equipements logistiques (vehdes)           ISO      135        15       15      135 SL           Foumiture
Materiel de bureau (offkce sup,y)          150       50       100       15      135 SL           Fourniture
Total2Codtde ba s(otoA2 Mre ouo)           JW       6o0      200       95       715
Aldas physiques (hysikal contingencies)     92
AIdeas financiers (pice contingencies)      28
CoOtTotsl 2 (rotla2ca)                    1000      773      227       100      900                                                              O



Rbcaiuatif des coOts du projet
description                              ota         Total      Part vt      IDA Procurement categone depenses
Devises Local   local
3. Gestion des dechets (wastewater)
Etude institutionellc (en cours)                                                  SL           Consultants
Diagnostic reseau/curage (cleaning out)   300      250       50       50      250 SL           Consultants
APD rehabilitation reseau (sudy)          300      300                        300 SL            Consultants
APD rehabilitation bassin OBK (Sudy)      150      150                        150 SL            Consultants
Selection du gestionnaire (Consl. service)  100    100                        100 SL           Consultants
Rehabilitation reseau et lagunage OBK    1500    1275       225      225     1275 ICB          Gcnie Civil (civi et )
(O5K -.rLngfacillties rehobilolathn)
Bassins de lagunage (ponds costruction)  4000    3400       600      600    3400 ICB           Genie Civil
Formation de Vidangeurs/Artisans          200      100      100      100      100 SL            Consultants
(o-Job. frangforartimans)
Supervision (snperisvilo)                 700      700                        700 SL            Consultants
Total 3 Cofit de base (Tot 3 base cost)  7250    6275       975      975    6275
Aleas physiquei s(phwacomtgencies)        927
Aleas financiers (price contIgencies)     223
Cofit Total 3 (Towr3 mm)                 8400    7270    1130    1100    7300
Tol Pject Cost
Grand total CoOt du Prolet
TotedI    18600                                                          Govmtr 1200
Total 2   1000                                                           SONEG:180C
Total 3   8400                                                                  3000
Grand Total   28000



ANNIM2-
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1997       1998           1999           2000            2001       2002
sem.2 sem. I sem.2 sem. I sem.2 sem. 1 sem.2 sem. I sem.2 sem.l.
Hydrrillque urbaine (Urban Water)
Etudes/APD et DAO(Study)
sistance technique SONEG(TechAssist.)                                _               -      -
Extcnsion reservoir simbaya(reservoir)                                                 _       -       -      _
R6servoir A 2 cuves cimenterie(storage reservoir)
Remplacement tuyau cite de l'air(200-100)
onduite d'eau traitee(DN I 00)piMpeline)                                                            -       -      -       -
Raccords au r6ser.cimenterie(DN400)                                                                    -      -       -
Rcseaux principaux(200-400nim)                                                 _       -       _       -      -
R6seaux secondaires(100-250mm)                                                 _                      -
Reseaux tertiaires(60-80mm)                                                    _       _       _                      -      -
Branchements(connections)                                                      -       -       -      _               -
Densification reseau/branchements                                              _                      -
Supervision Conakry                                                            _               -      -                      -
Gesdon des Ressources en ecau (WRM)
Preparation du s6minaire(Seminarpreparation)
Elaboration de doc.seminaire
Synthese et rapport seminaire(Seminar report)
Harmonisation legislation(legislation study)                                   -               -      -
Administration des droits de 1'eau(water law study)                                    -       -      -       -       _
Fonds hydrauliques(waterfund setting)                                                                 -
Formation personnel DNH(training)
Equipements informatiques(computers)
Equipements logistiques(vehicles)                                                      _       _      _       _
Acquisition de matcriel(office supply)                                         -       -       -
Gestion des Dechets (Waste water)
Diagnostic du reseau enterre/curage(cleaning out)
APD rehabilitation du reseau(study)
APD rehabilitation Bassin OBK (study)                           _       _
Selection du gestionnaire(consult.service)
Rchabilitation reseau et lagunage OBK                                          -       -       -      -       -       -
Bassins de lagunage(ponds construction)                                                - _            -       -       -      -
Formation de vidangeurs/Artisans(on-job-training)                              _       _       _
Supervision assainissement                                                     -       _                             -






-i f 0SS  Xr gE g "  8w               2  Si i.M8   2n  
ig~~~~~~~ X.   11 r..X
| gN       Ii  I' l   II 0'0 
i   I   :  t1  I.i T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1-<l                  l     X      tt1} 






Annex 2-5
1 page of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project supervision Plan
1.    IDA supervision Inputs. Field supervision needs are 35 staff-weeks described in the
following tables. In addition, regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports,
procurement actions and required staff-weeks per year are estimated. IDA supervision will be
assisted by the Resident Mission which will provide each year about three staff-weeks.
2.     Borrower's contribution to Supervision.. Project's progress and performance will be
evaluated internally by DNH, DATU and SONEG and externally through annual operational
audits. Keys actions would be as follows:
(a)    Progress reports would be submitted quarterly to IDA. These reports would
include a summary of implementation under each component, financial statements on
project expenditures, progress against agreed schedule activities and key performance
indicators and procurement information and cost estimates, updated as needed.
(b)    Mid-Term Review. Two a year after the efectveness of the credit, DNH, DATU
and SONEG would organize a joint IDA/ Government review of project implementation
covering:
(i) progress reports, annual work program, budgets and counterpart
funding; (ii) status of monitoring indicators listed in Annex 2-4; (iii)
effectiveness of project management with respect to key indicators and
(iv) the sector investment program. Other donors represented in Conakry
would be invited to facilitate the dissemination of lessons learned and
experience accumulated during implementation. DNH, DATU and
SONEG would prepare and transmit IDA an evaluation report one month
in advance of the annual review.
3 .    SONEG would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervisions.



Annex 2-5
Pagc 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
AppdiateActity                                 Expectud skill requirementu
date       ________    __     I________                    _                   ..
06/97       Project launch wurkshop           Task manager                      1.5
a) implementation procedures     Economist                          I
b) workshops on bidding and       Procurement specialist            1
disbursements procedures         Disbursement specialist            1
c) checking of the effectiveness  Resident Mission                  1
conditions                    /
06/97       Supervision mission               Task manager                      1.5
a) implementation of the project  Sanitary Engineer                 I
b) analysis of the main issues    Resident Mission                  1
10/97       Supervision mission               Task manager                      2
a) implementation of the project  Sanitary engineer
b) analysis of the main issues
Resident Mission                  I
02/98       Supervision mission               Task manager                       2
a) implementation of the project  Sanitary engineer                 1
b) analysis of the main issues
Resident Mission 
06/98       Supervision mission               Task manager                       2
a) implementation of the project  Resident Mission                  1
b) analysis of the main issues
10/98       Supervision mission               Task manager                       2
a) implementation of the project  Sanitary engineer                 I
b) analysis of the main issues    Resident Mission                  1
02/99       Supervision Mission               Task manager                       2
a) implementation of the project  Sanitary engineer                 I
b) analysis of the main issues    Resident Mission                  I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
07/99       Mid-term review                   Task manager                       2
a) action plan                    Sanitary engineer
b) implementation of the project and   Financial analyst            I
institutional set up              Environment specialist            1
c) accounting and disbursements   R        M                        1
d) impact of the project (socio-  Resident Mission
economic and environmental)



Annex 2-S
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
[   ppzuuimale.1
|   Appate   |         ~~~~Activity|  Expected sldl                 _ki
Supervision mission               Task manager                        2
a) implementation of the project  Resident Mission                    1
b) analysis of the main issues
11/99
02/00        Supervision mission               Task manager                        2
a) implementation of the project  Sanitary engineer                   1
b) arnalysis of the main issues   Resident Mission                    1
06/00        Supervision mission               Task manager                        2
a) implementation of the project  Resident Mission
b) analysis of the main issues
10/00       Supervision mission                Task manager                        2
a) implementation of the project  Resident Nission                    I
b) analysis of the main issues
02/01        Supervision mission               Task manager                        2
a) implementation of the project  Resident Mission                    1
b) analysis of the main issues
02/01        Supervisionr mission              Task manager                        2
a) implementation of the project  Sanitary engineer                   I
b) analysis of the main issues    Resident Mission                    1
06/01        Final supervision mission         Task manager                        2
a) discussions with the Govt      Sanitary engineer                   I
b) preparation for the completion  Environment specialist             1
report                            Financial specialist                I
Resident Mission                   1






O R G A N I G R A M M E
SOCIWE NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINEE
SONEG
CONSEIL D'ADMINISTRATION
(11 MEMBRES)
,            | ~~~~DIRECI1ON GENERALE|- 
DIRECTION DES ETUDES ET                 DIECTION ADMNISTRTIVE
TRAVAUX NEUFS              _              ET FINANCIERE
i
1' Z
TRAVAUX  iCOMPTAILITE   SERVICES          SERVICES    AUDIT
l   l I  NEUFS  | |   | | ADMINISTRATIFS   GENERAUX   INTERNE






ANNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 1
ORGANIGRAINIME DE LA DIRECTION NATIONALE DE
LUHYDRAULIQUE
Directeur
National
Directeur National
Adjoint
I~~~~Dvso Etudes
[ Division  ] Dv n  Etudes  Div. L6gislation
Hydrologie  &Planification  &R6glementat.Q
nJ~~~~~~~~~~ eJ -=,W
;  I;'liUl                  1U   U'D 
C9~~~~






ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 1
ORGANIGRAMME DE LA DIRECTION NATIONALE DE L'AMENAGEMENT
TERRITOIRE ET DE L'URBANISME
DIRECTION NATIONALE
DE L'AN1ENAGEMENT DU TERRITOIRE
ET DE L'URBANISME.
Division Etudes Gbnbrales     Division Operations Urbaines    Division Voirie Urbaine
et Planification Urbaines     et Espaces Verts              Assainissement et Reseaux
Section G n                                              Section
Etudes GOpr. Urbaines                           .o|r
Section                    Section Contr6le             Section
Planif. Urb,               des Op6r. Urb.               Assainisement
Section collecte et         Section                     Section
gest. de donn6es       -      _ Espaces Verts           Rbseaux Divers






Ampex 3-I
page I of I
GUINEA: URBAN WATER RATE
EVOLUTION EltSTRUCTURE, DU TARIF MOVEN PAR METRE CUBE
I Conakry, GuIn6e
(en GNF)
FLEMVENTS              -"       -9       -"        1992     299      1994    i1'5        1996      1997       1998       1999      2000      201        2002    '2003        2004
CONSTITUTIPS             28         90      19 
Tarif Coosommateur                           ___
_________  - -                                                        s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 4j  380  380"::  400    .405:       405       410    410
I. Tw,jF1bNpoilani             86      1051    114       1651   223        353 1 425
1.2. Rcdc%vancc                              _ _ _     _ _ __ _ _
Fonic2iomrncnient       It        I       IS       3        32       38        36
SONEG                        ___    __                            ___    _
*luvcstissemnwl        53        35       84      160      278      211      211
*Serv'iccd1 In-                           27       63       163      278      208
DCOC  -   -        -        -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:':~:~37G                530        560        560m-   520          515-    515          4940
Sous  Trotal    64       46       126     253       473      527      4355             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I atal Tiarif Consommtaleur     IS0      151       20      418       696      88ao     880       80        90         9490                 90        90         9290                 90
JIoyca
1.  Soulien  au  Tarif                                            _ _ _   _ _ _                                          -   ---  
- Soulien au TEE       109      141      170      293      226       197      112
- Soutien Scrvice      139       92      2011      94       222       88     -
Dclic                                                                                                                                                        - 
Toain Smiksc an TAn(       ITS      232 7 278         217      338       285      112 ___






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THEIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GU1NEE
INCOME STATEMENTS
(GNF 000)
1989         1990          1991           1992         1993          1994
5 mondus
Operatng Revonues
Water Sales Fees                             275,741       624,284     1,681,412     3,023,521     4,706,696     8,144,760
Operating Subsidies                              -             -          10,767          655            -
Miscellaneous                                    -             -            600          5,472           -
Total Opraing Revenues                       275,741       624,284     1,692,779     3,029,648     4,706,696     8,144,760
Operating Expens
Salaries & Wages                              21,850        77,460       153,166       208,506       216,164      231,268
Operating Expenditures                        20,020        70,587       93,863        149,016       229,810      294,964
Taxation                                       1,370         8,606        7,911         10,237        15,281       12,357
Provision for Bad Debts                       12,425       110,355      244,835        466,966       520,780      963,425
Provision for Depreciation                   338,240       828,589      900,255        737,974     1,269,796     1,873,081
Miscellaneous                                  1,650         4,302        8,450         11,585        11,080       12,020
Total Operating Expenses                     395,555     1,099,899     1,408,480     1,584,284     2,262,911     3,387,115
Operating Income                            (119,814)     (475,615)     284,299      1,445,364     2,443,785     4,757,645
Interests Payments on Credits                (18,308)      (76,400)     (159,650)     (318,839)     (224,086)   (1,434,543)
Othernon-operating Income                       (296)       33,027      (321,334)      (27,173)       (5,065)         396
Net Income for the Year                     (138,418)     (518,988)     (196,685)    1,099,352     2,214,634     3,323,498            X X
Retained Profit Brought Forward                  (138,418)     (138,418)     (657,406)     (854,091)      245,261     2,459,895            ° ti"
RetainedProfitCarriedForward                     (138,418)        (657,406)     (854,091)     245,261      2,459,895  5,783,393
Operating Ratio (Oper. Exp./Revenues)                143%         176%           83%           52%           48%           42%
ReturnonNetFixedAssetsinOper.                         -1%          -3%            1%            4%            4%            5%
Page 1 of 1



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINEE
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(GNF '000)
1989         1990          1991          1992          1993          1994
5 months
Sources of Funds
Net Income                                  (138,418)    (518,988)     (196,685)     1,099,352    2,214,634     3,323,498
Depreciation Expenses                       338,240       828,589       900,255       737,974     1,269,796     1,873,081
Provision for Bad Debts                      12,425       110,355       244,835       466,966       520,780      963,425
Non-Cash Working Capital (Var.)                          (264,499)   (1,526,900)    (9,864,183)    6,014,588    4,547,275
Internal Generation of Funds                212,247       684,455     2,475,305     12,168,475    (2,009,378)    1,612,729
Principal Repayment
Net Internal Cash Generation                212,247       684,455     2,475,305     12,168,475    (2,009,378)    1,612,729
Funds & Grants                             2,384,014     8,305,545    15,369,540    5,213,196    11,441,085     2,542,766
On-lent Credits                           13,839,537      286,202     5,146,486    26,863,671    25,704,577    16,987,321
Total Sources of Funds                    16,435,798     9,276,202    22,991,331   44,245,342    35,136,284    21,142,816
Applications of Funds
Management Contract                        1,451,815     3,173,121    2,610,659     4,045,702     1,378,517     3,864,682
Fixed Assets Additions                    13,770,505     4,300,630    17,154,634    10,157,263    50,204,476    4,104,521      1 |
Revaluation Reserve                        1,125,328     2,480,133    5,274,429       315,068           -            -         OQ
Work in Progress                             10,488       798,521       910,915    26,684,932   (21,504,720)    8,903,601
0I1
Variation in Cash Balance                  2,328,318    3,484,063     7,589,552     3,672,513     5,058,011     4,270,012       "
Internal Cash contribution to invest.               1.39%        5.08%         4.590/o       5.64%        13.32%       36.51%
Page 1 of 1



REPUBLC OF GUNEA
THRD WATER "MPPLY AND SANfrATIO PROJECr
3OCETE NATIONALE DES EAUX De UUI4EE
BALANC  SEET STATEMENTS
(GWNFW)
1989         1990          1991           1992          1993         1994
AJb
Invmny                                           .             .          63,277        48,984       623,353       283,528
Accounts Receivb                             282,793       262,183       919,364      2,548,027     4,623,361    5,934,707
Cah md Bnk                                   139,579       546,554     1,115,973      2,138,524     3,264,522    5,3S1,340
Cinvit Ases                                  422,372       808,737     2,098,614      4,735,535     8,511,236    11,599,575
Gfr.F xed Assets                           13,770,505    18,071,135   35,225,769     45,383,032    95,587,508    99,692,029
Deprecition-                                 338,239      1,718,016    4,685,194      5,664,828     7,589,229    10,983,909
Net Fixed Aetb                             13,432.266    16,353,119    30,540,575    39,718,204    87,998,279   8S,708,120
Wok in Progr                                  10,4S8       809,009     1,719,924     28,404,856     6,900,136    15,S03,737
Supprt to Management                        1,451,815    4,624,936     1.235,595     11,281,297    12,659,814    16,524.496
Exchange Rate Trandation Var.                940,458      1,618,323    4,374,957      6,528,270     8,009,452    10,189,501
Sbndby Account                                   -         431,093     1,171,081      2,138,022     3,712,012    4,243,331
Total Ase                                 16,257,399    24,645,217    47,140,746     92,806,184    127,790,929   147,068,760
UshUiltas & Owinrs' Equity
Accoumb Pab                                   16,961       384,918     1,895,599     12,611,321     8,189,945    4,751,327
ShortTamMaturityofL-TDebt                     72,400        13,400       135,538       511,248      1,263,542      414,169
Creditor SEEG                                 76,975           -         295,706       303,903       598,863     1,540,884
Miscelans                                      5,930        17,837       336,670       715,594       724,831       495,047
ShortTTonLiabiis                            172,266       416,155     2,663,513     14,142,066    10,777,181    7,201,427
Long Term Debt                             12,899,079    12,507,416   14,897,268     39,607,626    63,831,021    78,638,293
Exchange Trnslation on Loans                 940,458     1,618,323     4,374,957      6,528,270     8,009,452    10,189,501
Tota Liablt                                14,011,803    14,541,894   21,935,738     60,277,962    82,617,654    96,029,221
Equity Sae Capibt                           1,227,992    6,944,681    18,010,854     22,699,897    42,096,284    44,166,682
Provisions & Reserves                       1,156,022    3,744,878     8,048,245      8,572,398      617,096     1,089,464                                        OQ Z
Inveahatt Subvntion                              -          71,170                    1,010,666          .-                                                           tri
Retaied Eniigp                              (138,418)     (657,406)     (854,091)      245,261     2,459,895     5,783,393                                          W
0 I
Totdal Own   Equity                        2,245,596     10,103,323   25,205,008     32,528,222    45,173,275    51,039,539                                       et, N
Toal Liabilities   Owners' Equiy           16,257,399    24,645,217    47,140,746    92,806,184    127,790,929   147,068,760
Net W-iag Capal (GNF  VW)                         250,106       392,582      (564.899)    (9,406,531)   (2X265,945)    4,398,148
C.rmnt Rato (tin)                                     2.5           1.9           0.8           0.3           0.8           1.6
Cmh Rdio (%)                                          81%          131%          42%            15%           30%          75%
IMB Term  Ddb % Told Captalit                         86%           58%          43%            59%           61%          64%
Totl Lblim  % Totl C azabnm                           87%           60%          49%            77%           71%          69%






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SOCIETE DEXPLOITATION DES EAUX DE GUINEE
INCOME STATEMENTS
(GNF '000)
1989          1990          1991           1992          1993          1994
5 months
Operating Revenues
Water Sales Fees                       561,916      1,443,424     1,286,077      1,921,228     3,034,880     4,793,820
Foreign Management Fees                437,380     2,004,591      1,934,152     2,434,948     2,414,859      2,425,544
Revenues from Connections                6,615        56,088       161,014        120,202       266,957      1,779,993
Financial Revenues                         -         177,821       156,136         87,037        36,567        53,774
Miscellaneous                            1,799       250,279       903,034      1,846,613      1,854,821    2,297,215
Total Operating Revenues             1,007,710     3,932,203      4,440,413     6,410,028      7,608,084    11,350,346
Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages                       320,812       898,194      1,306,085     1,732,809      1,994,062    2,498,449
Operating Expenditures                 485,931      1,224,930     1,688,892     2,725,793     2,923,776      5,107,661
Taxation                                 9,485        31,402        39,207         52,880        55,923       102,040
Provision for Bad Debts                275,888      1,198,006      956,383      1,597,040      1,833,487    2,168,494
Provision for Depreciation              67,746       260,878       321,217        348,065       349,503       447,332
Financial Exp. & Miscellaneous           9,680       116,232        94,247        112,723       121,321        80,734
Total Operatmg Expenses              1,169,542     3,729,642      4,406,031     6,569,310     7,278,072     10,404,710
Operating Income                      (161,832)      202,561        34,382       (159,282)      330,012       945,636
Non Operating Income                       -           8,033           264          1,779         6,000        35,404
Non Operating Expenses                   (183)       (10,277)       (4,831)       (78,169)     (148,602)     (403,317)                    I'd
NetlncomefortheYear                   (162,015)      200,317        29,815       (235,672)      187,410       577,723                        t X
RetainedProfitBroughtForward               (162,015)     (162,015)       38,302         68,117      (167,555)       19,855                      0 o
Retained Profit Carried Forward            (162,015)       38,302        68,117       (167,555)       19,855       597,578                       " W
Operating Ratio (Oper. Exp./Revenues)         116%           95%            99%           102%           96%           92%
Net Income % Revenues                         -16%            5%             1%           -4%             2%            5%
Return on Net Fixed Assets in Oper.            20%            18%           82%           94%           108%           77%



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SOCIETE D'EXPLOITATION DES EAUX DE GUINEE
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(GNF '000)
1989          1990          1991           1992          1993          1994
5 months
Sources of Fumdb
Net Income                            (162,015)      200,317        29,815       (235,672)       187,410      577,723
Depreciation Expenses                   67,746       260,878       321,217        348,065       349,503       447,332
Provision for Bad Debts                275,888      1,198,006      956,383       1,597,040     1,833,487     2,168,494
Non-Cash Worling Capital                            1,443,596      298,245        289,914       601,603       122,389
Provision Write-off                                                              (322,513)     (556,828)    (1,768,775)
Internal Generation of Funds           181,619       215,605      1,009,170      1,097,006     1,211,969     1,302,385
Assets Sales                               -             -             -              406           -          21,048
Net Intenal Cash Generation            181,619       215,605      1,009,170      1,097,412     1,211,969     1,323,433
Equity and Grant Increase             1,300,000
Increase in L-T Debt                       -             -             -           40,961        18,434       419,780
Total Sources of Funds                1,481,619      215,605      1,009,170      1,138,373     1,230,403     1,743,213
Applications of Foods
Investments in Fixed Assets            957,280       584,657       331,205        292,504       313,989      1,026,959
Investments inOtherAssets               98,159        67,805            55          1,562           -           3,696 %o
Investments in Financial Assets           427            427         13,955        15,918        17,787        21,129       
Total applications of Funds           1,055,866      652,889       345,215        309,984       331,776      1,051,784
Net Capital Resources                  425,753      (607,296)         1,783        45,040         8,247       (501,043)
Cash at end of Year                   1,090,906      483,610       485,393        530,433       538,680        37,637



REPUBUC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SOCIETE DIXPLOITATION DES EAUX DE GUINEE
BALANCE SHEET STATEMENTS
(GNF 000)
19S9          1990         1991           1992          1993          1994
5 montdi
Aso
hInvtmy                               90,540        346,215      346,382        424,451       420,012       875,731
S-T Inestments                          -         604,562       335,257         50,272           -            -
Accounts Receibe                     415,972       721,922      2,273,181     3,893,534     6,871,217     9,037,767
Cah and Bank                        1,090,906      483,610       485,393        530,433       538,6S0       37,637
Cunenl Atsb                         1,597,411     2,156,309     3,440,220     4,8,690       7,129,909     9,951,135
GrossFPxedAas                        957,210      1,541,937     1,373,142     2,152,987     2,449,477     3,410,349
Depqcciation                          64,746       321,616       649,692        990,620     1,322,624     1,726,404
Net Fxed Aats                        192,534      1,213,251     1,223,450      1,162,367    1,126,153     1,613,945
WetinProgre                           91,159        67,105            55            -             -           9,923
FiAncial Aset                            427           427         13,955        15,911        17,717        21,129
Standby Accounb                          -           16,916        2,652         43,499         1,992        33,970
Total Asse                          2,511,531     3,454,701     4,680,332     6,120,474     3,976,541    11,700,102
L1bid  & Owner' Eqity
AccouAs Payb"                       1,193,510       192,546     1,116,971     1,097,643     1,475,472     2,441,244
Va        Critor (MdL Soneg           64,754        226,076      985,527      2,121,371     4,071,911     5,239,799
Short Term Debt                      137,767           -             -              -             -         366,227
Short Term Labdities                1,396,031     1,111,622     2,102,505     3,226,021     5,547,390     1,047,270
Long Term Debt                         4,522         12,452        27,125        39,615        51,049       111,602
Standby Accounts                         -            1,796        10,972        31,594        19,664          -
Equity Shart Catl                   1,300,000     1,300,000     1,300,000     1,300,000     1,300,000     1,300,000
Provisnm & Rers                       50,000        913,536     1,170,913     1,683,799     2,031,513     1,643,652
Retined Ean,ig                      (162,015)       31,302        61,117      (167,555)       19,155       597,571
Toa Liabfti & Ownes' Equity         2,58,531      3,454,701     4,680,332     6,120,474     1,976,541    11,700,102
m X
Net Workng Cit (GNF 00)                    201,3S7     1,037,687     1,337,715      1,672,669     2,2S2,519     1,903,S65                                        0  G
Cumrnt Ratio (times)                           1.1           1.9           1.6           1.5           1.4           1.2                                           L.)
Cash Ratio (%)                                71%           43%           23%            16%           10%         0.47%
Long Tam Debt % Tobl C      _phta o          0.31%         0.53%         1.0S%         1.37%         1.69%         3.06%
Total ities %Total Capitalizaticn            117%           4S%          83%           113%          163%          223%






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
URBAN WATER SUPPLY SECTOR ACCOUNTS
DNCOME STATEMIENTS
(ONF oo)
1989          1990           1991           1992           1993          1994
Opad Rsm
Wa  Sa lsFees                           837,657      2,067,708      2,967,489      4,944,749     7,741,576     12,938,580
Foreign MauapgtwFees                    437,380      2,004,591      1,934,152      2,434,948     2,414,8S9      2,425,544
Revams from Contetios                     6,615         56,088       161,014        120,202        266,957      1,779,993
Fincial Revemme                             -          177,821       156,136         87,037         36,567        53,774
Micelaneim                                1,799       250,279        903,634       1,852,085     1,854,821      2,297,215
Tol Opeating RFanes                    1,283,451     4,556,487      6,122,425      9,439,021    12,314,780     19,495,106
Opwadag xzpane
Saires & Wages                          342,662       975,654       1.459,251      1,941,315     2,210,226      2,729,717
Opratig Expendture                      505,951      1,295,517      1,782,755      2,874,809     3,153,586      5,402,625
Taxtion                                  10,855        40,008         47,118         63,117         71,04         114,397
Provisionfor Bad Det                    288,313      1,308,361      1,201,218      2,064,006     2,354,267      3,131,919
Provision for Deprcation                405,986      1,089,467      1,221,472      1,086,039     1,619,299      2,320,413
Finania Exp. & Misoaela xo               11,330        120,534       102,697        124,308        132,401        92,754
Tota Opeting Expaue                    1,S65,097     4,829,541      5,814,511      8,153,594     9,540,983     13,791,825
Opwating Income                        (281,646)     (273,054)       307,914       1,285,427     2,773,797      5,703,281
Non Opeaing  ome                           (296)       41,060       (321,070)       (25,394)           935        35,800
Non Oper. Exp. & Debt Sevice            (18,491)      (86,677)      (164,481)      (397,008)      (372,688)    (1,837,860)
Net Icome for the Year                 (300,433)     (318,671)      (177,637)       863,025      2,402,044      3,901,221
Rctained Profit Brought Forward             (300,433)      (300,433)     (619,104)       (796,741)       66,284      2,468,328
Rebted Profit Carried Forward               (300,433)     (619,104)      (796,741)        66,284      2,468,328      6,369,549                   '
Operating Ratio (oper. expfrevenues)            122%          106%            95%            86%            77%           71%                I-w
Net Income % Revenmes                           -23%            -7%           -3%             9%/           20%/          20'f%° 0
Reum on Net Faod Ase im Oper.                    -2%            -2%            1%             4%             4%            6%



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
URBAN WATER SUPPLY SECTOR ACCOUNTS
CASH FLOW STATEMIENTS
(GNF '000)
1989         1990          1991           1992          1993         1994
Source of FAmma
Net Income                           (300,433)     (318,671)     (177,637)      863,025     2,402,044     3,901,221
Depreciation Expenses                405,986      1,089,467     1,221,472     1,086,039     1,619,299     2,320,413
Provision for Bad Debts              288,313      1,308,361     1,201,218     2,064,006     2,354,267     3,131,919
Provision Write-off                                                            (322,513)     (556,828)   (1,768,775)
Non-Cash Working Capital                 -        1,179,097    (1,228,655)    (9,574,269)    6,616,191    4,669,664
Intenal Gcnemiom of Funds           393,866       900,060      3,473,708    13,264,826      (797,409)    2,915,114
Assb Sales                               -             -             -             406            -         21,048
Net Internal Cash Generation          393,866      900,060      3,473,708    13,265,232      (797,409)    2,936,162
Funds & Grnts                       3,684,014     8,807,806    16,109,528     7,190,803    13,015,075     3,074,085
Increas in L-T Debt (Sccg)               -             -             -           40,961        18,434      419,780
On-Lent Credits (Soneg)            13,839,537      286,202      5,146,486    26,863,671    25,704,577    16,987,321
Total Sources of Funds             17,917,417     9,994,068    24,729,722    47,360,667    37,940,677    23,417,348
AppMca&m of oF
Inavestents in Fixed Assets        14,727,785     4,885,287    17,485,838    10,449,768    50,518,467     5,131,473
Work In Progress                      108,647      866,326       910,970     26,686,494   (21,504,720)    8,907,297
M agement Contract                  1,451,315     3,173,121     2,610,659     4,045,702     1,378,517     3,864,682
Exchange Translation Va.             940,458       677,865      2,756,634     2,153,313     1,481,182     2,180,049
Invesments in Financil Assets            427           427        13,955         15,918        17,787       21,129
Revaluation Resere                    122,953      281,774       (817,496)    1,043,214           -            -
VariaioninCash Balancc               811,238       502,804       (517,235)    4,269,992     5,159,064      354,784
Changes in Net Working Capital      1,230,485     1,030,162     1,601,367     2,668,957     3,803,200     5,418,977                    w
0.
Internl Csh contributio to invesL              3%           16%          -19%           36%           -3%           21%



REPBLIC OF OWiBA
TIIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SAMAThN PROIMCI
URBAN WATER SIRPLY SBCTOk ACCOUNTS
BALANC SHET STATl1wNT
(CGNF OQO)
19S9          1990          1991          1992          1993       - 1994
Amb
ywatoy                                 90,540       346,215       409,659        473,435     1,043,365     1,159,259
S-T  hbImmi.m                                       604,562       335,257         50,272          -             -
Accoumb Receivable                    69S.765       964,105     3,192,552      6,441,561    11,494,578    14.972,474
Cihand Blk                          1,092,718     1,047,078     1.604.019      2,712,456     3.805,192     5,0116,720
CtutAmab                            1,SS2.023     2,961,960     5,541,487      9.677,724    16,343,135    21,213.453
rOfFbledAsuI                       14,727,785    19,613,072    37,096,910     47,536,019    96,036,967   103,102,378
Dqrs,31ioni                           402,965     2,046,702     5,334,386      6,655,448     8,911,853    12,710,313
No Fjxed Aab                       14,324,S00    17,566,370    31,764,024     40,S0,571    S9,125,134    90,392,065
Wok Pim   nss                         108,647       S76,S14     1,719,979     28,404,856     6,9M0,136    15,313,660
9Paitto _4umut                      1.451.815     4,624.936     7,235,595     11,28I,297    12,659S814    16.524,496
ExchImn  Rat Trulgtoa Var.            940,458     1,618,323     4,374,957      6,528,270     8,009,452    10,189,501
FinlASis                                 427           427         13,955         15,913        17,737       21,129
SU9dby A    _omt                          -         431,093     1,171,081      2,138,022     3,712,012     4,243,331
Totl Am_b                          18,708,170    2S.099,923    51.821,078     9S.926,65S   136,767,470   158.4K,635
LhbIi    a O0ar.s RquMy
AcomPabyIbk                         1,210,471     1,277,464     3,012577      13,708,964     9,665,417     7,192,571
S-TMniutyofL-TDebt                     72,400        13,400       135.538       511,248      1,263,542      414,169
Vai-wo  Qdkw (iYl. Saa)               141,729       226.076     1,2S1.233      2,432,231     4,670,781     6,780,683
ShotTamDebt                             5,930        17,837       336,670       715,594       724,S31       495,047
ShmtTom  lbih_                     1.430,530     1,534,777     4,766,018     17.368,087    16,324,571    14,882470
Lc% Tom Debt                       12,903,601    12,519,36S    14,925,093     39,647.241    63,139,070    73,749,895
ExdhaU TruBgbion an LoA               940,455     1,618,323     4,374,957      6,528,270     8,009,452    10.189,501
Total Liabltes                     15,274,519    15,672,963    24,066,06S     63,543,598    38,223,093   103,821,866
S9t.aiyAeoi.ia                            -           1,796        10,972        38594         19,664
Equity Sh- Capil                    2,527,992     8,244,6S1    19,310,854     23.999,397    43,396f284    45.466.632
Prvision &R _m.                     1,206,022     4,799,582     9,219,158     11,264S63      2,648,679    2,733,116
RPgin.d EKniO                        (300.433)     (619,104)     (785,974)       77,706      2,479,750    6,38971
Total L.buIsu& Ownod' Equiy        18,708,170    28,099,923    51,821,078     9S,926,658   136,767,470   158,402,635
Not W algCqiPI(NFIOVW)                     451.493     1,447,183       775,469     (7,690,363)      13,564      6,335.963
QzRutio (ti)                                   1.3           1.9           1.2           0.6            1.0          1.4                                      W
C  RAio(%)                                    76%           68%           34%            16%           23%        34.18%              
LmgTrm Dk%TotalCqaiibm                      74.60%        47.13%        31.721%       43.61%        53.05%        54.87%                                      H   b
TOW Lbi 1im % TOWal Cqaitalizaio              83%           53%            42%           70%           67%           65%






REPUBUIC OPOE
MRD WA7R SUPPLrAD  4N1TAI7ONPROJECT
soCzET NATIoNALE D8S eUrDEGU NE
PRaETD TOMJE TSrA T
1995          1996           1997           1995           1999          2000           2001          2002           2003           2004
wow 5da RaoR              420            370            530            560           560            520           515            515            490            490
WOW Sda Law             14,335         15,410         20,043         25.492        27.832         31.200         32,500        34,000         34.500         35.00
Watr Saks Pon                          6,026,246      5,701,700     10.622,790     14,275,520    15,555,920     16,224,O       16.737,50     17,510,000     16,905.00      17,150,Z0
op0rqSu &i- -                                                                                                                                       - .
rTblOlperamRe_Ro                       6,026,246      5.701,70      10.622,790     14,275,520    15,555,920     16,224,00      16,737,50     17,510,00      16,905,00      17.150,00
Sdw*a& WV"                               272,660        279,497       264548          293,647       300,985       3J512          316,225        324,13)       332.234         340,540
Opwath wEqu,m                            444743         457,912       469,359         411,093       493,121        505,449       515.0,5        531,037       54,313          557,921
r_m,                                     25,532          28,415        31,257         34,352         37,521         41,603        45,763         50,339        55.373          60,911
P1m,oBforAdDubl/Cha_                     930,699        741,000       549,523         572,000       574,000        979,000      1,214,000     1,422.00       1,647,000      1,39,000
Piu-*-fbr.D#p-6W                       4,330,271      5,445,327      6,256,327      7,025,327      7,353,327     7,547,327      7,547,327      7.547,327     5.104327       S,106,327
AifiwdA,                                  14,300            -                             -             -              -             -              -             -               -
Tad Op pate Expms                      6,020,525      6,952,151      7.593.251      5,706,449     9,059,256      9,301,091     9,641,4W       9,874,534      7,655,247      7,904,698
Operatirqlrcau                             5,721     (1.250.451)     2,729.539      5,569,071     6,526,664      6,542,109      7,096,100     7,635,166      9,219,753      9,245,302
Inc   (kTsa) am,flnij fra.            (3.717,505)    (2,860.032)    (4,667,844)    (5,359,225)    (5,415,141)    (5,299,244)    (5,524.896)    (5,545.884)    (5,097,189)   (4,525,905)
Odurz,.qwnml or  1                     9.593,336                                         -              -             -              -              -             -              -
- R=w Rrk' Fen*
d'IuvmhvmaE.wt/feMlC.uvw.*                  9,333.528
NAW lm,. or h Tera                     5,581.552     (4,110.452)    (1.938.304)      209,846      1,111,523      1,542,065      1,571,204     2,089.282      4,122.564      4,719,397
RetatradPmq*rBWkFoward                       5,670,191     11,551,743     7,441,261      5,502,956      5,712,802     6,524.325      8,367,191      9,938,394    12,027,677      16,150.241
REdJd PVq CD aFGVwEw                        11,551,743      7,441.261     5,502.956      5,712,802      6,524.325     8.367,191      9,935.394     12,027,677    16,150,241      20,569,637
Op0       1  %irl     e  Ravwe                    0m           -22%            26%            39%           42%            42%            42%           44%            55K            54%
Net Inla. % Rmraes                               98%           -72%           -15%             14             7%           10%            99%           12%            24%            28%9
Avwne Cadlec     PelodP (daw)                     210            262            138            129           121            131           130            131            133            138a    c
Ret., an NAt FiaudAwm  in Opr..                  1.6%           1.7%          3.7%           5.0%           5.2%           5.4%          5.5%           5.5%          4.9%            5.1%     *
0 1
1-h



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TI7RD WATER SUPPLYAND SANMTATIONPROJECT
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUXDE GUINEE
PROCTED CAHFLOWS$AUSWEVAN
(USS '000)
Prqected
1995          1996          1997           1998          1999          2000          2001          2002          2003           2004
S.ma efFuxh
Net Inca.                            (3,451,976)    (4,110,482)    (1,938,304)     209,846     1,111,523     1,S42,865     1,571,204     2,089,282     4,122,564      4,719,397
Deprecia nExpens-e                    4,330,271     5,445,327      6,256,327     7,025,327     7,353,327     7,547,327     7,547,327     7,547,327     5,106,327      5,106,327
Provisionfor Bad Debts                 930,699        741,000       849,823        872,000      874,000        979,000     1,214,000     1,422,000     1,647,000      1,839,000
Internal Genration q'Fwrdr            1,8AM,994     2,075,845      5,167,846     8,107,173     9,338,850    10,069,192    10,332,531    1J,058,609    J0a875,891     11,664,724
PrincipalRepayment                    1,857,375     3,155,563      5,727,313     7,653,035     7,757,097     7,864,097     7,972,847     8,550,347     8,663,597      8,778,597
Net Intrnal Cash Generation            (48,381)    (1,079,718)     (559,467)       454,138     1,581,753     2,205,095     Z359,683      2,508,262     Z212,294       2,886,127
Other Fnds & Grants                   3,606,370     8,277,692      9,080,182     8,268,644     Z578,417      1,985,638     4,804,763     7,743,788     4,016,401       (446,854)
Disbursments on Borrowings          8,414,864     19,314,616    21,187,092     19,293,503    6,016,307      4,633,155    11.211,114    18,068,838     9,371,603     (1,042,660)
Total Sources frFunds                11,972,853    26,51Z590     29,707,808     28,016,285    10,176,477     8,823.888    18,375,560    28,320,888    15,600,298      1,396,613
Appl-d- efF-%z
FixcdAssets Additions                10,463,533    18,050,942    22,190,000     27,030,000    23,845,200    12,724,800     6,480,000    17,030,000    26,210,000     14,210,000
Work in Progrs                         386,961      5,999,302     4,840,000     (1,390,000)   (14,710,000)    (4,450,000)    10,550,000  9,180,000    (12.000.000)    (12.890,000)
Foreign Echange Variation             (633,064)     2,550,117     2,761,191      2,455,498     1,116,530       620,578     1,413,476     2,175,408     1,451,591        134,842
oral applicabtons  fF8               10,217,430    26,600,361    29,791,191     28,095,498    10,251,730     8,895,378    18,443,476    28,385,408    15,661,591      1,454,842
Variation in Cash Balanec          1,755,423       (87,771)      (83,383)       (79,213)      (75,253)      (71,490)      (67,916)      (64,520)      (61,294)       (58,229)
Cash atEndofear                  1,755,423     1,667,652     1,584,269      1,505,056     1,429,803     1,358,313     1,290,397     1.225,877     1,164,583      1,1064354
blornalCa,h    rScw to ime                     t1,.O          -4%            -2%            2%           17%           27%           14%           10f          16%            20%
Debt Swwe Cowrage Rato                         0.99           0.82          0.95           1.03          1.12          1.17          1.17          1.18          1.16           1.22    (b
0 I
I'



REPUBLIC OFGUMJA
THIRD WATME SUPPLYAND SAN4TATIONPROJECT
SOCI=g%NA TOALEDESHAU XDR G(IvEE
PROJECTED BALNCE SHEET STA Trs1VWS
(USS '000)
Proyected
1995          1996          1997          1998         1999          2000         2001          2002          2003          2004
Assz
Inventory                             273,906       443,800       540,600       512,800       218,600       129,600      340,600       524,200       284,200        26,400
AccountuReceivable                   5,518,346     4,086,142     4.020.406     5,046,017     5,154,241    5,814,927     6,346,826     627Z958      6,139,296      6,484,752
Cash and Bank                        1,755,423     1,667,652     1,584.269     1,505,056     1,429,803    1.358,313     1,290.397     1,225,877    1,164,583      1,106,354
CurrentAssets                       Z7547,675      6.197,594     6,145.275     7,063,873    6.802.645     Z 302,840     7,977.824     8028,036    Z7584 080       7,617Z507
GrossFixedAssets                   126,680.058    144,731,000    166,921,000    193,951.000   217Z 794200   230,521,000   237,001,000    254,031,000   280,241,000    294,451,000
Depreciation                        16,141,738    21,207,323    2Z049,558     32,868,088    38,401,974   43,317.604    47,986,634    53,166,564    59,132,794    65,525,324
NetFixedAssets                     110,538,320    123,523,677    139,871,442    161,082.912   179,394,226    187,203,396   189,014,366    200.864,436   221,108,206    22A925,676
Work inProgress                     164190,698    22,190,000   27,030,000     25,640,000    10,93a00      6,480,000    17,030,000    24210,000    14,210.000      1,320,000
Exchange Rate Translaton Var,       10,174208     12,726,325    15,487,516    17Z943,014    19,059.544   19,680,123    21,093,599    23,269.007    24,720,598    24,855,440
FinancialAssets                     1860,698      1,860,698     1.860,698     1,860,698     1,860.698    1,860,698     1,860,698     1,860,698     1,860,698     1,860,698
TotalAssets                        1464313,599    166,49A295    190,394,931    213,590,497   218.04Z7113   222,52Z057   2364976,486    260,232.1 76   269,48Z582    264,579,320
Liai,des & Owsm' EquEty
AccountsPaabe                        5,504.265     3.328500      4.054.500     3,844000      1,639,500      972,000     2,554.500     3.931,500    2,131,500       198.000
Short TermMatnrityofL-TDebt          1,797.542     3,155,563     5,72Z7313    Z7653,035     7.757,097     z864.097      7,972,847     A55Q347      A663,597       477A597
MiscellanBos                                     -             -             -             -             -            -             -                    -             -
Short Term Liabihties                Z301.807      4484,063      9,781,813    11,499,035    9,39,597      4834097    10,527.347      12481,847    10795,097      A976597
Long Term Debt                      79,694,474    99,665,000    121,289,000    140,519,000   149,263,000    154,123,000   165,192500    182,229,000   187,597.000    179,653.000
Exchange Translaton on Loans        10,176,208    12,724325     15,48Z516     17943,014    19.0559.44   19.680.123    21,093,599    23,269.007    24,720.598    24.855.,440
Long Trnm Liabilities               89,870Q682    112,391,325    1346774516    15A462,014   168.322,544   173,803,123   184286,099    205,498,007   212,317Z598    204.50A440
Equity Shar Capital                 44660,355     46,660,355    46,660,355    44660,355    464660,355    46,660,355    44660,355     44660,355    46466a355      44660,355
Provsions &Rese,w                                       -             -             -             -            -             -                    -                    -
Investwnt Subvention                 Z364,721      9,957,000     8109,000     Z7692,000      3,279,000    1,29,000                                                     -
RetainedEarnings                    (4,883,966)    (8A994.448)   (10,932,753)   (10.722,907)    (9,611,384)    (4A068,518)    (46497,315)    (4,408032)  (285,468)  4,433,928
Total Liaoihhts &Owners'Equity    146,313,599    16449A295    190,394,931    213,590,497   21A047Z113    222,52Z7057   234976,486    260.232,176   269,487,582    264,579,320
Net Worting Capital (USS '000)             245,868      (284468)    (3,636,538)    (4,435,162)   (2593,953)    (1,533,257)    (2,549,524)    (4,453,811)    (3,207.017)    (1.359.091)  g  z
Cu,ventRato (tms)                              1.0           1.0          aC6            a6           0.7           a8            0.8           a6           a7             a8    
Cash % Short Term Liablites                   24%           26%           16%           13%           15%          15%           12%           10%          11%            12%        u>
Long Term Debt 9 Tota Capitalization          61%           68%           72%           74%           77%          78%           79%           79%           79%           77%        0
TotalLiabihties   otal Capitahioton           66%           71%           77%           80%          82%           82%           83%           84%          83%            81%






THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SOCIETE D'EXPLOITATIONr DES EAUX DE GUINEE
PROJECT  INCOME  STATEMENT
USS 1000
1995          1996          1997           199*          1999          2000          2001          2002          2003           2004
Operalig Reveues
Water Saes Fees                      7,481,440      7,859,100     8,217,630      9,686,960    10,576,160    12,480,000    13,162,500    13,770,000    14,145,000     14,350,000
Operating Subsidies                        -             -             -              -             -             -             -             -             -              -
Miscellaneous                         6,424,907     6,667,915      6,859,722     7,055,723     6,829,162     6,888,068     6,949,330     7,013,043     7,106,513      7,250,000
Total OperatingRevenues             13,906,347     14,527,015    15,077,352     16,742,683    17,405,322    19,368,068    20,111,830    20,783,043    21,251,513     21,600,000
Qpeaxg EVpeses
Salaries & Wages                     2,185,420      2,578,796     Z542,665       2,682,334     2,816,450     2,957,273     3,105,136     3,105,136     3,105,136      3,105,136
Operating Expenditures                7,980,693     8,180,210     8,490,107      9,427,860     9,663,557    10,146,735    10,400,403    10,400,403    10,400,403     10,400,403
Taxation                               122,477       102,041        105,907       106,634       111,432       116,447       121,687       127,163        132,885       138.865
ProvisionforBadDebts /Change          2,351,127     2,300,423     2,387,572      2,580,603     2,772,912     2,968,695     3,197,094     3,609,686     3,609,686      3,609.686
ProvisionforDepreciaion                527,264       485,565        503,960       592,991       711,590       853,908      1,024,689     1,229,627     1,475,552      1,770,663
Miscellaneous                           84,367         87,995        91,329         95,267       99,077        103,040       107,162       111,449       115,907        120,543
Total Operating Expenses            13,251,348     13,735,030    14,121,539     15,485,689    16,175,018    17,146,097    17,956,171    18,583,464    18,839,569     19,145,296
Operating Income                       654,999        791,985       955,813      1,256,994     1,230,304     2,221,970     2,155,658     2,199,578     2,411,943      2,454,703
Income (lss) onfinancial trans.        156,964                  -                     -             -             -             -             -             -              -
Other non-operating Income            (429,154)          -              -             -             -             -             -             -             -              -
Net Income for the Year                382,809        791,985       955,813      1,256,994     1,230,304     2,221,970     2,155,658     2,199,578     2,411,943      2,454,703
Operating ratio                      75.7           75.4          74.5           73.5         72.9           68.8         68.3           66.1          64.7           63.7
p-d
O z
0I 
I-tIN



77I'RD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SOCIETE D'PWLOITAYTON DES E4UX DE GUINEE
PRJECTED BALANCE SHEET STATJEINTS
US S 1000
1M95          1996          1997           199*          19"           2000          2101          2002          2003           2004
Iiwentoy                              1,277,382     1,341,251     1,408,314      1,478,729     1,552,666     1,630,299     1,711,814     1,797,405     1,887,275      1,981,639
AccountrReceivable                    8,771,834     8,333,242      7,916,580     8.708,238     9,579,062    10,536,968    11,590,665    12,749,732    14,024,705     15,427,175
Cash andBank                            33,074       135,010      1,050,771      1,181,885     1,215,149     2,206,996     3,057,895     3,866,893     5,006,010      6,136,450
CurrentAssets                       10,082,290      9,809,503    10,375,664     11,368,852    12,346,877    14,374,264    16,360,374    18,414,030    20,917,990     23,545,264
Gross FixedAssets                    4,011,106      4,331,994     4,678,554      5,052,838     5.457,065     5,893,631     6,365,121     6,874,331     8,249,197      9,899,036
Depreciation                         2,253,312      2,433,577     2,628,263      2,838,524     3,065,606     3,310,855     3,575,723     3,861,781     4,634,137      5,560,964
NetFixedAssets                       1,757,794      1,898,418     2,050,291      2,214,314     2,391,459     2,582,776     2,789.398     3,012,550     3,615,060      4,338,072
Work in Progress                       104,383       143,235        171,882       154,693       237,197       284,636       341,563       409,876       491,851        590,221
Exchange Rate Translation Var.          23,076           -             -              -                           -             -             -             -
Financial Assets                       154,034           -             -              -                    -             -             -             -              -
TotalAssets                         12,121,577     11,851,156    12,597,837     13,737,859    14,975,533    17,241,676    19,491,335    21,836,456    25,024,901     28,473,557
Li&iA & Owum' Equity
Accounts Payabl                        673,591        707,271       742,634        779,766      818,754        859,692      902,676        947,810       995,201      1,044,961
Short Term Matrity ofL-TDebt         8,769,357      8,330,889     7,914,345      7,518,627     7,142,696     6,785,561     6,446,283     6,123,969     5,817,771      5,526,882
Miscellaneous                          399,485           -              -             -                           -             -             -             -
Short Term Liabilities               9,842,433      9,038,160     8,656,979      8,298,393     7,961,450     7,645,253     7,348,960     7,071,779     6,812,971      6,571,843
Long Term Debt                         174,530       261,795        392,693       589,039       883,558      1,189.154     1,519,197     1,875,644     2,838,050      3,992,938
Exchange Translation on Loans                            -              -             -             -             -             -             -                     -
Long Term Liabilities                  174,530       261,795        392,693       589,039       883,558      1,189,154     1,519,197     1,875,644     2,838,050      3,992,938
Equity Share Capital                  1,300,000     1,300,000     1,300,000      1,300,000     1,300,000     1,300,000     1,300,000     1.300,000     1,300.000      1,300,000   1 
Provisions &Rese,ves                   374,110       411,521        452,673       497,940       547,734       602,508       662,759        729,035       801,938       882,132  QQ 2
RetainedEarnings                       430,504       839,680      1,795,493      3,052,487     4,282,791     6,504,761     8,660,420    10,859,998    13,271,941     15,726,645   (D t
Total Liabilities & Ownrs'Equzty    12,121,577     11,851,156    12,597,837     13,737,859    14,975,533    17,241,676    19,491,335    21,836,456    25,024,901     28,473,557   o



iMilD WA7t1  SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
URBAN WATER SUPPLr SEcro
PROJECT  INIOME  STATMET
IM5           lf             fIn            Ifl          MP            230           2U1           2U2           2U3            204
O          w hmn
Water Saluk Pe                      13,507,686     13,560,800    18.840,420     23,962,480    26,162,080    28,704,000    29,900,000    31,280,000    31,050,000     31,500,000
Operaung Subai-ies                                       -                     -             -             -             -                    -             -              -
mu,iliac                              64424,907     6,667,915      6,859,722     7,055,723     6.829,162     6,888,068     6,949,330     7,013,043     7,106,513      7,250,000
rTaalOperagingRuvenues               19,932.593    20,228,715    25,700,142     31,018,203    32,991,242    35,592.068    34849,330     38,293,043    38,156,513     38,750.000
Sala,iu& Wqai                        2,458,100      2,858,293     2,829,150      2,975,980     3,117,438     3,265,785     3,421,362     3,429,267     3,437,371      3,445,676
Op.a6tngEe-fdifurus                  8,427,436      8,638,122     8,959,466      9,908,954    10,156,677    10,652,183    10,918,488    10,931,440    10,944.716     10.958,324
Taratm                                 148,309       130,456        137,163       141,016       149,253       158,050       167,450       177,502       188,258        199,776
Provizia,for Bad Debts /Chawng        3,281,826     3,041,423     3,237,395      3,452,603     3.646,912     3,947,695     4,411,094     5,031,686     5,256,686      5,448,686
Phaviri-farDepu-iaUwr                 4,857,535     5,930,892     6,760,287      7,618,318     8,064,917     8,401,235     8,572,016     8,776,954     6,581,879      6,874990
Miscodbeam                              98,667         87,995        91,329        95,267        99,077        103,040      107,162        111,449       115,907       120,543
Tra Operating Expenses              19,271,873     20,687,181    22,014,790     24,192,138    25,234,274    26,527,988    27,597,571    28,458,299    26,524,817     27.049,995
Operating Inome                        660,720       (458,466)    3,685,352      6,826,065     7,756,968     9,064,080     9,251.758     9,834,744    11,631,696     11,700,005
Income (I) onfinancad bans.          (3,560.541)    (2,860,032)    (4,667.844)    (5,359,225)    (5.415,141)    (5,299.244)    (5,524,896)    (5,545,884)    (5,097,189)  (4,525,905)
O°hr  1w.cerating inam                9,164,182                                              -             -             -             -             -                     -
Ne In0 e for th raw                   6,264,361    (3,318,497)     (982,492)     1,466,840     2,341,827     3,764,836     3,726,862     4,286,861     6,534,507      7,174,100
Opeang ratio                         73.7           72.1          64.9          59.6          57.4          54.7          54.7           52.7          51.8          49.7
0It
N.



REPUBLIC OF GUINFA
THIRD WATER SUPPLYAND SANITATIONPROJECT
URBAN WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
PROJECTED CASHFLOWSTATEUIEKS
(US$ '000)
Sexrcu effFend                                 1995          1996           1997          1998          1999          2000          2001          2002          2003           2004
Net income                           (3,069,167)    (3,318,497)    (982,492)     1,466,840     2,341,827     3,764,836     3,726,862     4,288,861     6,534,507      7,174,100
Depreciation Expenses                 4,857,535     5,930,892     6,760,287      7,618,318     8,064,917     8,401,235     8,572,016     8,776,954     6,581,879      6,876,990
ProvisionforBadDebts                  3,281,826     3,041,423     3,237,395      3,452,603     3,646,912     3,947,695     4,411,094     5,031,686     5,256,686      5,448,686
Interna Generation ofFw2ds            5,070,194     5,653,818     9,015,190     12,537,761    14,053,656    16,113,766    16,709,972    18,097,501    18,373,072     19,499,776
PrincipalRepayment                    1,857,375     3,173,016     5,753.492      7,692,304     7,816,001     7,925,216     8,038,856     8,621,637     8,856,078      9,009,575
Net Internal Cash Generation          3,212,819     2,480,802     3,261,698      4,845,457     6,237,655     8,188,550     8,671,116     9,475,864     9,516,994     10,490,201
Other Funds & Grants                 3,606,370      7,348,039     8,321,123      7,102,868     1,337,645      633,357      3,325,128     6,069,464     2,603,779     (1,864,482)
Disburamens on Borrowings           8,414,864     17,145,425    19,415,954    16,573,359     3,121,173     1,477,833     7,758,632     14,162,082    6,075,483      (4,350,458)
Total Sorces ofFunds                15,234,053     26,974,267    30,998,775     28,521,683    10,696,473    10,299,740    19,754,876    29,707,410    18,196,256      4,275,262
App&iena qfFends
Fr edAssets Additions                11,135,218    18,371,830    22,536,560     27,404,284    24,249,427    13,161,365     6,951,490    17,539,210    27,584,866     15,859,839
Work in Progress                       386,961      6,038,154     4,868,647     (1,390,000)   (14,627,496)    (4,402,561)    10,606,927  9,248,313    (11,918,025)    (12,791,630)
Foreign Exchange Variation            1,923,377     2,550,117     2,761,191      2,455,498     1,116,530      620,578      1,413,476     2,175,408     1,451,591       134,842
Toal applications ofFunds            13,445,556    26,960,102    30,166,397     28,469,783    10,738,461     9,379,383    18,971,893    28,962,931    17,118,433      3,203,051
Variation in Cash Balance          1,788,497        14,165       832,378        51,901       (41,988)       920,357       782,983       744,479     1,077,823      1,072,211
Cash atEnd ofrYear               1,788,497     1,802,662     2,635,040      2,686,940     2,644,952     3,565,309     4,348,292     5,092,771     6,170,594      7,242,805
Internal Cash contribution to invest.          23.9           9.2           10.8          16.2          24.6          59.4          45.7           32.7         32.8            65.6
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                    2.73          1.78           1.57          1.63          1.80          2.03          2.08          2.10           2.07           2.16    lb
Otl



IID WAIV  SUPPLY AND SANWATION PrOJECT
URBAN WATER SUPPLY SEBC7R
PRanJEwD  A4LUCE NIrSW  SFAZESAE
yEJs Iwo
mrs                                             a                      280           2m1           202           203            204
1nvvy                                 1.551.288     1,785,051      1.948,914     1,991,529      1,771,266     1,759.899     2,052.414     2,321,605     2.171,475      2,00,039
AcccwEsRemihIi                        7.992,120     4071,447       7,523.888     8.119,199     8,695,504      9,347,814    10,071.468    10,874,088    11.186,655     11,434,237
Ch .sdB.*                             1,788,497     1,802,662      2,635,040     2.686,940     2,644,952      3.565.309     4,3)4,292     5,092,771     6,170,594      7,242.805
CnwiwAat                             11,331,905     11.659,160    12.107.841     12,797.669   13.111.722     14,673.023    16,472,174    18,288.463    19.528,723     20,685,081
Grws PFiAsts                        130,691,164    149,062,994    171,599,534   199.003,838    223,253,265    236,414,631    243,366,121    260,905,331    288,490,197  304,350,036
DePO-                                18,395,050    23,640,900     29,677,821    35,706,612    41,467,580     46,628,459   51,562,357     57,028,345    63,766.931     71,086,288
NetF  tdAets                        112.296.114    125,422.095    141,921,733    163,297,226    181,785,685    189.786,172    191,803,767    203,876,986    224,723,266  233,263,748
Work ti Pvo                          16,295,081    22,333,235     27,201,882    25,794,693    11.167.197     6,764,636     17,371,563    26,619,876    14.701.851      1,910,221
EwuageRae TmkIEon Va..               10,176.208     12,726,325    15,487,516     17,943,014    19,059.344    19.680.123    21,093,599    23,269,007    24.720.Q98     24,855,440
FbwxAVktU                             1,860.698      1,860,698     1,860,698     1,860,698      1,860,698     1,860,698     1,860,698     1.860.698     1,860,698      1,860,698
roAdAwb                             151.960,006    174,001,513    198,379,670    221,693,301    226,984,847    232.764,652    248,601,798    273,915,030    283,535.136  282,575,187
lhks A O_uIN EEMIy
AcceowPayaNe                          6,177,856      4,035,771     4,797,134     4,625.766      2,458.254     1)31,692      3,457,176     4,879,310     3,126,701      1,242,961
Shan rem Mutwlay opL-r Debt           1.797,542      3,155,563     5.727,313      7,653.035     7,757,097     7,864.097     7,972,847     83550,347     8,663,597      8.778,597
AdigoIow                              3,251,011      4,244,747     3,893,939      2,472,611     1,988,455      970,634        99,457       (153,989)     (321,526)     (957,870)
Shr Tem. Liabitis                  11.226,409     11,436,080    14,418,386     14,751,411    12.203,806    10,666,423    11,529,480    13,275,668    11,468,772      9,063,688
tog  Fern Debt                       79.694,474    99,665,000    121,289,000    140,519,000    149,263.000    154,123,000    165,192.500    182.229,000    187.597,000  179.633,000
KIr        s ng miadonanLo. 10,176,208             12,726,325    15,487,516     17,943,014    19,059.544    19,680,123    21,093,599    23,269.007    24,720,598     24,855,440
Longl'e kLlabllidks                  89,870,682    112,391,325    136,776,516    158,462,014    168,322.544    173.803.123    186,286,099    205,498.007    212.317,598  204.508.440
hqulySh#wCaptd                       47,960,355     47,960,355    47,960,355     47,960,355    47,960,355    47.960.353    47,960,355    47,960,355    47,960,355     47,960.355
Pre'.*Ia.a&bervne                      374,110        411,521       452.673        497,940       547,734       602.508       662,759        729.035      801,938        882.132
Inva"rm Subfw7n                       7,364,721      9,957,000     8,109.000      7,692,000    3.279,000      1,296,000          -             -             -
Retdd5      n                        (4,836,271)    (8.154,768)    (9,137,260)   (7,670.420)    (5,328,593)    (1I563,757)  2,163.105     6.451,963    12.986,473     20,160,573
rTod LidbilIItl& Ouqrs' E"iy        151,960,006    174.001,513    198,579,670    221,693,301    226.984,847    232,764,652    24,601,798    273,915,030    285,535,136  282.575.187
Rwan Nt FixwdAmOku Oper                         1.0            1.5           28             4.5           4.5            5             5            5.0           5.4            5.1
P4






Annex 4-4
page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD WATER PROJECT
URBAN WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A.    GENERAL
1.    Financial projections have been carried out for the urban water supply sector with SONEG
and SEEG for its operations. They have been prepared in current GNF and domestic inflation
rates from the World Bank are as follows:
Estimated Annual
Fiscal Year       Inflation rate
1995                4.5
1996                4.3
1997                4.1
1998                4.0
1999                4.0
2000                4.0
2004                4.0
2.     As a result of the IMF assistance to monetary policy, the exchange rate has been fairly
stable for the last two years. The following average exchange rates are used in the financial
projections.
Fiscal Year        GNF/US$ 1
1995                994
1996               1,000
1997               1,030
1998               1,060
1999               1,090
2000               1,110
2004               1,180
B.    INCOME STATEMENTS
Redevance. The Government is committed to review after negotiations SEEG and
SONEG's tariff level. The consumer rate will remains flat: 880 GNF in 19994-1996, 940 GNF/
m3 in 1997-1999, 920 GNFlm3 in 2000-2002 and 900 GNF/m3 in 2003-2004. The Redevance
collected by SEEG on behalf of SONEG as part of the consumer rate is expected to increase from
the present rate of 370 GNF/m3 in 1996 to about 530 GNF/m3 in 1997. Thereafter, the proposed
redevance rate will be as follows: 560 GNF/m3 in 1998-1999; 520 GNF/m3 in 2000; and 515
GNF/m3 in the following years.
Tarif Exploitant. Tarif Exploitant collected by SEEG as a consumer rate to cover its
operations is expected to be decreased from the current 510 GNF/m3 in 1996 to about 410 GNF/m3
from 1997 and thereafter.



Annex 4-4
page 2 of 3
Tarif Exploitant Etranger. In conformity with the terms of the Second Water Supply
Project, the TEE ended on July31, 1995. However, because the water sales were low compared to
the projections, only FF69 million have been paid to SEEG out of the 100 million initially allocated
to the TEE.
Revenues from Connections. Price per connection is assumed to stay at US$ 240 for the
next three years and increase by the inflation rate thereafter. Number of connections executed per
year is assumed to be as follows: 6000 connections from 1996 to 1998; 5000 connections from
1999 to 2002; and 4000 connections thereafter.
Miscellaneous Revenues.  Miscellaneous revenues mainly include water sales revenues
that were due in previous years but not incurred and they also include provisions that were set
aside. Those revenues are finally collected in the very year when they appear.
Expenses. Operating costs (mainly salaries, maintenance equipment and chemicals) and
services (mainly subcontracting works, French Partenaire fees and missions and maintenance
activities) are assumed to increase in proportion with the inflation rate. However, the re-
negociation of the management contract is expected to lead to reduction of expatriate personnel and
the hiring of nationals and also to the reduction of investments costs in equipments and other
materials. The international inflation has been assumed for the imported elements of the above
expenses at 3% annually.
Provisions. SONEG. Provisions for bad debts include redevance which is not yet
transfered from SEEG. The rate used in the projections has been assumed to be 8% of sales
revenues from 1995 to 1999 and 5% of sales revenues from 2000 and thereafter. SEEG.
Provisions for bad debts include uncollectables and renewal of equipment. Their projections have
been averaged at about 26% of actual water sales revenues in 1995, 25% in 1996, 24% in 1997,
23% in 1998, 22% in 1999, 21% in 2000 and 20% in 2001 and therafter. Starting in 1996, the
management company shall have new incentive and penalty measures ammended to its
management contract and this new arrangements should progressively improve the ratio.
Depreciation. SONEG. Depreciation has been calculated on a straight-line basis at an
average annual rate of about 3.7% over the projected period. This rate reflects the current
weighted average depreciation rate. SEEG. Depreciation has been calculated on a straight-line
basis at an average annual rate of about 11% over the projected period. This rate reflects the
current weighted average depreciation rate.
C.    BALANCE SHEET AND FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
Accounts Receivable
3.    SONEG. The receivables are expected to decrease from the present 210 days of revenues
in 1995, to 138 days in 1997, 121 days in 1999, 90 days in 2000 and therafter. Redevance were
not always transferred to SONEG by SEEG as soon as collected. Thus the number of days of
receivables has always experienced a difference between SEEG and SONEG. SEEG. The
receivables are expected to decrease from the present 180 days of revenues in 1995, to 140 days in
1996, 110 days in 1997, 85 days in 1998, 75 days in 1999, 65 days in 2000 and 55 days in 2001
and therafter. The prospect of 1999 as the date to negotiate the second generation affermage



Annex 4-4
page 3 of 3
contract, based on a competitive bidding is expected to lead SEEG to implement clauses of the
current contract and transferred redevance as soon as collected.
Accounts Payable
4.    SONEG. Payables represent approximately 15% of the total amount of investmnents in
fixed assets in any given year. SEEG. Payables represent approximately 25% of the total amount
of investments in fixed assets in any given year.






DEMANDE EN EAU POTABLE --CUMUL GENERAL
| CUMUL GENERAL    I-.S                                                        %Tve             ...t  fl    e                  *'*TT:'u
honde la toe uaWine desservie        %      1561634   162 413 1690 951 1 759 876 1 831 818 1 906 919 1 984 682 2 06  423 2 16180 2 241121 2 334 322 2 432 56
pesser banewienp! peutler            %          13%        14%        15%       17%        18%        19%       21%        23%       25%       27%        29%        31%
pep  adha atuxvoimm                  %          26%        26%        27%       28%        28%       29%        29%        30%       31%        31%       32%        33%
dessn apar bornes ftontasn                 %           7%         9%        10%        11%       13%        14%       15%        17%       18%        19%       21%        22%
Taux de desstt pat b ease.u                           46%       49%        52%        56%       59%        62%        65%       69%        73%       77%        82%        86%
ll = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.9_O.&>::i:*:::S,.E 
consormation sp6ckq  par habitant
avec branchemenl palitulier              UliJh          45         45        45         45         45        45         45        45         44        44         44         44
&chat amx vohs                            UVLh          27         27        2?         27         27        26         26        26         26        27         27         27
aux bornes tortaines                      UJlh          20         20         20        21         21        21         21        21         21        21         21         21
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:.{.:%7                                                       *.  'i.A          :::.    *x' :~ x..     $k'Em
consommdon domestkps
branchements pafliculierS               m31J       20 O4      ?1 928    23 978     26161    28 484    30 957    33 580    37 247    41 179    45 392         49 9D4    54 74
b orr akn                           m31J        2 239     2 805      3 418      4 081     4 796      5568      6 398      7 208     8078       9 001     9991      11 
Total  m31J      22 243    24 734    27 396    30 242    33 260    36 524    39 977    44 455    49 2S4    54 393    59 894    65 795
instilulorlte
Total  m31J       16 616    17 552    18 519    19 519    20 553    21 624    22 732    23 729    24 767    25 850    26 979    28 156
canaaune_ton total aactur6a               m3/J      3 8859    42 280    45 916    49 761    53 134    60 148    62 710    68 184    74 021    80 243    88 873    93 951
m3Ymes   1 181 953  1 286 190  1 396 599  1 513 551  1 637 436  1 768 669  1 907 415  2 073 940  2 251 480  2 440 720  2 642 385  2 857 676
m31an  14 183 440 15 434 280 16 759 193 18 162 614 19 649 237 21 224026 22 888 974 24 887 284 27 017 764 29 288 639 31 708 624 34 292 107
Consommation rnoyanne de Ia pop. desssrvie    V       54,1       52.8      51.7       60.8      49,9       49,1       48.4      47.6       46.9      46.2       46,6       45,1
Consomm non lnfaduree (fraude)            m31J        3 537     4 302      3 885     3 505      3154       2 826     2 518      2 415     2 318      2 226     2 138      2 053
Rlenant du meseau                                      46%       52%        58%       64%        70%        75%       80%        80%       80%        80%       80%        80%
Producton nkeairk                         m31J      84 595    81 001    78 838    77 732    77 399    77 862    78 387   86 230    92  27   100 304   105 S91   117 439
m3/mois  2 573 094  2 463 787  2 398 000  2 364 335  2 354 235  2 362 212  2 384 268  2 592 425  2 814 350  3050900  3 302 982  3 57209
m3Jan  30 877 122 29 565 443 28 776 006 28 372 024 28 250 815 28 346 547 28611 218 31 1)9 105 33 772 205 36610 799 39 635 780 42 865 134
Production moyerne par habitant           tyh         S4.2       49.8      46.6       44,2      42.3       40.7       39.5      41,2        43       44.6       46.6       48.
Petoeme pw bncnehnt
de vprbsins p ranch er pafrcluer                 22         20         19        18         17        18         16        14         14         13        12         12
de bdr b         r       ar                       418        418       418        419       419        420       421        419       417        418        418       41
done dobmandhwmnta
mrnchemewpa.tecuhe adis                            18 357    20989      23 816     26 851    30 107    33 S0      37 331    42 730    48 516    54 714    61 348    68 46
fome g Fr4ahes                                   398       480        568        663       763        870       984      1 116      1 257      1 405     1 562      1 7
ranhemm4s parctuers ca        (winaclis            11 862     11 12     10 397      9 664     8 931      8 199     7 461      7 342      7 218     7 094      68970      6 8
man spil   des branwchmers_
um.nhen peticslabr                     U Ibrclt     1 090      1045      1 007       974        946        921       900        872       849        830        813       80              t4
borne bnaine                        1SF         5626      5 84       6013      6 159      6 285     6 397      6501      6 456      6426       6 406     6 398      6                 G ,
p2.;xA...At~*x:         o inz  S,   >.7S.j8 _ .9 .S                      :    '"    ''i ~       M
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



/



DEMANDE EN EAU POTABLE -CONAKRY
i-                             --                           --                            -                          --a                    n
GENERAL             1994      1995      1996  11997          1998      1999      2000      2001 -12002          2003      2004      2005
dslzonuutaNeim desservi         %       902 051   947 153   994 511 1 044 237 1 096 449  11 5271 1 208 834 1 269 276 1 332 740 1 399 377 1 469 34   1 542 813
de#eparbranchentewtputacu          %           16%       18%       19%       21%        22%       24%       25%       27%        29%       31%       33%        35%
a!s#   par achd au Vsms            %          33%        32%       32%       31%        31%       30%       30%       31%        32%       33%       34%       35%
de     p        fon,tam                  %           6%         8%        9%        11%       12%       14%       15%        16%       17%       18%       19%       20%
Tiux td dosate palsa basim                                    57%        60%       62%       65%       67%        10%       74%       76%       82%       86%        90%
C.                                 C   -OIC: :XC'.C.X.CC.X _lA: -i :j*E: hT_
avec brancemerd partculle               UJ/h          50         50        50        50        50         50        50        50        50        50         50        S
achat aux voimsins                      UVh           30         30        30        30        30         30        30        30        30        30         30        3
aux bornes fontfm                        UJlh         25         25        25        25        25         25        25        25        25        25         25        2
codo_>siq
sparticulera                  m3IJ       16 139    17 516    18 989    20 567    22 255    24 060    25 990    28 939    32 119    35 544    39 232    43 199
bomes fonianes                          m3/J        1 375     1 795     2 254      2 754     3 298     3 890     4 533     5 077      5 664     6 297     7 714
Total  m3/J      17 514    19 311    21 243    23 321    25 553    27 90    30 523    34 017    37 783    41 841    46 211    50 91
consounai kmnhsatdubonnhlle
Tota   m3/J      12 484    13 108    13 763    14 462    15 174    15 933    16 729    17 566    18 444    19 366    20 335    21 351
consamnatan total factunde              m3/J      29 998    32 419    36 007    37 772    40 727    43 883    47 253    61 583    56 227    61 208    66 546    72 264
m3/moms    912 432   986 067  1064 784  1148 908  1 238 783  1 334 772  1 437 264  1 568 968   1 710 250  1 861737  2 024 097  2 19803
m31an  10 949 179 11 832 799 12 777    13 786 897 14 865 391 16017 267 17 247 167 18 827 618 20 522997 22 340 844 24 289 169 26 376 473
Consommation moysnne de Ia pop. desservie   I/jlh   60.6       59.6      58,7      67.9      67.2       56,5      55.8      54.9      54.1      53.3       52,7        62
Consommtion non factwrde (fraude)       m31J        2 455     3 306     2 975      2 680     2 414     2 172     1 949      1873      1803      1 738     1 677      16
RPnrduntt du rsoa_                         41%       48%       54%       61%       67%        74%       80%       80%       80%        80%       80%       80%
Production nWkAssl                      m3/J      73 165    68 250    64 827    62 434    60 787    59 705    59 08    64 478    70 284    76 284    83 182    90 330
m31moms  2 225 443  2 075 930  1 971822  1 899 022  1 848 929  1 816017  1 796 580  1 961 210  2 137 812  2 327 171  2 530122  2 747 549
m3Yan  26 705 314 24 911 156 23 661 868 22 788 260 22 187 151 21 792 200 21 558 959 23 534 523 25 653 746 27 926 055 30 361 461 32 970 592
Production moyerne par ubitant          I/hIt       81.1       72,1      65,2      59.8      65.4       51.9      48.9      50.6      52.7      54,7       66.6      58.5
psaem pm branchow
de personres par branchefetpa iCier             11        11        1 1        1 1 1     1 1       11        1 1       1 1        1         II        11        1 1
deviamnpar branchenwpadiulier                   22        20        18        17         15        14        1 3       13         12        12        11        11
* de persore      near b orns aine  |50                   50         500       500       500t      500       sa         so        Stt_      500       500        500
___________par_bor        ___                                                      &Ma  .  90  r$1r.                              500       5004&~
a   e do buuwhmnta
Branchemient pawtiulie sactifs                   13 338    15 258    17 338     19 587    22 017    24 642    27 474    31 155    35 136    395437    44 080    49 09
eontaines                                      110        144       180       220       264       311        363       406       453       504       558        617
Ispancul  cos   s (isnactifs)             8 116     7 679     7 242     6 805      6 368     5 932     5 495     5 378      5         5 143     5 026     4
pspclquse des branchemerts                                                                                                                                                 >
sanchernenipautulmer                |fWucht       1210       1  148    1095      1050      1Ol        976       946       929        914       901       890
hore fonlah  |, ~* V/BF        12 500    12 500    12 500    12500    12 50       12 50     12 50      12 500    12 500    1250      120 0      12 50               Z
o>i
__k
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1~






ANNEX 6-1
page 1 of 3
GUINEA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1. This calculation is based on the proposed Water III Project, for which 40-year project
life is assumed, in addition to the on-going Water II Project and other proposed
projects. All cost and benefit figures are expressed in January 1994 prices. The prices
used in the analysis are net of duties and taxes.
2. The beneficiaries of the project are estimated to be about two million. Demand for
water was projected taking into account an annual population growth of 4.1%, and an
improved water service ratio from the current 55% in 1994 to 90% in 2005. Given the
estimated total capacity of 52,165,000 m3/year (36,500,000 m3/year for Conakry and
15,665,000 m3/year for all other cities), of which 20% is assumed to be unaccounted
for due mainly to leakage from bulk transmission pipelines, water production is
assumed to grow to supply demand, until capacity of most systems is reached in the
year 2008. All analysis is based on nationwide economic effects which include both
Conakry and other cities.
3. The long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of water supply system, as expressed in the
average incremental cost (AIC), is estimated as 1,027 GF/m3, using a 10% discount
rate reflecting the opportunity cost of capital. Detailed calculations are given in the
following table. In 1995 average, the consumer rate is 880 GF/m3, which is already
much higher than the average tariff in the neighboring countries. It is expected that the
real LRMC decreases substantially as the institutional reforms take into effect, and that
the consumer rate converges to the real LRMC in the long run.
4. For sanitation component, 150 GF/m3 is assumed to be the average conusmer rate of
waste water treatment, in addition to 15 GF/m3 for surcharge on water.
5. The economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated for the stream of net
incremental benefits resulting from the project.
6. Costs    Capital Costs include the all physical components of the expansion of the
water supply system up to the year 2001. Using standard conversion factor (=0.87),
foreign exchange portion has been adjusted upward.
7. Incremental operating costs, derived from the financial projections, have been adjusted
downward to eliminate indirect operating expenses including depreciation and
taxation. A 5% constant annual increase is assumed up to the year 2008 when the
water consumption is expected to reach to a full capacity. Also, foreign exchange
portion has been shadow priced.



ANNEX 6-1
page 2 of 3
water consumption is expected to reach to a full capacity. Also, foreign exchange
portion has been shadow priced.
8. Benefits  Incremental revenues from the sale of water and the amount of waste water
treated have been taken as a proxy for direct use benefits. In addition, consumer's
surplus is estimated assuming a linear demand curve with constant price elasticity of -
0.2.
9. Results   Detailed calculations are given in the following tables. Taking into account
all investments for the expansion of water system in Conakry and other cities up to the
year 2001, the project's ERR is 13.5%, while the ERR for sanitation component yields
only 5.3%, and total ERR 13.3%. We have also conducted he sensitivity analysis
which measures the risks against the cost-overrrun, lower demand, and delay in
implementation is summarized in the table below.
9. This rate is expected to become higher if the analysis captures the project's full
benefits, including such posititive externalities, as improved sanitary conditions and
health and productivity as the result of the better availability and quality of water
which cannot be quantified.
Estimated rates of return for various project scenarios
1'medi scehafilh                        lsfirmwd A. RR
Base Case "most likely" scenario        13.3%
10% increase in water investment costs  12.8%
10% increase in water operating costs   13.2%
10% increase in total water costs       12.8%
20% increase in water investment costs  12.3%
20% increase in water operating costs   13.2%
20% increase in total costs             12.3%
50% lower projection water demand       10.0%
2 year delay in implementation          10.2%



ANNEX 6-1
page 3 of 3
Year  Incr Revenue from  Estimate of Consumer  Net Beneft from Urban  Net Beneft from  Total with All
Urban Water   Surplus          Water                 Sewer           Benefits
1989              0                0                 0               0              0
1990         274,920           46,461          -634,228              0        -634,228
1991         530,271          131,046         -5,490,269             0       -5,490,269
1992       1,281,430          346,137        -32,174,810             0      -32,174,810
1993       2,560,390          807,786        -31,770,895             0      -31,770,895
1994       3,909,299        1,462,409           590,973              0         590,973
1995       4,976,402        2,177,667        -25,275,170       -108,000     -25,383,170
1996       6,106,627        3,019,908        -27,000,708       -108,000     -27,108,708
1997       7,304,239        3,986,588        -14,814,729      -2,723,000    -17,537,729
1998       8,571,797        5,075,074         -2,256,159      -5,338,000    -7,594,159
1999       9,915,272        6,286,676         -1,278,320      -2,723,000     -4,001,320
2000      11,335,517        7,618,946        14,366,152         517,335     14,883,487
2001      13,039,811        9,272,761        19,671,717         547,305     20,219,022
2002      14,857,554       11,088,696        25,140,582         579,270     25,719,852
2003      16,794,717       13,070,129        29,016,612         613,335     29,629,947
2004      18,858,977       15,222,737        33,188,787         649,635     33,838,422
2005      21,062,276       17,557,263        37,679,684         688,380     38,368,064
2006      23,402,362       20,069,745        42,482,977         729,530     43,212,507
2007      25,929,655       22,813,514        47,702,301         773,973     48,476,274
2008      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2009      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2010      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2011      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2012      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2013      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2014      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2015      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2016      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2017      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2018      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2019      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2020      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2021      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2022      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2023      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2024      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2025      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2026      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2027      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2028      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2029      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2030      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2031      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2032      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2033      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2034      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
2035      27,408,596       24,431,123        50,744,524         799,980     51,544,504
ERR                                              13.5%            5.3%          13.3%
NPV                                          51,992,887      -1,897,643     50,095,245
@10






ANNEX 6-2
Page 1 ot 10
4 PLANDE GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTALE _/
4.1 OBJECTIFS DU PLAN
Le Plan de Gestion Environnementale (PGE) vise l'attenuation correcte et
le suivi des impacts les plus significatifs Mies au projet. Le PGE integre
dgalement des mesures destinees au renforcement des capacites
institutionnelles du secteur de l'eau et la prise en compte de l'environnement
Le PGE a pour objectifs:
-La description des mesures d'attenuation proposees;
-La determination des etapes d'application des mesures;
-L'identification des indicateurs des changements de l'environnement et des
conditions socio-economiques
-La designation des responsabilites institutionnelles pour la gestion
environnernentale;
- L'6laboration de recommandations en vue du reforcement des capacites
institutionnelles et de la formation des cadres en gestion de l'environnement
et des ressources en eau.
L'estimation sommaire des coOts des mesures d'attenuation proposees.
4.2 RAPPEL DES IMPACTS
Dans le contexte de ce projet, aucun deplacement n interviendra car les
sites prevus pour l'implantation des reservoirs de la Cimenterie et de K36
(Kag Belen) sont a la limite de la zone urbaine et sont actuellement
inoccupes. Par ailleurs, les travaux du reservoir de Simbaya consistent en
la realisation d'un ouvrage a cot6 de celui de 2500 m3 deja existant.
Les impacts potentiellement significatifs resulteront de:
.L'augmentation de la capacite de stockage et F'amnlioration de
I'approvisionnement en eau potable de la population urbaine de Conakry.
Cet effet peut etre benefique comme il peut aussi generer une
deterioration de la situation sanitaire en fonction de l1'tat de l'hygiene et
de l'assainissement en milieu urbain
*L'augmentation du traffic d'engins lourds des chantiers (pelles, gros
porteurs, excavateurs etc) et des risques d'accident avec les vehicules et
pietons, usagers habituels des routes d'acces
*L'excavation et le derangement de quantites importantes de materiaux
rocheux et graveleux qui peuvent etre entraines par le ruissellement et
colmater les lits des rivieres et les depressions a vocation maralich&re
1/ Source: Evaluation des Impacts sur l'Environnement du Troisieme
Projet Eau de Guinee, Juillet 1995; Tropica SARL
Environmental Consultants



TIALEAU 7: ATTENUlATION DES IMPACTS SIGNIFICATIFS LIES AU PROJET
IMPACT                  MESURES                 RESPONSABiLITE          PERIODE                 COUT ESTiMt             INDICATEUR DE
D'A1TENUATION           INSTITITIONNELLE    D'INTERVENTION                                      SUM  (AUDrl)
PROPOSEES               POUR L'APPLICATION
Accidents entre usagers et  ContrOles contractuels du  Conctant supervis6 par  Construction des  Nul                    R6duction des accients
engins et vehicules de  comprtenent des         l'Ingenieur de construction reservoirs et pose de                       du trafic
projet                  condudeus des rwtes et                          conduile
des beums de ciwulation   _
Dechage de maniaux      Minimiser les quantites de Contractant supervise par  Construction des  Fait partie des operations  Evidence d'une
d'excavation et transport  dechets d'excavation en Ies I'ingenieur; Audit par la   r,servoirs et pose de  d'Ingenieurie; pas  augmentation de la
vers les rivibes        reutilisant pour l'entretien  SONEG et Directeur des   conduites        d'increment financier    charge solide des rivieres
des routes d'acces,     Travaux Publics
utilisation efficiente des
ande   n caries
Fetrnetute de voies     Recrutement de vigiles    Contractant supervise par  Construction et    CoOt bas:                Controle de chantiers
publiques              rtglementant le tric aux  la SONEG               maintenance des conduites salaires des vigiles   Presence effective de
abords des chantiers;                                                                            vigiles;
infonmation du public                                                                            minutes des
avant fermeture                                                                                  communiqu6s de presse
Ouvertre aux pietons,
ouvetture au trafic autx
heures de Pointe
Traversee des iones     Mise en place de structure  SONEG               Conception du Projet     Coat moyen;             Calcul des distances
hurnides                port6es                 Ministere Environnement                          Ancrage a la roche des  concenes et integration
pylones                 aux coOts estirnes du
._____________________  ______________________                           ______________________  P ro iet.
Reduite la largeur de   SONEG                   Pose de conduites       CoOt faible              ContrOle post-chantier et
1'emprise;              Min.Environnement                                                        P.V. de compensation
_des      Collectivit6s lcales
Idetc m  iauxditis Q
0 I
m
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~",1
* . .    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



IMPACT
MESURES                 RESPONSABILITE          PERIODE                 COUT ESTIME             INDICATEUR DE
DATlENUATION            INSTInUlMONNELLE        D'INIERVENlON                                   SUPVI (AUDnT)
PROPOSEES               POUR L'APPLICATION
Ouverture de tranchees au  Execution rapide des  Contractant supervis6 par  Pose des conduites  Nul                      Controle de chantiers et
travers de la route    travaux, rebouchage      la SONEG et Directeur                                                    des signaux de deviation
provisoire;             des Travaux Publics
programmation des
deviation de la circulation
Crevasses               Colmatage et rebitumage  Contractant SONEG      Pose de conduties       CoOt faible              Reduction des accidents;
post-chantiers                                  Travaux Publics                                                          Etat des routes
Occupation illegale de la   Materialisation de la zone  SONEG           Apres travaux           CoGt faible              Evidence d'empietement
zone d'emprise          par bornage et information Direction de                                                          sur la zone bornEe
des coUectivites locales   I'Amenagement Urbain
Exhumation des tuyaux    Cimenter les zones de  SONEG                   Pose de conduites       Cout faible              Visibilite des tuyaux;
traversees des routes non-                                                                      profondeur
bitumees                                                                                         d'enfouissement et
cimentation
Evolution du prix de
Augmentation du prix de   Baisse ou Gcl de la   SEEG                    Apres-Projet            Nul                      1'eau
1'eau                  .trancbe Wdiak           controle par Min.
compensation par        Hydauwique
augmentation du nombre
.___________________   d'abonnes
Augmentation du volune  Amelioradion de         SONEG                   Pendant et apres le projet  CoOt Eleve           Prevalences des maladies
des eaux usees          I'assainissement collectif  Min.Environnement                                                    bydriques
et individuel           collectivites locales
(concepion de projets)
*  ;-                  -0 .



IMPACT                  MESURES                 RESPONSABILITE          PERIODE                  COUT ESTMIA             INDICAIEUR DE
D'ATIINUA11ON           INSnTI1JONNELLE         D'INTERVENTION                                   SUIVI (AUDMl)
PROPOSEE                POUR L'APPLICATION
Dpgradation, d6grioraton  Esimation des besoins a   SONEG                Dfsign,                 Coit faible              Bilam entrc-sortie dans
des infrastuclures      de la perodicid de la                           consirucion                                      les secions hyderauliqucs
nmanienance amElioration                        et aprts-projet
des moyens logisdiques et
de la surveillance       _
Dfgralaiion die la qtalitl   Suivi du traitement au  SONE-G              Aprts-projet            CoOt moyeco (Produils de   Qualit6 bacitriologique
de 1'eau potable suite a    niveau des stations;  Min.Santc                                      trailemeni Analyse de'eau  ct physique de l1eau
I'augmentation de la    conirBle de la qualitl de    SEEG                                        ap4ts prilvemeiht)      distribuee; Baisse des
consommation            1'eau distribu6c damns le                                                                         rvaleurs des maladies
concessions                 i                                                                    hydrique et de la
.__________________ ___________________ ___________________ __________________ fr6quencc des epiJdemics
Rajout d'uinc Laue      Subvention die          SONULG                   Coiisiruclaon;          coot 6)CV6              FrEuenc des t!piddmies
d'enteticMAssainissemcnt I'assainissement collectif  collectivilts locales  Apats-projet                                 collectif nombre
au prix de l'eau        par I'EtattPromotion de                                                                          d'ouwve
l'asanlnssmeint                                                                                  d'Assainissement
individuel                                                  r_acturation au client
OQlf
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( p
0I1



ANNEX 6-2
Page5 of 10
pour degats aux cultures pourrait etre elabore, de preference sur la base
de- Irestimation du manque a gagner en recoltes et non pas en pieds
d'arbres fruitiers ou en superficie maralch6re
*La Direction Nationale de la Securite Publique pour l'escorte des convois
d'engins lourds, la securite et le reglement de la circulation aux abords
des chantiers
*La Direction des Travaux Publics pour l'identification des zones propices
au dumping de materiaux d'excavation (anciennes carrieres) et la
refection des chaussees deformees
*La Direction de l'Urbanisme pour la conformite des composantes du projet
aux plans directeurs d'urbanisme et d'assainissement et la surveillance de
l'6volution de l'habitat spontan6 dans les zones du projet.
*La cellule de cartographie (automatique) de la SEEG pour le suivi du
reseau d'AEP (entretien et contr6le des branchements et des volumes
-d'eau)
*Le Laboratoire National de Sante Publique pour l1'chantilonlnage et
l'analyse a la sortie de la qualite bacteriologique des eaux
La procedure la plus indiquee est la convocation d'une reunion
d'information et de coordination des l'acquisition du financement ou lors
des passations de marches (pour permettre aux entrepreneurs d'en faire
partie) et la constitution d'un comite de suivi pilote par la SONEG.
L'organisation de reunions periodiques de mise a niveau de l'information.
Ces reunions peuvent etre calees sur la p6riodicite des rapports sur 1'etat des
travaux.
4.4 Audit environnemental
Etant donne l'envergure des travaux projetes et l'importance des impacts
potentiels surtout en matiere sociale, il est indique qu'un specialiste
environnemental independant fasse partie des equipes d'evaluation
p6riodique organisee par la SONEG et les bailleurs de fonds dans le 2adre
du suivi de 1'ex6cution des travaux.
L'audit environnemental externe fait partie de la politique de nouveau cycle
de projet et de prise en compte de l'environnement pour la gestion durable
des ressources naturelles a la Banque Mondiale.
L'audit peut etre simplifie s'il part des rapports sur ltat d'ex6cution des
travaux et se resume en un contr6le des taches confiees aux experts de la
SONEG.
Les taches de l'auditeur environnemental externe seront:
*Consultation de la SONEG, du comite de pilotage et des communaut6s



ANNEX 6-2
Page 6 of 10
locals aoncernees par l'attenuation des effets contenus dans le rapport
*Visite.-de-sites de reservoirs et des r6seaux d'AEP et discussion avec les
ingenieurs charges de l'execution des travaux (des lots specifiques)
* Elaboration d'un rapport de restitution a la SONEG et, si necessaire, aux
bailleurs de fonds (dans le contexte d'un financement phase).
Le tableau 8 presente les indicateurs de suivi pour les impacts potentiels les
plus significatifs de la construction et de l'operation des reservoirs et des
reseaux de distribution d'eau potable. Dans le contexte de litiges pouvant
freiner l1ex6cution des travaux et dont le denouement suppose un arbitrage
juridique, l'auditeur peut aider a une mediation environnementale selon les
procedures strategiques consacrees en matiere de planification
environnementale (facilitation de r6unions, procedures de compensation,
mediation et arbitrage par consultation croisee).
L'audit peut aussi aider la SONEG a mieux preparer les dossiers
environnementaux dans le cadre de projets futurs et a doter ses agents de
-connaissances valables quant a I'application des principes acquis lors des
s6minaires de formation dans les domaines pour lesquels des besoins de
formation ont et identifies en collaboration avec les services concernes
(voir plan de formation)



ANNEX 6-2
Page 7 of 10
Tableau 8: R6capitulation et classement des mesures limitatives des impacts negatifs du projet
Impact ndgatif          Mesures                           Coat             Detail des actions    Periode    Acteurs
1. Contamination de la   (i) respect des normes de       Compris dans le  (i) Cahier des       T-12 a      (i) DATU,
nappe phreatique par le   conception des reseaux et      coOt des          clauses techniques,   T+36      entreprises
systeme de collecte     utilisation de conduites en PVC,    travaux?       surveillance des                (ii) DATU,
(ii) rdhabilitation des ouvrages                  travaux et tests                Operateur,
degages et des branchements, (iii)                d'tanch6ite,                    (iii) DATU
entretien pr6ventif des                           (ii) et (iii) cahier
canalisations                                     des charges                     (iv) DATU,
d'exploitation et              Operateur
criteres de
performance
Contamination de la     (i) Impermeabilisation des fonds    (i) Compris    (i) Cahier des       (i) T-12    (i) DATU,
nappe phreatique par     de bassin et des parois,         dans le cott des   clauses techniques,   A T+36  entreprises
infiltration des eaux   (ii) surveillance de la qualite de    travaux?     surveillance des
usees-lagune            I'eau traitee et de Ir nappe      (ii) 2 MFG/an    travaux et tests de
permeabilit6,
(ii) 2 series
d'analyses tous les
15 jours            (ii) A     (ii) DATU,
partir de   Op$rateur,
T36        Ministere
Environne
ment
Risques de noyade et de   Mise en defens du site de       Compris dans le  Plans, devis         (i) T-12    DATU,
prelevement de 1eau     lagunage                          coait des        quantitatif,         A T+36     Entreprise
travaux?         bordereau des prix
Degagement de           (i) Entretien des bassins         (i) Convention    (i) Convention et    (i) A     (i) DATU,
mauvaises odeurs A                                        de l'opdrateur,    manuel             partir de   Opdrateur
proximit6 du site                                                          d'exploitation       T36
(ii) Coatt des   (ii) Cahier des
(ii) implantation d'une haie coupe   travaux      clauses techniques,  (ii) T-12   (ii) DATU,
vent                                              plans, devis des     A T+36     Entreprise
travaux
Developpement de        Entretien des bassins             Convention de    Convention et        a partir    DATU,
moustiques                                                l'operateur      manuel               de T36     Operateur
d'exploitation
Epandage des boues de    Sechage des boues et mise en     Convention de    Convention de        a partir    DATU,
vidange des bassins     decharge ou cocompostage avec    l'operateur ou    l'operateur          de T36     Operateur
ordures mdnageres                financement par
utilisateur final
Accidents sur les sites    Information et sensibilisation des   Compris dans le   Cahier des clauses    T-12 A  DATU,
des travaux             chauffeurs et travailleurs,       cott des         techniques           T36        Entreprise
reducteurs physiques de vitesse    travaux?
(dos d'ane), signalisation
Bruits et poussieres    Travaux execut6s pendant le jour   Compris dans le   Cahier des clauses    T-12 A  DATU,
et humidification des zones de   coat des travaux  techniques          T36        Entreprise
circulation des engins



ANNEX 6-2
Page 8 of 10
4.5 FORMiTION ET APPUI INSTITUTIONNEL
Lors des discussions avec les cadres des services concemrs par le Troisieme
Projet Eau, nous avons pu identifier des domaines pour lesquels un besoin
de formation existe reellement en relation avec la gestion de
1'environnernent et des ressources en eau.
Les 5 domaines prioritaires ci-apres ont et identifies:
*Planification et gestion des ressources hydrauliques;
*Strategies de gestion et politiques de l'environnement;
*Cartographie automatique et SIG pour la surveillance de r6seaux et de
bassins fluviaux
*Planification et environnement urbains; int6gration environnement
am6nagement et gestion des risques
-Approvisionnement . en eau .eE sant6 publique;. approche sante
environnementale, anthropologie de lMhygine et du comportement;
*Analyse quantitative des ressources hydrologiques; t6lem6trie, gestion de
reseaux de postes; collecte et analyse de donnees, informatique de gestion
Ces th6mes peuvent etre trait6s sous forme de s6minaires nationaux par des
cadres expatries ou nationaux avec l'appui de l'Institut de Developpement
Economique. En effet, l'IDE a une formule de seminaires de formation de
cadres nationaux qui beneficient de l'appui financier de la cooperation bi-
laterale (France, Pays-Bas, Belgique, etc.)
La formation theorique et les seances on-the-job trainning peuvent aussi
etre confiees a des institutions ou a des firmes specialisees telles que:
*Sir Alexander GIBB and Partners (Grande Bretagne) pour I'automatisation
des postes d'observation, la cartographie automatique; planification et
gestion des ressources hydrologiques;
*Blue Nile Associates aux Etats-Unis avec l'appui de Tenessee Valley
Authority pour les bassins fluviaux, strategies de gestion et politiques de
1 environnement, approvisionnement en eau et sante publique,
planification et environnement urbain;
Lors des seminaires et on-the job-trainning, il sera possible d'identifier les
formes d'appui institutionnel necessaires 'a l'utilisation des connaissances
acquises; outillage informatique, logistique, financier, etc.
En terme d' appui institutionnel, il sera necessaire de doter principalement la
DNH et la SONEG de moyens logistiques, materiels et hurnains necessaires
pour une gestion plus rationnelle des reseaux et de la qualitE de l'eau
potable.



ANNEX 6-2
Page 9 of 10
Cet appui s'impose si on veut que le modele de gestion de l'AEP parvierne
A diminuer les entrayes A son bon fonctionnement car ces services ont une
vocation publique et ne devraient pas souffrir de problemes qui, a long
terme, peuvent avoir des repercussions sur les actions de reglementation de
1'exploitation des ressources en eau.
Nous proposons ci-apres un calendrier indicatif des activites a entreprendre
pour la formation et l'appui institutionnel ainsi qu'une evaluation des codts
et mecanismes de financement.
1/ REUNION DE DESIGN ET DE PLANIFICATION DE LA
FORMATION ET DE L'APPUI INSTITUTIONNEL
Duree: 1 jour
Organisateur: Direction Technique de la SONEG
ParticiDants: Partenaires du Proiet Eau III: Direction de l'Hydraulique,
SEEG et SNAPE
Ordre du Jour: Choix des institutions qui pourront beneficier de la
formation et de l'appui, choix d'un comite de suivi dirige par un
coordonnateur des activites et discussion sur la mise en oeuvre des
recommandations et sur l'organisation du Seminaire de Gestion
Environnementale.
Cout estime 25000 US Dollars: Frais de restauration, salle de reunion, frais
de consultation pour le consultant responsable de 1'evaluation
environnementale.
2/ SEMINAIRE DE FORMATION EN GESTION
ENVIRONNEMENTALE
Duree: 10jours
Organisateur: Comite de Suivi
Participants (30): Partenaires du Projet Eau III: Cadres de la SONEG, de la
Direction de l'Hydraulique, de la SEEG, du SNAPE, Ministere de
l'Environnement,
Co6t estime 100 000 US Dollars: Location d'une salle de conf6rence ct de
la restauration, contrat de consultation avec les bureaux d'etudes
specialisees, frais de supervision par la Banque Mondiale.
Themes du seminaire:
*Planification et gestion des ressources hydrauliques
*Strategies de gestion et politiques de l'environnement



ANNEX 6-2
Page 10 of 10
*Cartographie automatique et SIG pour la surveillance de reseaux et de
bassins fluviawux.
*Planification et environnement urbains; integration environnement
am6nagement et gestion des risques
*Approvisionnement en eau et sante publique; approche sante
environnementale, anthropologie de l'hygiene et du comportement
*Analyse quantitative des ressources hydrologiques; telemetrie, gestion de
r6seaux de postes; collecte et analyse de donnees, informatique de gestion,



Amnex 6-3
page I of 4
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY (English)
The environmental assessment of the sanitation of Conakry urban sewages by means of lagoons,
enters within the framework of the Third Urban Project, which financing is mainly given by the IDA.
One part of the Third Urban Project concems the rehabilitation and the extension of the sanitation
network. An orientation and strategy report titled "Programme de l'Amelioration de I'Environnement
Urbain et de I'Assainissement de Conakry", has been presented by the GREA in June 1993. This
report is named PADEULAC report. There are two versions of the report, one dated 1993, the
other dated 1994. The two versions have been examinated.
The PADEULAC report studies globally the sanitation system in Conakry: urban runoff and waste
water sanitation, collection, transportation, storage of household refuse.
The environmental assessment proposed in the terms of reference concems the sanitation of
wastes from Conakry by means of the lagoons technique. This is to be done in two places:
Petit-Bateau, where the lagoons are to be built offshore,
Matoto-OBK, for the sanitation of another quarter of Conakry.
The expertise has been conducted in Conakry from May 28 to June 7 1995, followed by a period
of writing the report in France, from June 8 to 20. Thirteen organisms have been consulted locally,
some of these several times, and more than 30 persons have been interviewed.
A synthetic description of the characteristics of the lagoons and of the environment of the studied
zones is given, including land, sea, population, health conditions, without forgeting the current
regulation procedures and traditional and institutional structures implicated.
An analysis of the project proposed in the two PADEULAC reports has been made. Thus, the
environment of the project of lagoons has been studied as precisely as possible and we have
judged useful to establish a layout and design of the basins, including the sizing and the choice of
a geometry for the lagoons, the performances being calculated within the limits of the climatic
conditions, say:
dry season        : rainfall = 0 mm, evaporation 5 mm/j
wet season           July rainfall = 1500 mm, 0 mm for evaporation
Evacuations have been calculated for a shower of a periodicity of 10 years totalizing 43 mm within
15 minutes. Flood discharge may be more than 11 m3/s flowing over the dike.
HORIZONS S.A.            World Bank/Lagunage Conakryl/5501             10/01196.i



We proposed the following organization and dimensions for the two systems of lagoons  page 2 of 4
PETIT-BATEAU                 units     Lagoon 1      Lagoon 2    Lagoon 3
Dimensions                    m          450 x 300    250 x 200    250 x 200
Depht of the water            m                3.5          1.2          1.2
Area at the top               m2          135 000        50 00g.     50 000
Aerobic volume                m3           159 849       58 713       58 713
Anaerobic volume              m3          220 532              1            1
Duration of treatment        days            38.7           5.6          5.4
MATOTO-OBK                         units         Lagoon 1      Lagoon 2
Dimensions                           m               110 x 70       110x70
Depht of the water                   m                   3.5             1.5
Area at the top                     m2                 7 700          7 700
Volume                          _   m3                24800           11 150
Duration of treatment              days                 35.5           16.1
The average performance of the treatment has been calculated as a target, taking in account
pollution inputs and the season effect (hydrologic balance of the lagoons).
PETIT-BATEAU
BODS at the input:   710 mg/I
BOD5 at the ouput:  142 mg/l (expected 80 % pollution abatment)
Input 710 mg/l        Duration    BODS      BOD5   Performance   Performance
6,600 kg BOO5/day      days      effluent    diluted    (Qs=Qe)    after diluting
9,300 m3/d = Qe                   mg/l       mg/l        %        or concentrating
Dry season                56.5        113       129           84            82
Average             T     49.71       142       117           80-           84
July (the wet)            36.81      215        129           701           97
MATOTO-OBK
BOD5 at the input: 1,286 mg/I
BOO5 at the ouput: 257 mg/I (expected 80 % pollution abatment)
Input 1,286 mg/l   1 Duration    BOD5       BOD5   Performance   Performance
900 kg BOO/5day        days      effluent    diluted    (Qs=Qe)    after diluting
700 m3/d = Qe                     mg/I       mg/ I                or concentrating
Dry season                59.0       195        281          85             78
Average                   51.61      257        262           80            80
July (the wet)            37.21       391       192           70            85
These pollution abatments are sufficient; they complies with norms used in Europe, as far as the
norms for Guinea have not yet been defined.
Expertises and complementary studies, prior to the realization of the design project, the redaction
of tender documents and dependent tasks, have been defined. These studies concem essentially,
for Petit-Bateau the definition of the height of dikes which will flood ,they will have to resist to the
attack -of swells and, especially, to allow the direct and passive evacuation of flood discharges
generated by the basins under the heavy showers occuring during the wet.
HORIZONS S.A.            World Bank/Lagunage Conakry/05501            10/01/96, ii



pape 3 of 4
Furthermore, our first estimates of dike dimensions, by admitting that the non alterated rock is at
the zero of marine maps, are:
height                                around 7 m at the head of the lagoon
width in crest                        5 m
width at the base                     > 33 m for a bank slope 2/1 (base/height)
These dimensions are different of those proposed in the PADEULAC report dated 1993.
In addition, we recommend the installation of an automatic control device to detect toxics either
chemical or antibiotics, upstream the intake basin of the last pumping station, before flowing to the
lagoon:; this control system must switch-off the pumps and open a by-pass to divert wastes to a
storage reservoir, or, at the worse, direct to the sea.
Programs and schedules have been calculated. To fill-up de lagoons with water, they must be
achieved, at thb standpoint of civil works, before the wet, say june at the latest time.
The institutional setting has been eimmined with the SONEG-SEEG model. DATU should be
designed as the Delegated Implementing Agency.
An indispensable set of accompanying actions has been explained. One can summarize it under
the following topics: Information-Training-Evaluation.
The cost of the project and dependent actions can be calculated only at the level of layout or
design project. The dimensions of the basins and equipments have been largely modified as
compared to available data. The expected cost of 3,900 millions guinea francs given in the 1994
PADEULAC report must be calculated again.
CONAKRY, counts 1 300 000 residents today, will totalize 2 800 000 citizens in 2010. With an
infantile mortality rate of 148 for a thousand, a cholera epidemic every year, more than 50 % of the
active population not employed, there is some necessity to solve rapidly sanitation problemns and
urban hygiene. Furthermore, waste sewerage cannot be effective unless urban runoff sewerage
and collection of household refuse are not functionning.
An analysis of the impacts of the project on the environment is presented ; p5sitive and negative
impacts, cf the lagoons during the works and when the lagoons are functional are separated. The
transportation of materials seems to be worrying during the works. Mitigation and compensatory
measures of negative impacts have been studied with Guinean authorities. Reducing the negative
impacts concern especially the civil works phase; after works, negative impacts will come from a
bad supervision, a bad maintenance of lagoons, or a breakdown of the system of supplying the
lagoons with waste water (stopping of the pumps, irruption of a toxic in the system).
They are two expected compensatory measures
-  organization of the circulation of pedestrians on the Petit-Bateau dike during the yard,
- construction of a football stadium to replace that established on the site of Matoto-O8lK
Impacts of the "lagunage" will be largely positive in land, on the shore and off shore. Benefits for
the population will be excellent at the point of view of health, environment, conditions of good
living ; at the moment, all wastes (domestic and industrial) go direct to the sea. Even fishing
activities are under the menace.
The only serious negative impacts (bad smells, destabilization of lagoons) c-an result of a bad
monitoring of the treatment as seen above.
Follow-up and evaluation of the functioning of lagoons, and more generally of all sanitationi
devices, should be carried-out by means of conventions with scholastic and university
establishments, under the supervision of a specialized independent organism that would act as
delegated project manager
HORIZONS S.A.            World Bank/Lagunage ConakryI05501           10101i96. iii



TABLEAU RECAPITULATIF DU PLAN DATTENUATION DES IMPACTS
ACTIVITES, IMPACTS, MESURES REDUCTRICES ET MESURES COMPENSATOIRES
MESURES REDUCTRICES                  MESURES COMPENSATOIRES                  RESPONSABiLITES
ETUDES PREALABLES A L'APD
Reconnaissance roche saine A Petit-Bateau                                                                                      DATU, consullance
Nature-epaisseur s6diments A Petit-Beleau                                                                                      DATU, consultance
Elude geolechnique malerieux pour digues                                                                                       DATU, BGGA
Elude geolechnique parois a Matoto                                                                                             DATU, BGGA
Direction-force courants cole Nord                                                                                             DATU, consultance
Recherche systeme automatique delection loxiques                                                                               DATU, SEEG
Leves topographiques                                           .                                                               DATU, enlreprise
ETUDES D'AVANT-PROJET DETAILLE (APD)
Elat initial environnemenlal                                                                                                   DATU, consullance
APD Lagunage, DCE, AMT, PEO                                                                                                    DATU, consultance
Etude d'impact complele                                                                                                        DATU, consultance
Choix el conlrals entreprises                                                                                                  Etal, DATV
ACTIONS PREALABLES AU CHANTIER
Digue de Pelit-Baleau, acces au restaurant                                             Organisalion circulalion populalion     Maitre d'Ouvrage
Site de Matolo-OBK                                                                     Cr6alion nouveau slade foolbbll         Maitre d'Ouvrage
Mobilisation des medias, information, sensibilisalion                                                                          Elat, RTG, radios
Mobilisation dans les Acoles, education sanitaire                                                                              Ministere Education Nationale +
Maitre d'oeuvre delegue
ACTIONS PENDANT ET APRES LE CHANTIER
Mobilisalion des m6dias. informalion, sensibitisation                                                                          Etal, RTG, radios
Mobilisation dans les 6coles, educalion sanitaire                                                                              Ministlres Education. Sante
Creation des structures d'exploilation-gestion                                                                                 Etal-Gouvernorat
Formalion du personnel d'entretien                                                     Parlicipation chantier                  SEEG
Recrulements speciaux                                                                  Recyclage hommes-vidangeurs             SEEG
Suivi-evalualion du fonctionnement                                                     Sujels de Iravaux pour 6collers, etudianis   SEEG, MEE, MEN, MSP
IMPACTS NEGATIFS PENDANT CHANTIER
Circulation camions et engins                     Am6nagement horaires, circuits       Enlrelien routes-pistes                 Mailre d'oeuvre, entreprises
Apporl maleriaux                                  Utilisation voie lerree bauxite                                              Mailre d'oeuire. entreprises
Apport maleriels                                  Arrivee par mer                                                              Mailre d'oeuvre, enlreprises
Accidents du travail                              Respect reglementation               Poste de secours sur chantier           Mailre d'oeuvre, entreprises
IMPACTS NEGATIFS LAGUNAGE FONCTIONNEL
Odeurs f6lides                                    Empecher entr6e de toxiques          By-pass A ia demiere bache de reprise   SEEG
Developpement veg6lalion                          Surveillance, faucardage, ramassage                                          SEEG
Noyade                                            Cl6ture, panneaux interdiction d'entrer                                      SEEG
Destruction des digues                            Surveillance pendant el aprbs chantlier                                      DATU-SEEG
Chute d'aeronef                                   Interdiction survol                  Definition couloics aeriens             Etat-MEE
Boues de decanlalion                              Curages periodiques                  Composiage des boues                    SEEG-Agricullure
o
o0.



Annex 7-1
page 1 of 2
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1. Programme d'Amelioration de l'Environnement Urbain et de l'Assainissement de
Conakry, PADEULAC (Program to improve Conakry environment) (GREA, decembre
1994).
2. Rapport final sur l'epidemie de cholera 1994 (Final Report on cholera epidemic)
(Ministere de la Sante).
3. Etude des couts et des tarifs de l'eau potable: Analyse de la population, de la
production de la demande et des cofits actuels (Castalia. fevrier 1995). (Water Cost,
Water production and Water demand study)
4. Etude des cofits et des tarifs de l'eau potable: Synthese sur les resultats de l'Enquete
des Menages (Castalia Juillet 1995). (Household Survey)
5. Etude des couts et des tarifs de l'eau potable: Niveau moyen des Tarifs et
Recommandations sur la Politique d'Investissement (Castalia novembre 1995).
(Recommendations concerning Investment policy)
6. Troisieme Projet eau - Programme des travaux d'urgence dossiers APS Conakry,
Dalaba Kankan, Nzerekore, Kissidougou, Gueckedou, Faranah, Forecariah (juin 1995).
(feasibility study)
7. Troisieme Projet eau et assainissement- presentation et description du Projet (SONEG,
aofit 1995). (Third Water supply and Sanitation project description)
8. Evaluation des Impacts sur l'environnement du Troisieme projet eau de Guinde
(Tropical SARL, septembre 1995). (Environmental Assessment, water supply).
9. Plan directeur pour l'Alimentation en eau de la Ville de Conakry Rapport provisoire
No. 1  Donnees de base et diagnostic  (Safege/Thorburn Colquhoun, avril 1996).
(Conakry Water Distribution Master Plan, data and diagnostic interim report).
10. Plan Directeur pour l'Alimentation en eau de Conakry Rapport N.2 Orientations et
strategies (Safege/Thorburn Colquhoun, novembre 1996). (Conakry Water Distribution
Master Plan strategies).



Annex 7-1
page 2 of 2
11. Dossier de consultation: Etude du cadre institutionnel et tarifaire en assainissement
(DATU, fevrier 1996). (Sanitation Institutional arrangements and cost-recovery study,
tender documents).
12. Assainissement collectif de la Ville de Conakry- Epuration par Lagunage des
effluents urbains: Analyse Environnementale (Horizons S.A., janvier 1996).
(Environmental Assessment, sanitation component).
13. Composante Hydraulique urbaine - Manuel d'execution du projet (SONEG, octobre,
1996). (Urban water component, Project Implementation procedures).
14. Lettre de Politique sectorielle de 1'eau et de l'assainissement (Gouvemement de
Guinee, aouit, 1996). (Government Water and Sanitation policy Letter).
15. Plan d'action pour l'amelioration du rendement du reseau de distribution d'eau de
Conakry (SEEG/ SONEG, mai 1996). (Action plan to improve Conakry water network
efficiency).
16. Composante Gestion des Ressources en eau: Manuel d'execution du projet (DNH,
fevrier 1997). (Water Resource Management component, Project Implementation
procedures)
17. Programme des 100.000 branchements (SEEG). (100,000 water connections
Program).



MAP SECTION






IBRO 27322
NE         8L      012'                                                                     10'                           GU I N EA         S-
THIRD'.WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
-- --  -          - - --    y-      +~.n -                        tOK                                                     SITUATION OF THE WATER SUPPLY IN THE URBAN CENTERS
/ /o'. . g W. .-^? d'-s S H x~~~~~~~T. 
-12.~ ~~                                                                                                                       To,<1                            1"2--
rrkw'
im                                                             i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nonda oro  /  ~M                 A L
10'                                                                                                                                              0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
OCEA  T       L A  N  T I C                                                                                                      Mo ,ib
0   20  40  60  80  100 120                                         URBANCITIESWITHEXiSTINGWATER
i I   OETR I   I   I  Iow                                        SUPPLY FACILITIES                 ,               isioi0l        /bvXkf r                                        )Tt
14-               ICowZiq URBAN CITIES WITH WATER SUPPLY                                            >   y.* ~7    
/ _ MAURITAiSIA ! _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~FACILITIES UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                            D gL' ,4,DI V O  RE
12 t \ /.\ / i3 ~~~~~~~~~~OTHER URBAN CENTERS TO BE EQUIPPED <J ~     
</~~    ~     ~ -EEA    -,  - A; - -                          BEFORE THE YEAR 2005                               J                          .,          
GATMBLA                              i                                   RorSPAVEDs _.RO/  ADS¢
iU /-   5.       j BURKINA   8                ~~~~~~~~~ROUTES PRATICABLES PAR TOUS TEMPS*/            /         y      \            \            _                         8
)z  GUINEA   t>-  ivt S  ~FASO jCHEMIN i7E FER                                           8         l rJ                            s t         
SIE;+r *tA                                             FLEUVES i/2/\   >
-    4EONE                                  NAT ONAL /     CAPITALE                   y/, r'             k      C   fJ1;xofXr S  r                         Th. bn-d-i.h
E      CAATALE                                                                                                         J--w- -d -y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oomooson n
1-./   _ /9   COTE D'IVOIRE  jo       (i)  PpR~EFECcTTUuRE CAPITALS                                                                                       th,g ..p d.3  - £  >1   /   3    '<'(<i;   otit r utoon sh-on
BERIA  >                                                                                                            -ply, -   th. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,f f~~npy    t,t~pOto
ATL ,; A N T I C   \ERIA  ~.               tt> UMITES DES PREFECTURES                                                                                                              - L | B E R I A   2   a   y  4   t rO Aon   ony ott onthe  I
< } _._ ~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 7r*a~>>sou foy*l^y
OCEAN                                                             FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES   . v ~             ;        >       f       orony-ndone eo n
-_   _  GulfofGuinea                                                                                                                             Z=t    - YoXn d -SPTE MBER  19
.   .  1   _                 . I                           .            t    .               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No.:          14831   GUI
Type:      SAR



