Report No. PID9819
Project Name                     Guinea-Third Water Supply & (@)
Sanitation Project
Region:                          Africa
Sector                           Water & Sanitation
Project ID                       GNPE73567
Borrower                         Republic of Guinea
DATU (Direction Nationale d'Amenagement du
Territoire et de l'Hurbanisme
B.P. 846, Conakry
Contact: M. Amadou Diallo
Tel.: 224 44 47 59
Fax: 224 41 42 11
Date this PID was prepared       March 26, 2001
Appraisal date                   February 2, 2001
Projected Board date             May 31, 2001
Country and Sector Background
1.      The urban population in Guinea has grown from 14 percent in 1960 to 32
percent in 1999, and the population in Conakry, estimated at 1.3 million
inhabitants in 1995, is growing at a rate of 4 percent per year. In spite of
progress made in the past 10 years, only 30 percent of Conakry's inhabitants
have private water connections. Another 40 percent of the population get
water from neighbors and the remaining population depends on public
standpipes, water vendors, and wells. On the sanitation side, even if a large
number of plots are equipped with traditional and vault latrines, these
facilities are under-designed, poorly built and badly maintained. Waste water
and excreta disposal are highly inadequate and pose significant health and
environmental threats to living conditions, particularly in densely populated
areas, such as Kaloum, in Conakry. Activities under the proposed supplemental
are consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy reviewed by the Board in
November 1997, which highlighted the following as essential to poverty
reduction: (i) service delivery improvements; (ii) access to basic public
services; and (iii) effective human resource. The proposed Supplemental
Credit will improve sanitary conditions in Kaloum by increasing access to
appropriate sanitation services. The proposed Supplemental Credit is
therefore coherent with the CAS.
2.      The Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project was approved on May 5,
1997 and became effective on August 4, 1997. The original credit amount was
SDR18.0 million, of which, approximately SDR6.0 million have been disbursed as
of March 23, 2001. So far, about 65 percent of the funds have been committed.
The current status of the project is the following:
Water Resources Management: Parliamentary approval is expected on a National
Water Resource Management Strategy and a new water legislation has been



prepared. It is expected that the process will be completed by June 2001.
Urban Water Supply: The number of water connections and water consumption are
increasing: 64,805 connections were in place by October 31, 2000 against the
estimated 56,000 connections that were to be installed by December 31, 2000.
Works for extending Conakry's water network are being implemented
satisfactorily. To date, 60 percent of all works identified at appraisal have
been completed, compared to 50 percent at appraisal. Rehabilitation of the
water network to reduce water loss and a comprehensive program to improve
water supply reliability is underway.
On the management side of water operations, SEEG and SONEG have signed an
interim, one-year lease contract, in effect since December 31, 2000. During
this period, a 15-year lease contract was being negotiated, which would have
become effective on January 1, 2001. Regrettably, negotiations were
unfruitful, and consequently, Government decided to launch a competitive
tender to recruit a new private operator. After more than 10 years of private
management of water operations in Guinea, the outcome of these negotiations
represents a serious drawback to one of the first established private public
partnership in the sector, and in the region. Delays in paying Government's
water consumption is still one of the main issues in the sector, even if the
Ministry of Finance is now paying the Government's current consumption and has
included payment of its arrears in the 2002 national budget.
Even though there are some problems associated with the management of water
operations, the Government has established a new transitional organization to
take over the responsibilities of the previous operator. The Government is
committed to taking appropriate measures, with regard to the management of the
transition period, in recruiting a new private operator. In the mean time, the
Government is seeking support from the Bank under the ongoing project to (i)
recruit technical assistance to reinforce and manage the interim organization
that has been already set up; and (ii) organize international competitive
bidding to recruit a new private operator. The action plan developed by the
Government is specific on the completion dates of these actions. Recruitment
of technical assistance will be completed in the next three months and
selection of the international private operator should take place within one
year, long before the commissioning of the sewer network and the treatment
plant.
Sanitation: Detailed technical studies and bidding documents for the
construction of the sewer network have been completed. Similar studies for the
treatment plant are about to be completed. Studies on the most appropriate
institutional arrangements for the management of the future sewer network and
treatment plant have been completed, and private sector involvement is
foreseen.
Regarding on-site sanitation systems, the envisaged training for artisans in
latrine construction and pit emptying has been carried out satisfactorily.
Consultants have been selected to prepare strategic sanitation plans and
detailed technical proposals to improve sanitation conditions in five of the
most deprived districts of Conakry. Detailed technical studies for the
construction of two septage treatment facilities have been completed and bids
for works will soon be launched. It is expected that trained septic tank and
latrine emptiers will play an important role in managing septage treatment
facilities and that construction of these facilities will greatly reduce
-2 -



indiscriminate dumping of septage in the urban environment.
Project objectives
3.      The objectives of the supplemental credit are to (i) improve sanitary
conditions in the district of Kaloum (in Conakry) by increasing access to
sewer services; and (ii) reduce pollution of the marine ecosystem from
wastewater discharge and septage dumping. The Supplemental Credit will enable
the construction of a sewer network and a wastewater treatment plant, which
will stop sewage being discharged into the sea.
Project description
4.      Consistent with the original development objective, the supplemental
credit would finance: (i) construction of a sewer network in Kaloum (Conakry)
and installation of connections; (ii) construction of a wastewater treatment
plant; (iii) supervision of works; (iv) community awareness and hygiene
education activities to facilitate connections and better hygiene practices;
and (v) training for staff and institutional capacity to regulate the
management of the sewer network and the treatment plant.
Project financing
5.      Total project cost (based on the engineering design) is estimated to be
US$27.50 million; of which, IDA financing of US$25 million is proposed. The
Government's contribution is estimated to be US$2.50 million equivalent,
representing 9 percent of the total project cost.
Project implementation
6.      The Directorate of Land Development and Urbanism (DATU) is the agency in
charge of the sanitation component under the existing credit. This unit has
performed satisfactorily and will oversee the execution of the supplemental
credit. Staff from DATU will continue to be trained and DATU's institutional
strengthening will also continue. The Supplemental Credit will be executed in
three years and a concomitant extension of the closing date from December 31,
2002 to December 31, 2004 is proposed. Procurement and disbursement
activities will follow procedures outlined in the original Credit. All civil
works contracts totaling US$22.70 million will be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding. Consulting activities related to project
supervision, institutional support and training, and Community awareness
program, totaling US$1.05 million, will be awarded on a Quality-Cost-Based
Selection.
Project sustainability
7.      Sustainability of activities to be financed by the Supplemental Credit
will be achieved by ensuring maximum involvement of various stakeholders at
national, decentralized and local levels during project implementation. A
sanitation surcharge on water bills will finance operation and maintenance of
the facilities. Handing over of operation and maintenance responsibilities to
a private operator (also responsible for water supply operations) is key to
sustainable sanitation services. Funding of sanitation operations and
maintenance, through surcharges on water bills, is a trend in the region and
has been applied in C¶te d'Ivoire, Burkina Faso and Senegal. Implementation
-3 -



of a sanitation surcharge, acceptable to IDA will be a condition of
Effectiveness of the Supplemental Credit. Selection of a competent technical
assistance, under conditions acceptable to IDA, will also be a condition of
Effectiveness.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
8.      Major risks are related to (i) inability to recruit, on time, the
private operator to manage water and sanitation operations; (ii) lack of
commitment from Government to set the sanitation surcharge at a rate that will
generate adequate funds to finance operation and maintenance of the
facilities; (iii) continuous arrears on Government water bills, reducing at
the same time funds for sanitation operations; and (iv) counterpart funding.
Government is committed to the project and improvement of the water network is
underway. Government has agreed to (i) put in place a sanitation surcharge on
the water tariff at a rate satisfactory to finance operation and maintenance
of the facilities; (ii) have the funds generated by the sanitation surcharge
collected by the water operator to finance operation and maintenance of the
facilities. Government is in the process of launching bids for selecting the
private operator and such recent tenders have attracted attention from the
industry. Current track record in terms of counterpart funding is encouraging,
even if security concerns at the southern border of the country are draining
financial resources from the national budget. Deposit of an initial
allocation of GF500 million in the project account will be a condition of
effectiveness.
Environmental aspects
9.      A National Environmental Plan has been prepared, which focuses primarily
on the green environment and natural resource management. Conakry's Strategic
Sanitation Program (PADEULAC) reviewed all aspects related to the improvement
of environmental conditions in the city, including the rehabilitation of
sewers, development and promotion of on-site sanitation, solid waste
management and drainage, training of artisans, community and private sector
participation, and cost recovery. The environmental and social classification
for the Supplemental Credit is B. An environmental impact assessment
(Category B) of the Third Water and Sanitation Project was prepared in 1995.
In addition, an environmental assessment of the sanitation component,
including wastewater treatment facilities, was updated in 1999 and concluded
that its implementation will have a positive environmental impact on living
conditions in Kaloum (Conakry) by (i) limiting creation of wastewater ponds in
streets and wastewater and excreta in plots, (ii) reducing BOD discharge in
the marine ecosystem, and (iii) halting indiscriminate dumping of septage in
the urban environment.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Yao Badjo
-4-



Task Manager
(202)473-3315
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 6, 2001.
- 5 -



