Report No. PIC1639
Project Name                    Guinea-Third Water Supply & (@+) ...
Sanitation Project
Region                          Africa
Sector                          Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                      GNPA1075
Borrower                        Republic of Guinea
Implementing Agencies          SONEG (Societe Nationale des Eaux de
Guinee) - water component
B.P. 150, Conakry, Guinee
Contact: M. Ousmane Aribot, Directeur
General
Tel.: 224 44 43 70
Fax: 224 41 18 22
DATU (Direction Nationale d'Amenagement du
Territoire et de l'Hurbanisme
B.P. 846, Conakry
Contact: M. Bandian Kourouma
Tel.: 224 44 47 59
Fax: 224 41 42 11
DNH (Direction Nationale de l'Hyraulique)
- water resource management component
Ministjre de l'Energie et de
1'Environnement
Contact: M. Diallo, Directeur national de
1'Hydraulique
Conakry, Guinee
Date this PID prepared          February 3, 1997
Appraisal date                  June 29, 1995
Post-Appraisal date             September 21, 1996
Projected Board date           April 15, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Guinea's social indicators are among the lowest in the world:     the
under five mortality rate is 237 per 1,000 live births, 529 have access
to safe water and life expectancy is 44 years. Guinea's urban growth
reached 5.8% per annum in 1992, twice the nation's, and non-agricultural
production accounted for two thirds of GDP. Conakry today houses 84% of
the country's urban population of 1.2 million.    Before 1989, only % had
access to safe water. To improve access to safe water in urban areas,
in 1989 Government restructured the sector and set up a new water
authority, SONEG (Societe Nationale des Eaux de Guinee) to plan and
manage investments and, under a ten-year lease contract, set up SEEG
(Societe d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guinee) a company 51% owned by a
foreign consortium, to operate and maintain the facilities at its own



commercial risk. The setting-up of this innovative private/public
partnership was supported by IDA and became a model world-wide (see
'Success of a Lease Contract - Guinea's Water Supply', WDR, 1994, p.
62). However, in Guinea about 40 percent of the population still
relies on unsafe sources. On the sanitation side, highly inadequate
waste water and excreta disposal compound health and environmental
hazards in the densely populated areas of Conakry: in 1994, dozens of
persons died in a cholera epidemic. Targeted poverty reduction,
improving health and access to safe water and sanitation are central to
IDA's country assistance strategy in Guinea. As pointed out in the
Guinean CAS, 1994, 'Under the rural exodus and the significant flow of
refugees from neighboring countries, Guinea has seen a rapid growth of
basic settlements which lack essential public sanitation equipment and
services'.
Project objectives
2.   The overall development objective of the proposed project is to
alleviate the effects of poverty and improve health by increasing access
to safe and affordable water and sanitation; to encourage private sector
participation by setting the stage for a second-generation affermage
lease contract; and to ensure sustainability by improving water pricing
and cost recovery and developing Guinea's water sector regulatory and
planning capacity. Specific project objectives are:
- To build institutional capacity by strengthening the National Service
of Hydraulics, developing SONEG's activities in urban water distribution
and increase coverage in Conakry by 100 percent and to increase metered
connections by 100 percent.
- To rehabilitate and extend Conakry's sewerage and to contribute to
improvements in environmental quality through construction
rehabilitation extension of the existing network, training to private
local contractors for pit emptying and sewage management.
- To improve Guinea's urban and rural water resource management by
formulating an integrated, multisectoral strategy for the shared use of
water by households, industry, and agriculture that would be coordinated
with future development projects in those sectors.
Project description
3.   The proposed operation has three components:
Urban water supply (US$18.60 million). The rehabilitation and expansion
of the water supply network in Conakry - with about 300 kilometers of
pipelines; the construction of two storage reservoirs for Conakry; and
the installation of about 10,000 household connections. SONEG is to
strengthen its regulatory and policy capacity and to prepare an urban
water strategy. This component also comprises technical assistance to
SONEG to prepare the second generation affermage contract.
Urban sanitation (US$8.40 million). Institutional arrangements
including cost recovery study, and recruitment of a private operator to
run the sewage service. Detailed studies. Promotion of proper
- 2 -



technologies, training and support for artisans to rehabilitate and
construct on-site systems, and support for small contractors for pit
emptying; rehabilitation and maintenance of existing sewerage system in
Conakry; the establishment of institutional arrangements for management
and cost recovery; construction of a sewerage treatment facility;
rehabilitation of a waste stabilization pond for sludge and sewage
treatment.
Water resources management (US$1.00 million). Guinea is being supported
by the Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project and other development
cooperation projects supported by bilateral agencies in its efforts to
proceed with the national water resource management strategy. The
overall objective of the IDA project is to assist the Direction
nationale de l'hydraulique (DNH) to develop a national water management
policy and strategy. This project component will include: (i)
organization of a National Water Resources Management Workshop to as a
basis for an integrated strategy; (ii) technical assistance to revise
the water legislation; (iii) strengthening of human resources, and
institutional capacity in the field of water resources management; and
promotion of regional river basin cooperation. IDA's assistance will
help finance technical assistance and studies required to develop a
national water management policy and strategy.
Project financing
4.   Total project costs are estimated at US$28.00 million. The local
contribution (estimated at US$3.00 million) would come from the
Government (US$1.20 million) and SONEG (US$1.80 million). The proposed
IDA credit of US$ million would be made to the Government. Of this
amount, US$0.90 million would be made available to DNH to implement the
water resources management and water regulation studies components and
US$7.30 million would go to DATU to implement the urban sanitation
component. Under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA,
US$16.80 million equivalent of the IDA credit would be provided by the
Government to SONEG, of which US$8.40 Million equivalent (50 percent)
would be onlent to SONEG at IBRD terms (twenty years including five
years of grace, at annual interest rate of 7 percent), and US$8.40
million equivalent of the IDA credit would be provided to SONEG in the
form of equity. SONEG would bear the foreign exchange risk. Interest
during construction would be capitalized and repaid over the life of the
subsidiary loan.
Project implementation
5.   The implementing agencies would prepare, review, and evaluate bid
documents; award and sign contracts; supervise works; withdraw funds
from the special account. SONEG would implement the urban water supply
component, DNH would implement the water resource management strategy
and DATU would implement the urban sanitation component.
Project sustainability
6.   The overall structure of Guinea's urban water sector--the public-
private partnership (SONEG's regulatory framework and SEEG's private
lease-contract), the project's financial structure (through adequate
-3 -



tariffs and cost recovery), and the sector's long-term policy --will
continue to ensure its ability to supply safe and affordable water to a
larger proportion of the growing urban population. The involvement of
the private sector in the operation of sewerage network and in the
maintenance and of the on-site facilities would help to ensure the
future sustainability of various types of sanitation systems.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7.   Following the Conakry First water supply and sanitation Project
(Credit 870-GUI) whose result remains below expectations. The on-going
Second Water project (Cr. 1985-GUI) approved in 1989, were to strengthen
the planning and management capabilities of SONEG, the agency
responsible for sector development, and to rehabilitate SONEG's
technical, commercial, and financial operations through a lease contract
with a private water management company (SEEG). The reforms supported by
the ongoing Water II Project are being implemented satisfactorily. The
Government has met all the requirements with respect to the proposed
tariff increases. The current tariff level (GNF 880 per cubic meter or
US$0.90 ) compared with the 1989 level (GNF 150 per cubic meter or
US$0.15 ) is higher than the levels expected in the Staff Appraisal
Report of the Second Water Supply Project (GNF 561 per cubic meter or
US$0.76). SONEG's financial management capacity has improved and revenue
generation is adequate. Water rates have been adjusted as agreed. The
subject of counterpart funding, a continuing generic issue in Guinea,
has not been an issue in the water supply sector. However, it will be
addressed on a country-wide basis through the recently approved and
related public expenditure review. In spite of significant progress, the
following areas of improvement remain: the rehabilitation and extension
of the Conakry water network, the necessity for SONEG and SEEG to comply
with all the covenants of the ongoing lease contract, the timely payment
of water bills by the Government and inclusion of specific dated
covenants regarding public water bill arrears. In addition, SEEG and
SONEG have submitted to the Bank an action plan for improving the
efficiency of the Conakry's water network.
Poverty category
8.   This project is expected to be in the program of targeted
interventions.
Environmental aspects
9.   The proposed project has been reviewed and placed in environmental
screening category B. Physical works envisaged under the project should
not generate adverse consequences. The most pressing environmental
issues in Conakry -solid waste and human waste disposal - will improve
the health and quality of life of the population, especially in the low-
income neighborhoods. To address the environmental issues, the Guinean
Government has prepared, with the support of IDA and other donors, a
National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) which focused on: sustainable
management of natural resources, water and sanitation pollution, society
and environment. In addition, an environmental analysis carried out by
SONEG has determined the impact of the proposed project on the
environment. No resettlement plan will be necessary.
- 4 -



Program objective categories
10. The project will support IDA's efforts to better integrate poverty
issues in the design of urban and rural investments. Community
participation would be encouraged at neighborhood levels to elicit the
actual demand of users, particularly women, who are usually the main
water carriers in low-income neighborhoods.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 5 -



