Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N017 GUI
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between the
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established  with funds contributed by certain 
members of International Development Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated May 5, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N017 GUI
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1997, between the REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter dated August 16, 1996, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the Borrower's water supply sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(D)
Parts A and C.2 of the Project will be carried out by the Société 
Nationale des Eaux de Guinée (SONEG) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SONEG a portion of the proceeds 
Page  2
of the Interim Fund Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith concluded between the Administrator and SONEG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively.
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “15 Participating Country” means any country that meets the requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by the Administrator as of the 
date on which the Interim Fund Credit was approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said 
Resolution”; and “Participating Countries” means, collectively, all such countries”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."; (f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the 
term “ Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in 
its own 
capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
Page  3
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of the expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,  such amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires. the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement.
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
December 19, 1996, and January 3, 1997, between the Borrower and the Administrator.
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Administrator and 
SONEG of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules thereto and all agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and SONEG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided to SONEG 
pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
(e)
"SEEG" means Société d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guinée, a corporation 
established and operating pursuant to the commercial laws of the Borrower.
(f)
"DNH" means Direction Nationale de I'Hydraulique, a directorate within 
the Borrower's Ministry responsible for hydraulics.
(g)
"DATU" means Direction de l’Aménagement du Territoire et de l’Urbanisme, 
a directorate within the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for urbanis.
(h)
"Lease Contract" means the contract, dated April 19, 1989, entered into 
between SONEG and SEEG for the operation of SONEG’s urban water supply systems as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental or successor to the Lease Contract.
(i)
"Contrat-Plan" means the contract referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time.
(j)
"Project Implementation Manual" (“PIM”) means the manual describing the 
Project 
reporting and monitoring procedures, plans and other implementation arrangements and 
specifying the performance indicators to be followed in assessing  the progress 
achieved in the execution of the Project.
(k)
"GNF" means the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01.  The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
Page  4
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars three separate special deposit accounts (Special Account A for Parts A and C.2 
of the Project, Special Account B for Part B of the Project and Special Account C for 
Part C.1 of the Project) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts, shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed 
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.  Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2007 
and ending March 15, 2037.  Each installment to and including the installment payable 
on March 15, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
Page  5
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Administrator determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08.  The currency of The United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09.  SONEG is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect 
of Categories (1) (a), and (3) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Parts B and C.1 of the Project with due diligence 
and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate, 
administrative, financial, 
public utility and environmental 
practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such 
Parts of the 
Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall: (A) cause SONEG 
to carry out Parts A and C.2 of the 
Project and to perform, in accordance with 
the provisions of the 
Project Agreement, all the obligations of SONEG therein 
set forth; 
(B) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable SONEG to perform such obligations; and (C) shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts B and C.1 of the Project and cause SONEG to carry out Parts A 
and C.2 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Schedule set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02 (a)  For the purposes of Parts A and C.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SONEG under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Administrator, make the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories (1) (a) and (3) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Page  6
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to SONEG as follows: 
(i)
an amount equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the said allocation 
shall be 
passed on, on a grant basis, as a contribution to SONEG’s 
equity; 
(ii)
the remaining portion of the allocation shall be on-lent as a 
Subsidiary Loan 
under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement at an 
interest rate of seven (7%) per 
annum and shall be repayable over a 
period of twenty (20) years including a 
grace period of five (5) 
years; and
(iii)
the amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by SONEG shall be the 
equivalent 
in Dollars of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund 
Credit Account in respect of the above-mentioned 
Categories, such equivalent 
to be determined as of the date or 
respective dates of repayments.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and of the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and, except 
as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) open and thereafter maintain two separate accounts 
in the name of DNH and DATU (the DNH Project Account and the DATU Project Account) in 
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator; (b) 
deposit into the DNH Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $50,000; and in 
the DATU Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $150,000; (c) thereafter, on 
the first day of each calendar Semester throughout the execution of the Project, 
deposit into the DNH Project Account an amount equivalent to at least $25,000 or such 
other amount as agreed upon with the Administrator, and in the DATU Project Account an 
amount equivalent to at least $120,000 or such other amount as agreed upon with the 
Administrator; and (d) ensure that amounts deposited into the DNH and DATU Project 
Accounts, respectively, shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures 
required for the execution of the Project, in addition to those financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
Section 3.05  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06  The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Parts A and C.2 of the Project shall be carried out by SONEG pursuant to Section 2.03 
(a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 1998, 
furnish to the Administrator for its review, a draft of its investment program for the 
water sector covering the following three-year period;
Page  7
(b)
following a review of each such draft, the Borrower shall adopt a Water 
Investment Program satisfactory to the Administrator for the three-year period in 
question; and
(c)
until the date of adoption of the Water Investment Program, and 
thereafter, during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall not carry out any 
investment in the water sector estimated to cost in excess of the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 which is not included in the Water Investment Program for the period in 
question, without the prior approval of the Administrator.
Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall: (a) conclude with SONEG a Contrat-Plan under 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator specifying, inter alia, SONEG’s projected 
investments program and a water tariffs schedule including a tariff adjustment 
formula; and (b) perform its obligations under the Contrat-Plan promptly and 
diligently in accordance with its terms and, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Contrat-Plan or any 
provision thereof. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B and C.1 of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts B and 
C.1 of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts, audited for each 
fiscal year in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
reports of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account or payment out of a 
Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records, and (iii) 
ensure that such records and accounts be included in 
the annual audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contain 
a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
Page  8
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views with regard to the Borrower's water 
pricing policies and its plans in respect of the overall development of the water 
sector.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take all measures required on its part to 
enable: (a) SONEG to carry out its obligations set forth in Sections 4.03, 4.04 and 
4.05 of the Project Agreement; and (b) SEEG to carry out its operations and discharge 
all of its obligations set forth in the Lease Contract.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association  and the Administrator
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
SONEG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement, the Lease Contract, or the Contrat-Plan;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that SONEG will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower’s Ordonnances No. 045/PRG/88 of October 1, 1988, creating 
SONEG, or No. 028/PRG/89 of April 10, 1989, ratifying the Creation of SEEG or any 
other instrument taken in execution thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
SONEG to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SONEG or for the suspension of 
its operations; and
(f)
the Lease Contract shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
replaced or waived without the Administrator’s prior consent.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01. (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective date; Termination
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01. (c) of the General Conditions: (a)
A Contrat-Plan acceptable to the 
Administrator has been duly concluded and executed between the Borrower and SONEG;
(b)
the Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement have 
been opened and initial amounts have been deposited therein in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (b) of the said section 3.03;
Page  9
(c)
the Borrower has settled its arrears due to SEEG for water consumption in 
the amount of GNF 660,000,000;
(d)
SEEG has settled its arrears due to SONEG for water facilities usage fees 
in the amount of GNF 608,000,000; and
(e)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SONEG.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02. (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SONEG, 
and is legally binding upon SONEG in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and SONEG in accordance with 
its terms;
Section 6.03.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04.  The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of 
this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be 
the earlier. 
Section 6.05.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with such decision and with the Interim Fund Resolution as 
of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
I 1.01. of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Boîte Postale 579
Conakry, Republic of Guinea
Telex:
22399 MIFIGE
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  10
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By  /s/ Mohammed Aly Thiam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund 
established
with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By  /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
      Amount of the Interim
         % of
      Fund Credit Allocated
Expenditures 
Category
  (Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
1.
Civil Works under:
100% of foreign
expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
(a)  Part A of the Project
9,790,000
(b)  Part B of the Project
3,600,000
2.
Equipment and vehicles
  320,000
100% of foreign
for Part C.1 of the Project
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
3.
Consultants' Services
100%
and training
(a)  for Parts A and C.2
1,010,000
      of the Project
(b)  for Part B of the Project
  970,000
(c)  for Part C.1 of the Project
  290,000
Page  11
4.
Refunding of
  580,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
5.
Unallocated
1,440,000
      __________
TOTAL
      18,000,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments under Category 1 (b) unless the 
Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Borrower has concluded 
the contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for civil works 
under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and consultants’ services (firms) 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and consultants’ services 
(individuals) and goods under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) contribute to alleviating poverty and 
improving health standards in the Borrower's territory by increasing access to safe 
water and by rehabilitating existing sanitary facilities and sewerage systems; (b) 
consolidating existing water production and distribution schemes; and (c) 
strengthening SONEG's managerial capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply Network
Rehabilitation and expansion of Conakry's water supply network including inter 
alia:
(i)
construction of about 300 kms of new water pipelines;
(ii)
construction of two water reservoirs to increase water supply for 
the city of 
Conakry; and
(iii)
connection of about 10,000 new households to the water 
distribution network in 
Conakry.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of Urban Sanitary Facilities
1.
Formulation of an institutional scheme to improve the maintenance of the 
municipal sewerage system in Conakry and implementation of the said scheme.
2.
Development of a program aimed at promoting the use of local artisans/small 
contractors in the construction and maintenance of individual sanitary facilities such 
Page  12
as latrines and septic wells.
3.
Construction of a sewerage treatment facility at Conakry harbor.
4.
Rehabilitation of the existing sludge and sewerage treatment facility in 
Conakry.
Part C:
Institutional Development and Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening DNH's capacity to formulate, implement, enforce and evaluate the 
Borrower’s water policies through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Strengthening SONEG's managerial capacity including provision of technical 
advisory services to assist in the preparation and negotiations of a revised lease 
contract.
* * * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works and goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
Preference for Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  13
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix I to 
the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not 
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn only on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods or works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
implement the Project in accordance with the procedures set out in the 
Page  14
PIM and, except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the 
Administrator, may materially or adversely affect the execution of the Project; and
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the PIM and performance indicators 
included in the PIM, satisfactory to the Administrator, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2.
Not later than May 31, 1999, the Borrower and SONEG shall carry out jointly with 
the Administrator, a comprehensive mid-term review to assess the progress achieved in 
the execution of the Project.
(a)
Without any limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the review 
shall cover the implementation and management aspects of the Project, including policy 
reforms, the performance and use of the technical assistance personnel, the role and 
performance of national experts involved in the execution of the Project, the status 
and results of training, reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement and 
procurement procedures, and the level of amounts deposited into the Project Accounts.
(b)
Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the said mid-term review, the 
Borrower and SONEG shall furnish to the Administrator, for its comments, a report in 
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of 
the progress achieved in implementing the various components of the Project, and a 
draft action plan containing proposals for remedying identified deficiencies.
(c) 
The Borrower and SONEG shall, promptly thereafter: (i) prepare and adopt 
an action plan, acceptable to the Administrator, based on the recommendations stemming 
from the aforementioned review; and (ii) thereafter, carry out the said action plan 
for the remaining period of Project implementation.  
3.
The Borrower shall take all measures required on its part to conclude, with a 
qualified private operator, contractual arrangements satisfactory to the 
Administrator, for the operation and management of its sewerage systems in the city of 
Conakry.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special Account A 
Categories (1) (a), and 3 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; in the case of Special Account B, Categories (1) (b) and (3) (b) set 
forth in said table and in the case of Special Account C, Categories (2) and (3) (c) 
set forth in said table;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A to 
$350,000 in the case of Special Account B to $200,000 and in the case of Special 
Account C to $100,000 provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation for:
(i)
Special Account A shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$175,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account 
allocated to Categories (1) (a), (3) (a) 
plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Parts A and C.2 of the Project 
shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
Page  15
(ii)
Special Account B shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account 
allocated to Categories (1) (b) and (3) 
(b) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Part B of the Project shall be 
equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
(iii)
Special Account C shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$50,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account 
allocated to Categories (2) and (3) (c) 
plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Part C.1 of the Project shall be 
equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into such Special 
Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
the replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit 
into Th. respective Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  16
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the Eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project 
related to that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation for that Special Account.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories for 
that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) or 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
