Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3566 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project - Supplemental Financing)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
Dated September 27, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3566 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 2001 between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Administrator have entered into an Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement (Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project) dated May 5, 
1997 (the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement), as amended from time to time, 
for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 
to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
Page  2
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement, the General Conditions and in the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth: (a) the 
term "Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement dated May 5, 1997 
for the Project, between the Borrower and the Association as Administrator of the 
Interim Trust Fund, established with the funds contributed by certain members of the 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of International Development Association, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as 
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; and (b) the term "Project Account" means 
the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement".
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2011, and ending March 15, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2021 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of  
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 3.01, 3.02, 
3.04 and 4.01 of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 
(except the table in paragraph 1 thereof), 2, 3 and 4 thereto are incorporated in the 
Development Credit Agreement, with the following modifications in said Sections and 
Schedules, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(i)
the term "Administrator" shall be read as " Association";
(ii)
the term "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account" 
shall be read as "Credit" and "Credit Account"; and
(iii)
the term "this Agreement" or "the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement" shall be read as "the Development Credit Agreement".
Page  4
(b)
So long as any part of the Interim Fund Credit provided for under the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the 
Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Association:
(i)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Administrator 
pursuant to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be 
taken or given in the name of and on behalf of both the 
Administrator and the Association; and
(ii)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of any such Sections of 
the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto 
shall be deemed to be furnished to the Administrator and the Bank.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 a) of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
open an account in Guinean Francs in a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Administrator (the Project Account) and thereafter maintain 
said Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Administrator until completion of the Project;
(ii)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to 
$130,000 (the Initial Deposit) and thereafter quarterly replenish 
the Project Account by depositing therein an amount equivalent to 
$237,000, no later than every March 30, June 30, September 30 and 
December 30 until completion of the Project, to finance the 
Recipient’s contribution for expenditures under the Project other 
than 
those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable 
the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 3.04. Part B of Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Page  5
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
"4.
Rehabilitation of the existing sludge and sewerage treatment facility in 
Conakry and construction of a new sewerage system and waste water treatment 
plant."
Section 3.05. Schedule 4 of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by adding a new paragraph 4 which shall read:
"4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
no later than August 31, 2001, appointed an expert, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Administrator, to assist in 
the preparation of bidding documents needed for the contracting of a new 
private operator to manage, on its behalf, urban water supply and sanitation 
services in its territory; 
(b)
no later than November 30, 2001, launch the competitive bidding 
process for contracting the private operator referred to in the preceding 
subparagraph;
(c)
no later than July 31, 2002, taken all necessary steps for the 
conclusion of a contract with a private operator to manage its water and 
sanitation services referred to in the preceding subparagraph, including 
completion of the bidding process for the selection of such private operator, 
identification of a successful bidder and carrying out of good faith 
negotiations with such bidder; and
(d)
no later than December 31, 2002, included a sanitation surcharge 
on the water tariff at a rate satisfactory to the Administrator to finance 
operation and maintenance of its water supply and sanitation facilities."
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely the events set out in Section 5.01 
of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, provided, however that the term 
"Administrator" wherever it appears in such Section shall be read as "Association".
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely the event set out in Section 5.02 of 
the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, provided, however, that the term 
"Administrator" wherever it appears in such Section shall be read as "Association".
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a detailed action plan, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, setting forth the timetable and specific actions needed for the 
selection and appointment of a new private operator which shall be responsible for the 
management of water supply and sanitation services in its territory;
(b)
the Borrower has, pending the selection and appointment of a new private 
operator which shall be responsible for the management of water supply and sanitation 
services in its territory, adopted interim arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, for the management of such water supply and sanitation services, 
including the recruitment of technical staff with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Administrator to assist in the carrying out of such activities; 
and
(c)
the Borrower has open a Project account and deposited therein the Initial 
Amount referred to in Section 3.02 (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  6
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. 579
Conakry, Republic of Guinea
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Mohamed Aly Thiam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Page  7
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under
   18,100,000 100% of foreign
Part B of the
expenditures and
Project
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
    1,700,000 100%
services and'
training under
Part B of the
Project
(3)
Operating Costs
200,000
75%
under Part B of
the Project
TOTAL
   20,000,000
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)  set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $1,500,000, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  8
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
