Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER NO17 GUI
Project Agreement
(Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds contributed 
by certain members of International Development Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors 
of the International Development Association
and 
the SOCIÉTÉ NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINÉE
Dated May 5, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER NO17 GUI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1997, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, and the SOCIÉTÉ 
NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINÉE (SONEG).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between the REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the 
Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower an Interim Fund Credit in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 18,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that SONEG agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Administrator as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SONEG, a portion of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit provided for 
under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SONEG on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS SONEG, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering into the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  (a) SONEG declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C.2 of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, public utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator and SONEG shall otherwise agree, SONEG shall carry out 
Parts A and C.2 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A and C.2 of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03.  (a) SONEG shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A and C.2 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SONEG shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the 
Administrator and SONEG, a plan 
for the future operation of Parts A and C.2 of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with SONEG 
and the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04.  SONEG shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, SONEG shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05.  (a) SONEG shall, at the request of the Administrator, exchange 
views with the Administrator with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
SONEG shall promptly inform the Administrator of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by SONEG 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
Section 2.06.  SONEG shall: (a) not later than October 31 of each year, starting 
with the year 1997, submit to the Administrator for its review and comments: (i) its 
Page  3
proposed operating and capital expenditures budgets for the following year; (ii) its 
financial forecasts for the following five years; and (iii) a draft revised version of 
the Contrat-Plan for the following three years; and (b) promptly finalize the said 
draft documents taking into account the comments and recommendations made by the 
Administrator.
Section 2.07. SONEG shall participate in the mid-term review referred to in 
Schedule 4 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and shall thereafter 
implement the recommendations resulting therefrom with respect to Parts A and C.2 of 
the Project.
Section 2.08.  SONEG shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Contrat-Plan and the Lease Contract. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, SONEG shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Contrat-Plan or the Lease Contract.
Section 2.09.  SONEG shall: (a) by December 31, 1997, submit to the 
Administrator for its review and comments, a draft paper based on lessons learned from 
the ongoing implementation of the Lease Contract and formulating the measures to be 
taken to improve the performance of the Borrower’s water sector;
(b)
not later than July 31, 1998, submit a new draft Lease Contract to the 
Administrator for its review and comments; and
(c)
not later than March 31, 1999, submit to the Administrator a new Lease 
Contract satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 2.10. SONEG shall submit to the Administrator  not later than June 30 of 
each year: (a) SEEG’s financial statements audited in accordance with the provisions 
of the Lease Contract; and (b) all relevant data showing the quantity of water sold by 
SEEG to all private and public consumers in accordance with the terms of the Lease 
Contract. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONEG
Section 3.01.  SONEG shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and water utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.  SONEG shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and water utility practices.
Section 3.03.  SONEG shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) SONEG shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SONEG shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) audited for each 
fiscal year in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  4
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  SONEG shall not, until Part A of the Project shall have been 
completed, make any new investment estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$5,000,000 each, unless such investment shall, in the opinion of the Administrator, be 
technically, financially and economically viable based on detailed financing plans and 
forecasts submitted to the Administrator.
Section 4.03.  (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, SONEG 
shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenses of 
SONEG shows that the estimated net revenues of SONEG for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least equal to the estimated debt service 
requirements of SONEG in such year on all debt of SONEG including the debt to be 
incurred, but excluding the debt borne by the Borrower pursuant to the Contract-Plan.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SONEG by its terms more 
than one 
year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment 
on the date of such contract, or 
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provisions 
for depreciation, non-cash operating 
charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of such revenues. 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges 
on, debt. 
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by SONEG 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Administrator and SONEG accept as 
reasonable and as to which the 
Administrator has notified SONEG 
of its acceptability, provided that no event 
has occurred since such 
notification which may have, or may reasonably be 
expected in 
the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial or 
future 
operating results of SONEG. 
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
Page  5
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, available for the 
purposes of servicing such 
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 4.04.  SONEG shall carry out each year a pro forma revaluation of the 
net value of its fixed assets, to such extent as shall be necessary to reflect 
adequately, at the time of each such revaluation, the current value thereof in 
accordance with a sound and consistently applied method of valuation acceptable to the 
Administrator.
Section 4.05.  (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, SONEG 
shall earn, for its 1998 and 1999 fiscal years, an annual return of not less than 4% 
of the average current net value of SONEG's fixed assets in operation, and for each of 
its fiscal years thereafter an annual return of not less than 5% of said value.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, SONEG shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by SONEG and satisfactory to the Administrator, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Administrator the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SONEG would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SONEG's fiscal years covered by such review, SONEG shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
the annual return shall be calculated by dividing SONEG's net 
income for the 
fiscal year in question by one half of the sum of the 
current net value of 
fixed assets in operation at the 
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year; 
(ii)
the term "net income" means  total revenues less total operating 
expenses; 
(iii)
the term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related 
to operations plus contributions to debt service from 
the national budget; 
(iv)
the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation in 
accordance with accounting methods 
generally accepted in water 
supply, or on any other basis acceptable to the 
Administrator, of 
the average current gross value of SONEG's fixed assets in 
operation, 
but excluding interest and other charges on debt; 
(v)
the average current gross value of SONEG's fixed assets in 
operation shall be 
calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value 
of SONEG's fixed assets 
in operation at the beginning and at the end 
of the fiscal year, as valued 
from time to time in accordance 
with the methods of valuation referred to in 
Section 4.05 of this 
Agreement; and
(vi)
the term "current net value of SONEG's fixed assets in operation" 
means the 
gross value of SONEG's fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time 
to time in accordance with the 
methods of valuation referred to in 
Section 4.05 of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  6
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and 
of SONEG thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty five (25) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Administrator shall promptly notify SONEG of this event.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEXES
248423 (NCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SONEG:
Société Nationale des Eaux de Guinée
BP 150
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Cable address:
Telex:
(0995) 23265 GESONEG
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SONEG, or by 
SONEG on behalf of the Borrower under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by SONEG’s Director General or such other person or persons 
as SONEG shall designate in writing, and SONEG shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the 
International Development Association
By  /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIÉTÉ NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINÉE
By  /s/ Mohammed Aly Thiam
Authorized Representative
