Document of
The World Bank  wr J
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2758-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
June 4, 1980
This document ba a resticted distribution nd may be used by reciplents only In the perfor_ace of
their official dutis. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979            March 1980
Currency Unit      =    Yemeni Dinars (YD)          YD
US$1     =    YD 0.345                     0.345
YD1      =    US$2.90                      2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31 (1975)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1976)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton of crude oil of
0.85 specific gravity                      6
crude oil                  =     41.5 x 10  BTU
1 kilometer (km)              =     0.6 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)      =     0.4 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)            =     6.3 barrels (bbl)
1 barrel                      =    42.0 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGIP  -     Aziende Generale Italiana dei Petroli
CGG   -     Compagnie Generale Geophysique
PED   -     Petroleum Exploration Department
PMB   -     Petroleum and Minerals Board



FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount:              US$9.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:        The project would support the Government's efforts to
intensify the search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and
assist in improving its planning of the petroleum sub-
sector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration Depart-
ment's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geo-
physical surveys and interpret their results. It includes
(a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide a loose grid of
key recontaissance seismic profiles over a large portion
of the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural
gas in PDRY; and (b) technical assistance to PED for
project management services, data evaluation to promote
exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training of
PED's staff. The primary benefit would be to uncover
prospects sufficiently attractive to oil companies to
undertake exploration in PDRY.
Risks:               The principal risk is that prospects attractive to oil
companies may not be identified. This risk will be
minimized by the key reconnaissance line approach to be
adopted under the project which will provide maximum
geographic coverage. An associated risk is that the type
of quality data needed to attract foreign oil companies
may not be acquired. Provisions have, however, been made
in the project to minimize this risk.
Estimated Cost: 1/                                              US$ Thousand
Local   Foreign   Total
Seismic Crew (expatriate)
Mobilization                                                -        500      500
Crew (15 months)                                           700    5,000    5,700
Processing                                                  _        250      250
Total Crew                                                 700    5,750    6,450
Equipment Purchases                                         50    1,000    1,050
Technical Assistance 2/                                    100    1,150    1,250
Promotion Services                                          50       200      250
Base Cost Sub-Total                                        900    8,100    9,000
Price Contingency                                          100      900    1,000
Total Project Cost                                       1,000    9,000   10,000
1/   Not including duties and taxes from which t'he project is exempt.
2/   Including US$100,000 for repayment of the a:lvance from the Project
Preparation Facility.
This document has r mtricted distribution and ff.vy be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherw ii toe disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Financing Plan:                                              US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
Government                          1.0        --       1.0
IDA                                  --       9.0       9.0
1.0      9.0      10.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                        IDA FY                 1981      1982      1983
------US$ Thousand----
Annual                                     6,000      2,800      200
Cumulative                                 6,000      8,800   9,000
Rate of Return:       Not Applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              None.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$9.0 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), to help finance a petroleum
exploration promotion project.
PART I - ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission to review the second Five-Year Plan 2/ visited
PDRY in March-April 1979 and its report entitled "People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen: Special Economic Report--The Second Five-Year Plan (1979-83)"
(2683-YDR), dated January 25, 1980, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 6, 1980. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.        Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a socialist
society. The principal objectives of the Government have been (a) to satisfy
the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter,
employment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the produc-
tion capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries, industry,
construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e.,
transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education standards,
emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase exports of
domestic products.
4.        In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily
on a strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms
were initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
1/   Part I of this report is identical to the previous President's Report
for the Greater Aden Water Supply project (P-2816-YDR), scheduled for
consideration by the Executive Directors on June 5, 1980.
2/   This plan has recently been revised (see paras. 6 and 7).



tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and production cooperatives--were created to
facilitate the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
Fishing and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two
of the remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refin'-y (British
Petroleum) and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--
were transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
5.        Private enterprises have been allowed to exist mainly in trade,
manufacturing and construction. But the private sector was given a subsidiary
role and private entrepreneurs are expected to follow the lead of the public
sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is encouraged in
some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures
are now active. Foreign private investors have been encouraged to participate
in oil exploration.
6.        Increasingly comprehensive economic and social planning is being
used as the principal tool to implement PDRY's development objectives. In
1971 the Government launched its first development program, covering the
three-year period of 1971/72-1973/74. The program focussed largely on a
number of public sector projects which were to be carried out with the help of
foreign capital and technical assistance. It was followed by a more detailed
Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978), which in addition to the investment program,
introduced specific targets for the major economic and social sectors. Work
on the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) originally envisaged to cover the 1979-83
period had started in early 1979. However following a recommendation by the
Council on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their
five-year economic plans, the SFYP will now cover the 1981-85 period with 1979
and 1980 serving as transitional years. Thus, the revised SFYP is expected to
be finalized and approved by the end of 1980. It CorLsists of a macro-economic
framework, sector analyses and investment objectives. In addition to infra-
structure and productive sectors the Plan covers such areas as foreign and
domestic trade, manpower development, social sectors, and production planning.
While still relying on technical assistance from foreign experts the Government
has substantially strengthened its own planning capability. Plan preparation
and execution has thus become increasingly the responsibility of Yemeni staff
in the Ministry of Planning, in technical ministries, and in public enterprises
and cooperatives.
7.        The revised second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall
development objectives outlined in paragraph 3 above. It proposes a total
investment of $1,200 million (in 1977 prices) for 1981-85 of which 38 percent
is allocated for infrastructure (including electric power), 24 percent for
agriculture and fishing, 14 percent for industry including oil and mineral
exploration, 5 percent for education, 9 percent for housing, and 10 percent
for other services. The Plan assumes that about $948 million (79 percent)
will be financed through foreign capital, and the remaining $252 million from
domestic resources.
8.        In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of constraints,
the most important ones being limited natural resources, insufficient tech-
nical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh climate



severely limits the area available for cultivation, although substantial
increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher yields, and
by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The narrow domestic
market and few known raw materials limit the scope for industrial development.
These constraints are compounded by the rugged topography which creates severe
difficulties for internal transportation resulting in increased domestic
transport cost.
9.        Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
The Government has tried to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral
technical assistance, including UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY.
In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly
technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad,
and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY the country
is now generating a growing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower.
10.       Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government. The reasons for this can be
traced largely to inadequate incentive systems, weak management, shortage
of trained manpower, lack of spare parts, and inadequate maintenance. The
revised Plan recognizes these constraints and gives priority to measures aimed
at increasing productivity. In this context, the Government has recently been
engaged in the review of the structure of domestic prices aiming at selective
price increases as incentives for agricultural producers and fishermen.
Following this, farm gate prices of some agricultural products were raised by
up to 50 percent in June 1979 and producer and consumer prices for fish were
increased in September 1979, and the consumer prices again in March, 1980.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $4 million in 1970 to $214 million in 1979. The allocation of
investment funds appears to have been well chosen: half of all public sector
investments during the first Five-Year Plan (1974/75-78) went to the commodity
producing sectors with agriculture and fishing receiving 35 percent, and
industry and mineral exploration 15 percent. A large share (32 percent) was
invested in infrastructure (including electric power) while the remaining 18
percent was spent for education and other social services. The sharp increase
in public investment was accompanied by a major expansion of current government
spending on education, health and other public services.
12.       High levels of investment and other public spending have accelerated
the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices grew at an annual average
rate of about 7 percent during 1973-78, compared with only 2 percent per annum
during 1970-73. The major growth sectors were fishing, industry, construction,
trade, transport and government services. Agricultural output increased only
slowly, reflecting the productivity problems mentioned above. More recently



- 4 -
industrial production has picked up mainly as a result of increased oil
refining. GNP rose at a faster rate than GDP (12 percent p.a. during 1973-78)
due to a rapid increase in workers' remittances.
13.       Su'stantial progress has been made in achieving a balanced income
distribution, and in the development of social services. State ownership of
production facilities and egalitarian wage/salary structures have reduced
income differentials in the growing public sector. Supplies of basic food-
stuffs and other essential consumer goods are readily available to the urban
population. School enrollment has risen sharply, and health services have
been significantly improved. However, large differences still persist in the
standard of living between urban and rural areas. Rural incomes are estimated
to be only about one-third of average urban incomes, although in some regions
rural incomes are supplemented by remittances from family members working
abroad. The basic reasons for rural poverty appear to be low productivity of
the agricultural and fisheries sectors and possibly adverse terms of trade
between these sectors and the rest of the economy.  Solutions to the problem
can therefore only be found in tackling these basic issues.
14.       To sustain the massive increase in public spending for development
(para. 11), the Government had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial
resources. With a low per capita income, there were severe limitations on
raising domestic resources. The principal instrument used in mobilizing
domestic funds was taxation and until recently containment of Government
employee salaries. However, these were increased in September 1979. New taxes
have been introduced and tax collection improved. As a result, total govern-
ment receipts rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in 1969/70 to 21 percent
in 1978. Government revenue continued to increase in 1979, especially self-
financing by public enterprises from their retained profits which increased
from $4.9 million in 1978 to $12.5 million in 1979.
15.       To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries, and
more recently by Arab nations. In addition, PDRY received support from
regional and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The
exact amount of all foreign resources put at the disposal of the country is
not known since some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in the
budget or in the balance of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable
aid, it is estimated that aggregate disbursements including transfers rose
from an average level of some $8 million per annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to
about $131 million in 1978, and is estimated to have further increased to
about $160 million in 1979.
16.       The rapid expansion of the public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. The value
of imports has more than quadrupled since the beginning of the decade, from
an average of $89 million per annum during 1970/71 to an estimated $387 mil-
lion in 1978. Besides the devaluation of the US dollar, this mainly reflects



price increases for foodstuffs and petroleum products and the growing capital
goods imports necessitated by the country's ambitious development program.
The growth in import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's foreign exchange
budget, all the more so as the country exports relatively little and thus bene-
fits only marginally from price rises in the world markets.
17.       Indigenous exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover
only a minor share of the import bill. In 1978, they were estimated to be
about $18 million or some 5 percent of commodity imports. Much more important
than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by
workers' remittances. The latter rose rapidly since the mid-1970's, increas-
ing from $56 million in 1975 to $258 million in 1978 and an estimated $320
million in 1979. This has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus
countries, to some additional emigration, and to new incentives which liberal-
ized "own exchange" imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings,
and offered higher interest rates to non-resident bank depositors.
Foreign Aid and External Debt
18.       Fast growing exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from
foreign aid (para. 15) have enabled PDRY in recent years to cover its import
requirements and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The latter rose from $55
million at end 1975 to $187 million at end 1978, equivalent to almost half of
the imports of that year.
19.       The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1979
amounted to $915 million, of which $372 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $665 million or 73 percent of total commitments with the
USSR providing the bulk ($369 million), followed by China ($142 million),
other Eastern European countries ($104 million), Arab countries ($48 million)
and by Denmark ($2 million). Multilateral aid amounted to $250 million
including $175 million from Arab Funds, and $63 millon from IDA. The average.
terms of all loans are highly concessionary giving a grant element of about 58
percent. In addition, PDRY has received about $180 million (until the end of
1979) in grant assistance, mostly from Arab countries.
20.       The soft terms of PDRY's external debt has resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1979 were $5 mil-
lion or 1.4 percent of total exchange earnings from exports of goods and
services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt service
obligations are projected to increase steadily in future years, which will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view
of the above and the limited resources of the country, the Bank's assistance
to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reason, local
cost financing by IDA is justified.



- 6 -
21.       In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government nation-
alized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law provided
for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing interest of
2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of all the nation-
alized companies were to be used for servicing these bonds.  Tn response, some
of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial Yemeni deposits
which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the promulgation of Law
No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of accountants of international
repute to audit the accounts of all the nationalized companies and evaluate
their assets. The audit report was submitted to the Government in September
1971. Settlements were reached soon after with three of the foreign banks
involved. Agreements were finalized with three additional banks in 1977, with
the oil companies in late 1977, early 1978, and in 1979 and with a development
finance company in mid-1978. Contacts with other former owners have been
maintained with a view to reaching mutually acceptable settlements. Dialogue
with debtors has, however, been very slow since they have only recently
responded to the Government's efforts to settle claims. The Government
professes its desire to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with all
claimant companies, and has expressed its willingness to consider such settle-
ment outside the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.       To date, the Association has had 12 operations 2/ in PDRY, for a
total IDA commitment of $63.2 million. PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA
in 1970, but is not a member of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971
and, after a hiatus of about two years (February 1976 to February 1978)
because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for this period had been committed more
rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in 1978. Of the present total IDA
commitment, about $20.3 million was for assistance in building up physical
infrastructure and strengthening institutions in the transportation sector,
through the provision of three highway credits and a credit for the reha-
bilitation and modernization of the Aden port. One of the highway projects
was successfully completed in December 1975. An engineering credit was
refinanced under the credit for the Second highways (Mukalla-Seiyun road)
project now under way. Agriculture (including fisheries) employs about 43
percent of PDRY's labor force and contributed about 20 percent to the coun-
try's GDP in 1977. Although the cultivable area is severely limited by
difficult terrain and harsh climatic conditions, the potential for increas-
ing agricultural output through use of improved inputs and modern practices
is considerable. IDA has assisted in the development of agriculture and
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from the previous
President's Report for the Greater Aden Water Supply project (P-2816-
YDR), scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors on
June 5, 1980.
2/   In addition a $13.2 million credit for a Greater Aden Water Supply
project is scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors on
June 5, 1980.



- 7 -
fisheries through the provision of five credits amounting to $27.3 million.
The first fisheries project was beset by cost overruns and as a result a
supplementary credit was approved in FY1975 to provide the additional financ-
ing needs. A Second fisheries development project for $10.0 million was
approved in FY1979 which will seek to improve the economic well being of the
Sixth Governorate, one of the poorest and remotest regions in PDRY. Two
agricultural credits approved in FY1976 and FY1978 respectively focus pri-
marily on increasing yield through the introduction of modern inputs and
agricultural practices in Wadi Hadramout and Wadi Tuban. A credit of $5.0
million was approved in FY1978 to help finance a power project in Wadi
Hadramout which, upon completion, will provide an impetus to agricultural
development by providing electricity to drive the ground water irrigation
pumps. An IDA credit of $5.4 million approved in FY1975 for an education
project will assist in alleviating the problems of inadequate facilities and
shortage of suitably qualified teachers. Another credit of $4.0 million
approved in FY1979 for a second education project will concentrate on training
urgently needed skilled and semi-skilled workers in the agricultural, indus-
trial and commercial sectors. An engineering credit of $1.2 million was
approved in FY1978 to finance the preparation of a water supply master plan
and feasibility studies for the rehabilitation and expansion of the water
supply systems in the two largest cities of Aden and Mukalla. 1/ Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA Credits as of April 30, 1980, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The Association's lending program in PDRY aims mainly at supporting
the Government's long-range economic objective of broadening the base of a
service-oriented economy centered around Aden, by developing the productive
capacity of the other sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the
outlying regions. Efforts have been directed towards projects in the trans-
port sector, which would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of
PDRY, but, more importantly, link production areas with the main markets.
Other sectors where the Association has assisted and will continue to assist,
are in the field of agriculture, including the key fisheries subsector and
education. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be
an integral feature in the Association's projects in PDRY.
24.       Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  A
follow-up agricultural project in Wadi Hadramout is expected to result from
an ongoing study by consultants financed under the first Wadi Hadramout
project. A third Highway project prepared with funds provided under the
second Highway project has been appraised. A study by consultants, financed
through bilateral assistance, which could possibly lead to an IDA financed
agricultural project in Wadi Beihan, has been completed and project prepara-
tion work started. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects are
expected to be substantially higher than the funds the Association can provide
1/   This has resulted in a Greater Aden Water Supply project, for which a
$13.2 million IDA credit is scheduled for consideration by the Executive
Directors on June 5, 1980.



- 8 -
to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other development
agencies to join the Association in the financing of suitable projects. The
Association has, between FY1971 and FY1979, successfully played a catalytic
role through its projects in securing about $59 million of co-financing from
other aid dc-ors (UNDP $0.7 million; Kuwait Fund $15.3 million; Arab Fund
$34.2 million; Islamic Development Bank $5.5 million and EEC $3 million),
thus assisting in increasing the inflow of development aid to the country. 1/
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
25.       Petroleum accounts for 95 percent of the total energy consumption in
PDRY, all of which is imported since there is no domestic production. Although
the volume of oil imports remained constant from 1973 to 1978 at 500,000 tons,
reflecting in part increased conservation efforts, the increasing price of oil
has had major repercussions on PDRY's balance of payments. The oil import
bill rose from US$10 million in 1973 to an estimated US$110 million in
1978, equivalent to approximately 400 percent of its export earnings. The
estimated cost of petroleum imports is projected to rise from US$200 million
in 1980 to US$400 million in 1985 in 1980 prices. Further increases in price
will, therefore, exacerbate the oil import bill causing balance of payments
difficulties and affecting economic growth. The scope for replacing future
petroleum consumption by alternative energy supplies is limited since there
are no known commercial sources of energy. PDRY's dependence on imported oil
will, therefore, not diminish unless indigenous crude oil/gas supplies are
discovered and developed through intensive exploration efforts in the near
future.
26.       Energy Resources.  PDRY at present has no known commercial energy
resources in the form of hydropower or coal, for development. It is believed
that it has significant unexplored petroleum potential. In addition, geo-
logical surveys to determine its unexplored mineral resource potential
including coal are planned. Non-commercial renewable energy is not yet
utilized but there is potential for solar, wind and wave power in the longer
run.
27.        Sector Organization.  The central authority for carrying out
petroleum and mineral related activities in PDRY is the Petroleum and Minerals
Board (PMB) which has a chairman and 12 members on its Board of Directors.
The chairman is appointed by the President of the Republic and is also the
Minister of Industry. The Board's membership consists of the directors of the
various organizations of PMB (para. 28) and representatives of trade unions
and the ruling party. PMB is responsible for all policy matters and for the
overall organization and administration of the sector. Policies recommended
by PMB have to be approved by the Cabinet for implementation.
1/   In addition $16.0 million is to be obtained for the Second Fisheries
Development project (Cr. 932-YDR).



28.       There are five state organizations under PMB which control different
phases of petroleum and mineral activity in PDRY. These are: (i) Geological
Survey and Minerals Exploration Department--responsible for exploration of
solid minerals; (ii) Petroleum Exploration Department (PED)--responsible for
all petroleum exploration related activities; (iii) Aden Refining Company
(ARC) formed in May 1977 to manage the former British Petroleum refinery
handed over to the Government of PDRY in 1977; (iv) Yemen National Oil Company
(YNOC)--engaged in the internal marketing and distribution of petroleum
products; and (v) Yemen Kuwait Terminal Company (YKTC), a joint venture
between YNOC (51 percent) and Kuwait (49 percent) to supply bunker fuel. The
Director of each of the five organizations is appointed by the Government and
reports to the chairman of PMB. Three of the organizations, YNOC, YKTC, and
ARC, have a board of directors of their own; the other two have advisory
committees to assist their Directors.
Petroleum Exploration Department (PED)
29.       PED, created in 1976, is entrusted with the exploration of oil
and gas in PDRY on its own or in association with foreign companies through
production sharing or joint venture agreements. PED's exploration activities
are funded from the central budget allocations.
30.       PED has a professional staff of about 100, including geologists,
geophysicists, engineers and other administrative personnel. Its seismic crew
includes personnel with adequate qualifications to conduct its activities but
are relatively inexperienced in the more advanced techniques of seismic
survey, logistics and maintenance of equipment. The crew is in need of modern
equipment and technical and managerial assistance to obtain a high standard of
quality data and output.
Energy Consumption, Supply and Prices
31.       Total commercial energy consumption increased from about 430,000
tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to almost 500,000 tons in 1973, reflecting an
average annual growth rate of 4.5 percent. Since the increases in oil prices
in 1973, no growth in commercial energy consumption occurred until 1978. In
1979, energy consumption rose by 7 percent over 1978 to reach 535,000 tons.
The annual growth rate in energy consumption over the next decade is pro-
jected to average 7 percent, given the second five-year plan targets for
economic growth.
32.       The domestic Aden Refinery supplies 25 percent of the internal oil
consumption and the rest is imported in the form of products. Of the total
petroleum consumption of 535,000 tons in 1979, the transportation sector
accounted for about 40 percent, followed by electric power generation (28
percent), manufacturing industries (20 percent), agriculture, fisheries, and
others (12 percent).
33.       Energy prices are fixed by the Government and have generally
reflected import costs. However, the 1979 increases in petroleum import
price have not been completely reflected in domestic prices of petroleum
products particularly LPG and kerosene, and fuel oil used by the domestic and



- 10 -
the industrial sectors, respectively. The Government's policy aims to equate
domestic prices to imported cost and towards this objective prices of all
petroleum products have been increased. Further increases are planned for
during the first half of 1980.
Petroleum Potential and Prospects
Description of Geology
34.       Some 235,000 sq. km of PDRY territory is underlain by sedimentary
basins which could contain commercial accumulations of oil and gas. Of this
about 200,000 sq. km is located onshore and 35,000 sq. km offshore in four
distinct basins. Three of these basins are primarily onshore. The Rub-al-
Khali, which is the southwestern lobe of the greater Persian Gulf Basin in the
northeast; the Shabwa Depression, a saucer-shaped salt dome basin in the west;
and the Inter Hadramaut in the southeast, a fault bounded basin similar to the
coastal basins in Oman. Only the latter has an offshore extension. The
Sahyut basin is primarily offshore beneath the continental shelf in the south
central part of the country (see Map).
35.       Potential reservoirs may be found in Cretaceous and Jurassic lime-
stones in most of the basins identified in PDRY. These are expected to be
similar to, although less well developed than the producing zones in Saudi
Arabia and Oman. The Shabwa Depression appears to be unique. The Cretaceous
unit is not present and the Jurassic section is at or near the surface. How-
ever, the Permian Khuff sandstone, also indicated to be productive in Saudi
Arabia, may be present in this area. Surface oil shows are reported by PED
in the Shabwa Depression. Oil shows have also been reported in the Amoco
Tarfayt well No. 1 which recovered a few barrels of oil on a test of a porous
Cretaceous limestone. This exploratory well was located on the north flank
of the Inter Hadramaut basin. Source rocks are believed to be the shales and
fine grained carbonates interbedded with the potential reservoir beds. How-
ever, no confirming geochemical analysis of the probable source rocks is
now known to exist. Although commercially inconclusive the above evidence
suggests that conditions may be favorable for the generation and entrapment
of oil and/or gas.
Past Activities
36.       Prior to independence in 1967, very little exploration took place
in PDRY. Shortly after World War II, surface geologic mapping was conducted
by the Iraq Petroleum Company. Subsequently, this group conducted a surface
gravity survey in the northeastern part of the country, principally in the
Rub-al-Khali basin. In the early 1960s Amoco obtained a large onshore con-
cession and conducted an aeromagnetic survey, as well as a limited seismic
survey. This was followed by the drilling of two exploratory wells and two
stratigraphic tests (deep core holes) on the North Hadramaut Arch one of which
encountered the oil shows mentioned (para. 35).
37.       Following independence PDRY in association with SONATRACH (Algerian
National Oil Company) resumed onshore exploration. Several thousand kilo-
meters of seismic lines were surveyed. These were of generally poor to



- 11 -
non-usable quality. However, two exploratory wells were drilled based on this
information; one in association with SONATRACH and the other with assistance
from Technoexport (USSR). Both wells were unsuccessful.
38.       Upon its establishment PED recognized that better quality seismic
information was a prerequisite to any meaningful exploration program. It
therefore proceeded to purchase its own seismic equipment and contracted
Compagnie Generale de Geophysique (CGG) of France to. provide supervision and
training services for its staff. This arrangement was terminated after a
year.  CGG is presently retained for the processing of PED seismic data.  The
seismic data acquired by PED thus far appears to be of sufficiently good
quality to identify overall structural configurations but insufficient for
sophisticated analysis of stratigraphic variations, and subtleties of structur-
ing. This may be due to the nature of the terrain covered and more likely to
the somewhat outdated equipment and procedures used. Based on the results
of its own seismic survey, PED commenced an exploratory well, the Hathout No.
1, on a structure on the south flank of the Rub-al-Khali basin in the North
Sanau block in 1977. A large number of problems, mainly mechanical and
logistic in nature, have been encountered in the drilling of this well and the
objective depth was never reached. Furthermore, additional seismic data
obtained subsequently suggest that the well may have been located off the
crest of the structure. PED has, therefore, decided to move to a higher
structural location. PED now plans to drill the second well with the assis-
tance of the Soviet Union's Technoexport.
Recent Developments
39.       The expenditure incurred so far in oil exploration by PED is esti-
mated at about US$20 million. Recognizing that it has neither the financial
nor the technical resources to undertake intensive oil exploration on its own,
PED has attempted to attract bilateral assistance and foreign oil companies
to explore in PDRY. As a result, AGIP (the Italian National Oil Company)
acquired exploration acreage twice, once in 1977 in the Sahyut basin and
again in 1979 in the Inter Hadramaut basin. AGIP has completed two offshore
exploratory wells in the Sahyut basin. Each of these wells encountered
encouraging shows of oil and gas, presently considered non-commercial. At
present, AGIP is conducting a seismic survey in anticipation of drilling
in the Inter Hadramaut block. Siebens Oil Company (Canadian independent)
acquired a block offshore Socotra Island in 1977 and drilled one well which
was a dry hole. Following its merger with Dome Petroleum, another Canadian
independent, Siebens relinquished its block in 1979 leaving this area largely
unexplored.
40.       In 1979 PDRY made a special effort to attract foreign companies
to participate in the exploration of the onshore basins. The three onshore
basins (para. 34) were demarcated into eight blocks: Shabwa, Hazar, Thamud,
North and South Sanau, Habrout, Howarin and Gheida (see Map). Of these the
Gheida block in the Inter Hadramaut basin and the North Sanau Block in the
Rub-al-Khali basin will be explored with Technoexport's assistance. Of the
remaining six onshore blocks, five were advertised in selected international
press in August 1979 and PED officials visited a number of European oil



- 12 -
companies to solicit their interest. The response thus far has been minimal
but indications are that the Shabwa block may be of some interest to an oil
company. The reason for this poor initial response is undetermined. It is
likely that the oil companies have higher priorities elsewhere due to the lack
of obvious -qtroleum prospects and very limited geologic data in the onshore
PDRY. Some companies may have been concerned with the perceived political
risk, and it is also possible that the method of advertising was ineffective.
41.       PDRY's general petroleum law allows exploration activities under
both production sharing contracts and joint venture agreements with foreign
companies. It is flexible enough to structure contracts differently for
separate areas. The offshore exploration contract with AGIP is based on
production sharing and provides for the recovery of the company's exploration
costs out of 40 percent of production, with the remainder to be shared with
PED on a sliding scale.  Imported equipment and supplies are exempt from
customs duties and company profits are not subject to local income tax or to
foreign exchange control. Although these terms have been sufficient to
create interest in offshore blocks, they may need to be improved for onshore
exploration considering the cost of obtaining additional geologic data and the
risks involved. However, it may be possible to decide on adequate contract
terms after the data generated by the proposed project have been collected and
interpreted as the Government will then have a better knowledge of the country's
petroleum potential.
Potential for Discovery
42.       Considering the large sedimentary areas in PDRY, the amount of past
exploration activity has been inadequate to assess the country's petroleum
resource potential. The five exploratory wells drilled thus far and the
limited seismic coverage of only fair quality data represent a small fraction
of the exploration required to evaluate the onshore potential. An adequate
program would require at least 15,000 line km of good seismic data and 20 to
40 exploratory wells. Such a program would cost, in 1980 prices, between
US$200 to US$400 million. While the potential for discovery of oil/gas in
PDRY is unknown at the present time, available evidence indicates that the
Rub-al-Khali and the Inter Hadramaut basins may have good prospects. The
mere presence of the Hathout structure in the Rub-al-Khali basin, even though
only partially identified provides encouragement. This basin has at least
some characteristics similar to the prolific Persian Gulf basin. The Inter
Hadramaut basin, soon to be tested offshore by AGIP, should also be considered
a good prospect, since it has the thickest sedimentary section (up to 6,000
m), and is generally analogous to the productive Dhofar coastal basin in Oman
to the east. Although the Shabwa basin remains virtually unexplored, avail-
able aeromagnetic data and surface Jurassic rocks suggest a shallow basement.
However, the presence of salt uplifts and reported surface oil shows are of
sufficient interest to carry out further exploration for oil/gas.
Exploration Strategy
43.       The alternatives available to PDRY for exploring onshore are limited.
The Government could continue its own effort with bilateral assistance, but
such an exploration program would be severely constrained by the lack of



- 13 -
adequate financial, technical and human resources, and would not be commensu-
rate with the efforts required to fully assess the onshore potential. PDRY
has already obtained assistance from the USSR in exploring the North Sanau
and the Gheida blocks, but additional aid from other sources does not appear
likely. Alternatively, the Government could attract foreign companies to
undertake exploration onshore, as they have done offshore. However, their
recent experience with this alternative has been disappointing (para. 40).
44.       Adding to the geologic data base onshore appears to be necessary to
attract the foreign oil company participation needed to mount an accelerated
exploration effort. The Government is conscious of this and has requested the
assistance of the Association in financing a modern seismic reconnaissance
program in the northern part of the country. This program would complement
the work being done in the North Sanau and Gheida blocks (USSR) and in the
Inter Hadramaut basin (AGIP) and should provide enough data of adequate
quality to confirm or negate the prospective nature of the northern onshore
area (Rub-al-Khali and the flanking North Hadramaut arch). The program would
be a first step in the assessment of this area (outside North Sanau) and
should enhance the chances of generating interest from oil companies.
The Role of the Association
45.       The Association's assistance to the petroleum sector will further
the Government's objective of initiating oil exploration activities in PDRY.
Through the proposed project, the Association would assist the Government in
obtaining key reconnaissance seismic data in the major onshore basin and
thereby better identify the geologic potential and risks in the area. It is
hoped that by acquiring an enhanced data base, the Government will be able to
interest foreign companies more readily. Moreover, the Association's presence
would also tend to attract companies which may otherwise hesitate to invest in
petroleum exploration. An equally important objective of the Association is
to strengthen PED's seismic crew by training its staff in the use of modern
seismic equipment, and in the more advanced techniques of seismic data process-
ing and interpretation.
Previous IDA Lending in the Energy Sector
46.       The proposed credit would be the first IDA lending to the petroleum
sector in PDRY. IDA assistance to the energy sector, however, began in 1978
with a credit of US$5 million for a power project in Wadi Hadramaut. This
credit together with loans of Kuwaiti Dinars 4 (about US$14.5) million from
the Arab Fund and Islamic Dinars 4.4 (about US$5.5) million from the Islamic
Development Bank, will assist in financing the construction of a 16 MW (4 x 4)
diesel power plant at Qaraw together with transmission and distribution lines,
substations and transformers, and training of the power corporation's staff.
The project will supply electric power to the country's principal agricultural
area.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
47.       At the request of the Government, a petroleum sector mission,
constituting part of an economic mission, visited PDRY in April 1979 and
identified the project. This was followed in July by a project preparation
mission accompanied by two petroleum consultants, an exploration geologist,
A. Dumestre (France), and a geophysicist, S.K. Paul (United Kingdom) and by
an appraisal mission in November 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington
in April 1980. The Yemeni delegation was headed by Dr. Farag Bin Ghanem, the
Minister of Planning and included a representative of PED. A map of the
project area is attached to this report. No staff appraisal report has been
prepared.
Project Objectives
48.       The objectives of the project are to assist the Government in
initiating petroleum exploration activities onshore in PDRY by supporting its
effort to attract foreign exploration investment, and to strengthen PED's
capability to obtain high quality seismic data and to interpret them. These
objectives are to be achieved through the two basic components of the project:
(i) a minimum of 15 months of seismic survey conducted by a foreign crew in
cooperation with the PED crew; and (ii) technical assistance to PED.
Project Description
49.       The project consists of the following components:
(a) Seismic Survey. A 15-month seismic survey (1 crew) to be carried
out along key reconnaissance lines in the Hazar, Thamud, South
Sanau, and Habrout blocks with possible extension into the Howarin
and Shabwa blocks. An estimated 1800 to 2000 line km out of a
potential program of 2400 line km will be surveyed during the
period, providing quality regional seismic coverage over much of the
North Hadramaut Arch and that part of the southwest extension of the
Rub-al-Khali basin which lies in PDRY. This survey is flexible so
that it could be adjusted based on the results obtained and as
warranted by geologic conditions. To overcome problems imposed
by difficult terrain, the seismic crew will be appropriately equipped
to change the mode of transport (tracked vehicles, helicopters,
etc.) and to utilize several varieties of energy sources (vibrators,
dynamite and primer cord) as required. Annex IV contains a detailed
description of the proposed seismic survey. The current PED crew,
whose equipment is generally in poor condition, would be merged with
an expatriate crew. This would provide the expatriate crew with
trained local labour and some local technical capability. The PED
crew would obtain on-the-job training both in survey procedures and
in operating modern sophisticated seismic equipment. After 15
months, PED would have the option to purchase the seismic equipment
used under the proposed seismic contract.



- 15 -
(b) Technical Assistance
(i) Geophysical consultant services (55 manmonths). A competent
geophysical management firm will be hired as consultants
to provide assistance to PED for the seismic survey. This firm
would supply a minimum of three experienced personnel:
a project manager, a quality control supervisor and a seismic
interpreter. The project manager will advise PED on tendering,
bid evaluation and other procurement procedures, specific
layout of the seismic program (location of lines) and subse-
quent changes, if any. The project manager would also supervise
the activities of the other two experts. The quality control
supervisor will represent PED in maintaining proper procedures
and quality checks on the seismic crew. The seismic interpreter
will make a geologic interpretation of the seismic lines during
the progress of the survey, coordinate the processing of the
data,and produce a set of maps on several key horizons at the
termination of the project.
(ii) Accounting/Auditing Services (17 manmonths). An accountant
will be appointed to maintain proper records of project
accounts and prepare quarterly reports. All the consultants,
including the three mentioned in (i) above, will be responsible
for training at least one PED counterpart in their respective
fields. The services of the accountant may be incorporated
into one contract together with the consultants' services in
(i) above.
(iii)  Training (6 manmonths).  Short periods of specialized training
courses and conferences abroad will be provided for selected
PED professionals, particularly in the areas of seismic record
processing, seismic interpretation, seismic data gathering and
quality control.
(c) Promotion Services. Exploration Consultant (15 manmonths). An
experienced individual or firm will be appointed to assist PED in
reviewing the results of the project, co-ordinating all pertinent
geologic data from past exploration or in areas adjoining the
project area, and in devising a strategy and procedures (including
maps and cross-sections) to promote for exploration the more promis-
ing areas with petroleum potential to foreign oil companies. In
addition, the consultant will also assist PED in negotiations with
interested companies, as required.
Project Implementation
50.       The project would be implemented by PED with the assistance of
consultants with experience, qualification and terms of employment acceptable
to PED and the Association. PED is in the process of recruiting the geo-
physical management consulting firm whose appointment would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). It



- 16 -
is expected that the quality control supervisor, seismic interpreter and
accountant would be mobilized two months prior to the start of the seismic
program, whereas the project manager is expected to be mobilized earlier to
assist PED with the tendering process and in designing the specific layout of
the seismic program (para. 49(b)(i)). The cost of his services incurred prior
to the signing of the proposed credit is being financed by a US$100,000
advance from the Project Preparation Facility approved by the Association in
April 1980.
51.       The proposed seismic program will be carried out jointly by a
foreign seismic contractor and the PED crew. The foreign seismic contractor
will be wholly responsible for the execution of the seismic survey and super-
vision of PED personnel. The PED crew will participate on a full-time basis
in the contractor's operation. These arrangements are current practice in
the geophysical contracting industry and no unusual difficulty is expected.
Furthermore, adequate safeguards will be provided in the seismic contract to
forestall personnel, technical and logistic problems. In order to ensure
efficient and timely execution of the project the Borrower and PED has
agreed that:
(i) the seismic work will be undertaken by the contractor with full
participation of a seismic crew from PED. This participation will
include on-the-job training in modern seismic methods of operation
(Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.03(a) and 3.04(a));
(ii) PED shall provide from its own staff full time personnel for
a project implementation unit consisting of a project
coordinator, a quality control supervisor, a seismic inter-
preter, a geologist, a geophysicist and a project accountant.
These personnel will act as counterparts to the geophysical
consultants who will train them in project management,
quality control and seismic data interpretation. The estab-
lishment of the project unit would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a));
(iii) until completion of the proposed seismic survey no other seismic
project requiring resources from PED which might adversely affect
the implementation of the proposed survey would be undertaken
without prior consultation with the Association (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.06(c)); and
(iv) procedures shall be adopted to enable PED to liaise with concerned
Governmental Departments to solve all problems (including finding
office and living accommodation and importation and local procure-
ment of supplies) encountered in implementing the project (Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(c)).
52.       The seismic program to be carried out under the project should be
completed by June 1982 and evaluation of the data and promotion program should
be ready for implementation no later than September 1982. The Borrower has
agreed that it shall make the areas covered by the proposed seismic program
available for further commercial exploration only after such work is completed



- 17 -
and shall submit to the Association for review, not later than three months
after the completion of the seismic program a report summarizing its results
and their plans for further exploration promotion (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 3.05). The key phases of project preparation and implementation
are as follows:
(i) selection of geophysical management consultant
services                                            May 1980
(ii)  issue tender for seismic contractor                    July 1980
(iii)  award of seismic contract                              October 1980
(iv) start of seismic survey (dependent on crew
availability)                                        January-April 1981
(v)  completion of seismic program                          March-June 1982
(vi)  selection of exploration consultant                    January 1982 1/
(vii)  promotion package completed                            September 1982
Project Cost Estimates
53.       The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes, is estimated
to be US$10 million equivalant including a foreign exchange component of US$9
million (90 percent). PED is exempt from paying custom duties and taxes. The
major portion of the project cost is the seismic contract amounting to US$6.45
million (65 percent). Technical assistance including provision for repayment
of the US$100,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility and promotion
services amount to US$1.5 million, and an estimated US$1 million is allocated
for the purchase of used equipment from the seismic contractor or appropriate
new equipment in order that PED may carry on follow-up seismic programs. No
physical contingencies have been provided for since the scope of the program
will be adjusted from time to time according to the results obtained and to
the remaining funds available. Price contingencies estimated at 10 percent of
the base cost amount to US$1 million. Estimated costs by project components
are given in the Credit and Project Summary.
54.       The cost of contracting a suitable foreign seismic crew including
mobilization, survey components, and record processing are based on recent
estimates for the cost of such components and services. Geophysical manage-
ment consultant services will be provided by a geophysical management firm
and are estimated to require about 72 manmonths at a total cost of about
$1.25 million. The average manmonth cost (based on the individual's fees,
international travel and local allowances) is expected to be about US$17,400.
This amount includes provision for a frequent rotation schedule of the expa-
triate personnel (due to harsh working conditions), the cost of vehicles, and
1/   Selection of exploration consultants could be advanced if attractive
areas are uncovered early in the program.



- 18 -
local travel. The promotion consultant services, estimated to cost US$250,000,
include 8 manmonths of exploration consultant services and 7 manmonths of
negotiating services as and when required. The average manmonth cost (based
on individual fees, international travel and local allowances) is expected
to be about US$16,700. The total estimated cost also include- provision for
the cost of vehicles and local travel. The cost of training is estimated at
US$5,000 per training course, seminar, and conference. These amounts are
deemed to be reasonable and in line with current charges prevailing in the
petroleum industry for the expertise and experience level required of these
persons and the field locations.
Financing
55.       The proposed IDA credit of US$9 million will cover 100 percent of
the foreign exchange costs. This amount includes US$100,000 to refinance the
advance from the Project Preparation Facility (para. 50). Local costs of US$1
million would be financed by the Government. These expenditures are primarily
for the salary of the PED crew and cost of support services provided to the
foreign crew and to the consultants. It is possible that the Government
may be able to recover a part of the project cost by selling to potential
investors the results obtained from the seismic survey to be carried out under
the project. In the event this occurs, the Government has agreed to recycle
such funds into energy related activities (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.02).
Procurement
56.       Procurement of seismic services will be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Since it is
expected that by project completion the PED crew will be capable of under-
taking seismic projects of limited scope to follow up on the proposed program,
the seismic contract will provide PED with the option to purchase the equip-
ment, which would otherwise have to be repatriated, at the termination of the
contract. At that time PED with the assistance of the geophysical management
consultants will prepare a report to determine the condition and value of the
equipment and make recommendations either to purchase this equipment or appro-
priate new equipment. Prior to the purchase PED will submit the above report
and recommendations to the Association for review and concurrence. Purchase
of new equipment will be made after obtaining quotations from suppliers from
not less than three member countries and Switzerland.
Disbursement
57.       Disbursements from the proposed credit for the seismic survey would
be for 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local expenditures
(the foreign exchange equivalent) for imported items procured locally; and 100
percent of foreign expenditures for consultant services, for overseas training
of PED staff and for the purchase of seismic equipment. Funds to purchase the
seismic equipment will be disbursed after the Association has received and
concurred with the recommendations submitted by PED and their consultants
(Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, Paragraph 3).



- 19 -
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
58.       PED would keep separate project accounts.  PED's overall accounts
would be audited by the Central Board of Audit, an autonomous body in PDRY
which is acceptable to IDA. PED would submit audit reports to the Associa-
tion no later than six months after the closing of the fiscal year starting
with FY1980. PED would submit quarterly and completion reports on the imple-
mentation of the project in a format acceptable to the Association.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       The primary benefit of the exploration components (assistance to PED
and seismic survey) would be to uncover prospects sufficiently attractive to
oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. It is expected that four
blocks would be ready to be offered to oil companies as early as 1982. The
project will also contribute substantially to the advancement of knowledge of
the petroleum potential of PDRY and thereby assist the Government in planning
rationally for the future development of the sector.
60.       The principal risk is that prospects attractive to oil companies may
not be identified. This risk will be minimized by the key reconnaissance line
approach to be adopted under the project which will provide maximum geographic
coverage. An associated risk is that the type of quality data needed to
attract foreign oil companies may not be acquired. This risk will be minimized
during the project through the use of experienced consultants who will monitor
quality and maintain flexibility in the methods of data acquisition and
selection of survey lines.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
62.       Features of special interest in the Development Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness
are the establishment of the project unit and the appointment of the geophysical
management consulting firm (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 4, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TA8LE 3A
YEMEN POR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEEt
REFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AIERAGES
LAND AREA (TROUSAXD SQ, vcm.1             YZHt 7DR- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            333.0                                                 SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     92.3                                MOS RECENT      CEOGRAPHIC    INCOME      INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION Ic  GROUP Id   GROUP /I
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    *-          *      420.0          1532.5      209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUN?TION PtR CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS Or COAL EQUIVALCNT)    299.0       463.0    324.0            S38.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAT          AR (MILLIONS)       L.3        1.S        1.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0       32.1      34.3            49.0        16.2        24.2
POPULATION PROJIECTIONS
POPULATION IN TER 2000 (MILLIONS)                       3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        7.0
YEAR STATtONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       4.0         4.5        S.0            19.9       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     14.0        16.0      18.0           99.0       252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.3        44.1       45.0            45.6       43.1        45.2
L5-64 YRS.                        54.0        53.2      32.0            51.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.7         2.7       3.0             2.8         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROTR RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         1.9/f     1.9/f           3.0        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              ..         3.2       3.2-            5.2        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.0        49.0      49.0            43.7       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOSAND)    29.0         24.0       19.0           13.5        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          3.5      3.5             3.2        2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT or AID   o )    ..              ..        ..              ..        12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         94.9        92.0    102.0             90.8       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                  84.0        84.0      84.0            99.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS Ptt DAY)         56.3        56.0      57.0            63.6       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        37.0         ..            16.0      13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    54.0        38.0      31.0            15.9       18.5         11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0       43.0      47.0            53.8       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER TEOUSAND)  ..         ..        ..              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..      24.0            56.4       26.3        34.4
URJAN                              ..          ..      30.0            83.4       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0            34.3       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            59.1       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            78.2       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            26.4        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PiHYSICIAN             ..    32380.0   9210.0           3677.0   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..         ..   1650.0           1730.6    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                              *-       1980.0    860.0           577.0    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..          ..        ..            21.8       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSZEOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..             5.8        5.3         5..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             5.5        4.9         5.1
URAL                               ..          ..        ..             6.0        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      22.0/h          45.1       22.5        28.1
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            67.9       17.8        45.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       1.6/h            ..         .          9.9



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                    Page 2 Of 5
TABLE 3A
YEHEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YV1EN rDR                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AJER.AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAflE    NEXT HIGHER
4OST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROU? /d    GROU? /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 13.0        61.0       78.0            85.0        63.3        82.7
MALE                  20.0        96.0      107.0           103.7        79.1        87.3
FEMALE                 5.0        24.0      48.0             66.0       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         10.0      19.0            27.6        16.7        21.4
MALE                   8.0        15.0      30.0             39.2        22.1        33.0
FEMALE                2.0          4.0       8.0             20.8        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   5.0           3.0       2.0              4.3        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0        31.0       30.0             32.6       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          21.0        20.0       23.0             23.4       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..           ..      27.1/            41.4       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0         7.0        6.9            16.7         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         52.0       104.0         ..            147.9       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..        16.0       18.0             36.0        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..          1.0        ..             17.9        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           2.4        ..              2.9        1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       300.0       310.0      416.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    4.2         4.8        5.0             8.6        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.5        64.7       62.0            43.0        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.6        17.6       20.0            23.7        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.2         27.4      26.6             26.7       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 53.4         51.5      49.8             46.4       52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                2.3         2.7        2.7              5.1       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.3         2.1        1.9              1.8        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBLUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..            21.4          ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP WOCSEBOLDS    ..            ..        ..             48.6         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEoLDS       ..           ..        ..              5.3         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCINT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             15.0                   16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..           201.3        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..     140.0            134.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      90.0           288.6        91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0           170.0        54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPUMATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCZNT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            22.9        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       20.0            31.2        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populstion-weighted geometric means, excluding the e"tre.e
values of the indicator and the most populaced country in each group. Coverage of countries among :he
indicators depends on availability of dats and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervist noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: for 1970, bet.een 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 end 1977.
/c    North Africa 6 Middle East;  /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incoce
(1281-550 per capita, 1976);  7f  Due to migration to neighboring countries population growth rate is
lower than rate of natural increase;  L/  A-. 1964-66;   /h  2 population;   /i  ages 10 and -oer.
Most Recent Estitate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 23 -                                                             ANNEX I
-3oage 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
&jg,: The adjusted group averages Ior each indicator are popolation-weighted geometric means, excluding the xtr.ene values of the indicator and thi moot
populated country is each group. Coverage of countries among the indicatoro depends on availability of data and i not uniform. Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters end indicators of access to water and escrots dispoas., housing, income distribhtion and poverty arc
simple populatisn-eightod geometric means without the exclunsio  of entrame valuos
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kh)                                                              Popaistion pon hospital bhd - tcol, urhuo  cod roral - Fopuiation (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land eras and inland water.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective n=bher of hoapital bhds
Agriculnural - Most recant etimt te of agricultural area used temporarily                 availaibl  in public and pritane gatteal ad epocislized hospitat cod vs-
or pormanently for crops, pastures. mrket snd kitchen gardenn or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals cro estublishments pernanently ataffed by
ie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Ettablishmestn providing principally custodial
curs are non incsded. Rural hospitals, however, includs health cnd medi-
Gfr PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices.                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (bht by a medical as-
calculated by same conversoin method as World B-nk Atlas (1975-77 basis);               si.t.nt,  -urs, mid-if.,  tc.) which offer ic-poticnt accommodaout-  and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilitic..
Admissions per hospital bhd - Total n.hber of adrissons to or dischbrges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual conseoption of ct--ercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the numbs e  of beds.
(coal and lignita, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gec-
thermal eleotricity) in kilograms of coal equi-sl-t per capita.                    IOUSINO
Av.raIe site of household (Persos.  per hoasehold) - total.  rbha, and coral-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individuals who share living q-acte-s
Total  uopulation, mid-year (millions) - As of JuIl  1; if not evailable,                 and their main meals   A boardcr or lodg-r may or may not bh  Included iz
average of two end-year estImates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for sratisnical purpoes   Stotintical defiinitos of hosus-
Urban poulation (Dercent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions  of urben areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of dote among countries.                                                               ber of persons per roar in all, urhan, and rural aoupied c..venticnal
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respsonively.  Dwellings esolude non-per-anent  arncrudes cod
Per  sq. k. - Mid-year population par square kilometee (100 heotares)                   unoccupied prts.
of tntal  rea.                                                                       Access to electricity (Percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and Turao        -
Pee sq  kh. agriculture land - Computed as sbove for agricultural land                  Conventiosal dwellings with electricity is livinf quarters as per-entage
only                                                                                   of trtal, otbhe, and raral duellisgo respectivel.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and ever) as percestages of mid-              EDUCATION
year population                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Populatisn growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Composnd annual                  Primary school - total, and fenale - Total and female onrollment cf all agen
growth rates of total end urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as p-tcentagen of r-spectiv-lv prinary school-age
1960-70, sod 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 .roon bht adjasted for
Crude birth rats (ner thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lesgths of primary educatios; for c.outries vith aniv-rual cdi-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages anding in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent sincs tome pupils are below cr
1970 and Shea-year avsraga ending in 1975 for moat regent estimate,                     bove the official school age.
Crude death rate (nor thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Soodary school - total, and female - Compoted us aoheo;  ecncnducy edoac-
year population; ten-ysar arithmetis averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tios reqires_  ot leant four years of approved primary Instroctoot; pro-
nd five-year average eding in 1975 for moat recant estiate.                            oides general vocatisonl, or toucher training inetrutiriots fr pupils
Gr.sn reproduction rate - Arerage number of daughters a coman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses ura genarally
in her normal seproduotive period if as. msperien.e.  pre.snt age-                     ecludsd.
speciSic fertility rmtee; usually five-year av-rSgee ending in 1960,                 Vocational en     1ino  Socret of n darol - Vucatio.al institutiosa in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        cluds tehnial., industrial, or other program-   hich operate independently
'amily plassics - ac_ eptor., annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or ac dopartmentn  of secondary istitutions.
ucceptors of birth-eontrol devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and seseoduet - moral students enrolled 0n
planning prora.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by oumbern of teach-rs in the cor-e-
Family planning - users (percnnt of married comas) - Percentage of                        apondtng levels.
married women of child-boarieg age (15-44 years) who ace birth-nontrol              Adult litorocy rate (percent) - Literante  dult  (able ro rcad cnd trite) us
d-vi..s no a11 mtrried women in same age group.                                        a percentag  of total adult population aged 11 years and over
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Indes of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                  Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Pa.sesger cars conprise noito  curs
capita a.nn-l productioe of all food commodities.                                    ceatiog lent tbha  eight personsi; nocldes ambulanoes, hearsen sod nilitory
Per capiro sanely of calonies  (Percent of raquiremasne) - Computed fron               vehicles.
neorgy equievalnt of set food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thouxcnd popalation) - All typos of rocaivern for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thoussnd of Population;  cledes unlicensed
a    tporos, and changes in stock.  Nat e-pplien aolude animal feed, seeds,          receivers in countries and in yosts cnen regist-rtion of rodLo seen sax in
quantities used in food processing, and loses in distribution.  Rn-                  offet; data for recant yearn may not be conp-rable since most countries
qairemoot. were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               aboliohed licensig.
mul aotivity and health considering environnentol teaperature, body                 TV receivers (per thouncd cpopltion) - TV recnivers far broadcast to genera
weighte, age and .ex distributions of population, and allowing if per-                 public per thousand population; ecloden u  icons. ed TVreoeivers to coon-
cent far caste at household level                                                      tries and in yeaors  hen registrution  of TV sets              ff
For capita supply of protein (grams per dav) - Protein eontent of per                 Nwspaper circulation  (per thouseod oulatian) - Shows the .e.rage circola-
capita net supply of food per day.  Not *pply of food is defined  s                    tion of "daily gener-l interest new.paper", dofined as a poriodical publi-
shore   Requroaments for all cauntrima established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording geoe 1eI s   I t   considered to
a     minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 groex              be "doily" if it appears at loot four times a webk
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gros should be animal protrin.             Cisema annual attendon- pIr  capitaor ve-r - Basd on thc ncboer of tickets
These stondards are lower than those uf 75 grams of total protein and                  sold during the year, incloding adnisonas to drive-in cinemos and rohbl
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    onits
FAO in the Third world Food Survey.
Per casira protein sanely from asimal and pulse - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMEST
derived from animals aed polses is grams per day                                    Total labor force (thuasands) - Eco-ooic-lly  Oct,i- pottons, includ-g ermnd
Child (ges 1-4) enrt lity rate (per thousand) - Annual deatha por throa-                  frosee  and unemployed ebu  excloding bousessors, students, e.   Defilni-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in various  Iouotries *ro sot comparabl
Female (percent) - Female lhor S frce as pe-ccntagd  Sf total labor frce.
HEALTh                                                                                 Agriculnare (percent) - Lohor force in f-aring, for-r-ry, hunting  nd fishiong
Life espeotanoy at birth (years) - Averege number of years of life to percentage of  toal labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-ypar averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (Percent) - tboor  force in mining. constroct on, manufacturin  and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gan as percentge of total labor forc.
Inast mortalIty rat (car thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   participatio- rats (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of aga per thousand lire biehte.                                              0eo   labor force as peocen-ree'  of their  -especricn populacions
Acces  to safe water (earcent of sonolatios) - total. urban. and rural -                  These are ILOPs sdjosced participaton- raerr  rmt-octinv  o,-se'
Number of people (total, urban, end rural) with reasonable access no ttnoct-tr-  of the popolo-i-e  -nd  o-f tlim  trend.
.afe cater supply (includes ttea.ed surasf.   watere or entreated but               Econo  depeodeocy ratioa- Recd  of popolation lrnuer 1S ard tI and coot to
ancootamisoted watee such as that from protected borehole, spings,                      the labor forc          g     -    1-6  yr
and sanitary celia) as percentages of their respective populations.
In as urban are  a publo  fountain or  tandpost located sot more                   INCOM4E DISTRIBUTION
thee 20C inseam  from a house may be considered os being withi reo-                 Percentage or orivate incoe  (both in cash and kind) -e-civ-d be ticht  5
so-able access of that house.  in rural arena  reasonable access woold                  percent, richest 20 percent, poore-r 20 perceot, snd poorest a0 percono
_mply that the hoosowife or members of the hbosehold do not have to                    of hAcsehld.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e.orera disposal (percen of cepularion) - total, urban, end                  Estimated absolute poverty 000000 lecol (110  per capita) - crbon and rural -
rural - Nomber of people (total, urban. asd rural) nerved by osrens                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below vhioh as inin
disposal an percentages of their respeotive populations.  Erreta                        nutritionally edeqootr  diet pl s cen-tial voo-food requir m nts Is not
disposl mayv include the colleotion and disposal, with or without                       afford.ble.
treatmest, of human escrena cnd waste-water by water-bor-e syctent                  Estimated relative poverty income level (tS) per scaita) -ohben and total -
or the axe of pit privies and similar ioatalation R.elative poorty income loevel i b thatone lovol less than one-third
Fopsistls pet phosicias - Population divided by sumber of precticing                     pec capita p--lona  income of he country
phpsioiaeo qualified fran a medical nobool at oniveroiny level.                     fasimaned poPuiaticn bolos poverty income level (percent) - urhan sod total -
Population per sorsing percon - Population divided by number of                           Percent  of population (urban and total) vhoare either "ahsolute coot" or
pruoticing male apd female graduate nurses, pototi-al nurses, and                       "relative poor" vhichever - greeter.
cssistant nurses.
Eocoonomi und Social lots Division
ftonomic bosi'onis cod Pro(ecn ions Department



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                  Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1978
US$ mln        %
GNP at market prices                      792         100
Gross Domestic Investment                 240          30
Gross National Savings                    171          22
Exports of goods & NFS                     93          12  Annual Rate of Growth (T)
Imports of goods & NFS                    427          54       (constant prices)
1973-78           1978
GDP at factor cost                        497         100        7              14
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries               78          16        3              -1
Industry 2/                           62          12      10               27
Infrastructure 3                     126          25      16               12
Trade, Real Estate, Finance          124          25        7               3
Other Services                       107          22       4               14
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                 4                                   Preliminar-
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)               1974/75 -   1975 4/  1976   1977    1978    1979
Total receipts -/                         23.1       17.0      32.1   43.4    56.0    62.7
Current expenditures                      27.6       25.6      39.2   47.4    61.4    72.0
Current deficit                           -4.5       -8.6      -7.1   -4.0    -5.4    -9.3
Development expenditures                  20.7       19.1      39.2   56.9    59.9    73.9
Overall deficit                          -25.2      -27.7    -46.3  -60.9   -65.3   -83.2
Borrowing from Banking System             11.4       10.1      15.6   18.5    17.4    25.5
Other Assets and Accounts 6/             -15.0       12.5      -2.0   -1.4    -6.7       2.6
External Financing                        28.8        5.1      32.7   43.8    54.6    55.1
MONEY AND CREDIT                            1974       1975      1976   1977    1978    1979
(million Y.D., Outstanding, end Period)
Money and quasi-money                      55         67        98      140     168      217
Bank credit to Government                  24         37        62       72       87     110
Bank credit to non-Gov't. Sector Z/        19         24        31       49      59       61
1/ Provisional.
2/ Includes petroleum refining and mining.
3/ Includes electricity and water, construction, transport and communications.
4i The fiscal year was April 1-March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became April 1-
December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
5/ Includes current & development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
6/  Includes the change in the Balance of the Development Fund (- = increase).
7/ Includes public sector agencies.



- 25 -                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)       1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Exports 11                                  8      8      26     25      18
Imports /1                              -190   -179   -268   -364   -387
Trade Deficit                           -182   -171   -242   -339   -369
Non-factor Services, net                   22     17      24     18      17
Factor Services, net                       48     59    122    187    265
Workers' Remittances                   (41)   (56)  (115)  (180)  (258)
Inveatment Income                       (7)    (3)    (7)    (7)    (7)
Current Account Deficit                 -112    -95    -96   -134    -87
Official Transfers                          1     10      46     55      36
Official M i LT Capital, net               60     47      72     70      94
Gross Disbursements                    (60)   (48)   (74)   (71)   (95)
Repayments                              (-)   (-4)   (-2)   (-1)   (-1)
Miscellaneous Capital (incl. errors
& omissions)                           43      25       5     28      43
Change in Official Reserves
(- = increase)                          8      13    -27    -19    -86
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)         68     55      82    101    187
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                               Average 1977-78
US$ Million Percent
Fish & Fish Products                            12          60
Agricultural                                     5          25
Industrial                                       1           5
Other                                            2          10
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1979)               US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                  915
Of which:  Disbursed                            372
Debt Service Payments in 1979                       5
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods
and Services, Including Remittances)            1.4 Percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971             As of December 1971          As of February 1973
US$ 1.00 - YD 0.42                 US$ 1.00 h YD 0.38           US$ 1.00 = 0.34
YD 1.00 w US$ 2.40                 YD 1.00 = US$ 2.61           YD 1.00 = US$ 2.90
/1   Net of re-exports.
/2   Based on preliminary estimates of exports of goods and services.
April 19, 1980



- 26 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1980)
------   $ Million--------
Credit                                               Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year   Borrower           Purpose           IDA              Undisbursed
Credit 240 YDR fully disbursed                       1.6                   -
370-YDR  1973    PDRY           Fisheries /1         5.1                  0.12
494-YDR  1975    PDRY           Education I          5.4                  1.66
560-YDR  1975    PDRY           Highways II /2      15.5                  2.66
584-YDR  1976    PDRY           Aden Port. Rehab.   3.2                   1.14
615-YDR  1976    PDRY           Wadi Hadramout       7.0                  3.22
768-YDR  1978    PDRY           Wadi Tuban           5.2                  4.50
829-YDR  1978    PDRY           Power                5.0                  4.73
S21-YDR  1978    PDRY           Water Supply Eng.
Credit              1.2                 0.53
865-YDR  1978    PDRY           Education II         4.0                  4.00
932-YDR  1979    PDRY           Fisheries II /3    10.0                  10.00
Total                                          63.2                32.56
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                          63.2
Total undisbursed                                                  32.56
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1980)
PDRY is not a member of IFC.
/1   Including Supplementary Credit of $1.6 million of February 6, 1975.
TY   Including $0.6 million of Credit S12-YDR of November 17, 1972 refinanced
under Credit 560-YDR.
/3   Approved June 12, 1979:  Credit not yet effective.
NOTE: Exchange adjustment not included.



- 27 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 370-YDR - Fisheries Project: $3.5 Million Credit of April 12, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6 Million Supplementary Credit of
February 6, 1975; Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1975; Closing Date: August
31, 1980.
The project is now nearing completion. The major component, the
fish cold store and freezing facility at Mukalla became operational, after
a two-year delay, in June 1978. The delay was primarily due to the difficul-
ties encountered in finding a suitable project manager and cost overruns
requiring supplemental financing, which was approved by the Association in
January 1975. The smaller receiving station at Shihr is now fully opera-
tional, and the 100 fishing vessels financed under the credit have all been
delivered.
Cr. No. 494-YDR - Education Project: $5.4 Million of July 12, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This credit will assist the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and meet priority manpower needs.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but is about 2 years behind
appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective
and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant architects
and (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting design
completion. Civil works on the construction of new premises, and extension
and rehabilitation of the existing schools are expected to be completed by
September 1980 in time for the start of the academic year 1980/81. Deliveries
of furniture and about 80 percent of equipment are completed with the balance
expected by early 1980. The fellowship program is proceeding well except that
three candidates for agricultural training have yet to be found.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 560-YDR - Second Highway Project: $15.5 Million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Eco-
nomic Development. Since international competitive bidding for the construc-
tion element of the project produced no responsive bids, arrangements were
made for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which
is assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the project
area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of domestic
skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction equip-
ment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about 2 years behind the appraisal estimate. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 55 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 20 per-
cent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of rock
that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works needed
because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction equip-
ment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have been
procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic studies
and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan road. Consultants (Sotechni-
Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the overseas
training program is underway with six Yemeni engineers having completed 9-12
months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany). Candidates
remain to be nominated for the remaining four fellowships programmed.
Cr. No. 584-YDR - Aden Port Rehabilitation Project: $3.2 Million Credit
of September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The project which is being co-financed by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development will assist the PDRY Government in rehabilitating
the port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-handling,
workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabilitation of
the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical assistance.
All equipment except some navigational items have been received and most are
already in use. A cost accountant and a marine engineer have been appointed.
Cr. No. 615-YDR - Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project: $7.0 Million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8100
ha of irrigated land in the wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, construc-
tion of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision of



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
a date packaging plant and a rural water supply component. The start of
project implementation was delayed because of the difficulties encountered
in locating suitable expatriate candidates for the position of project
manager, irrigation engineer and an extensionist. The completion of the
project is, therefore, not expected until June 1981, about two years behind
the appraisal estimate. The Project Manager and the Extensionist have been
appointed and are now on site. A candidate for the post of Irrigation
Engineer has been identified and is in the process of being appointed. All
agricultural machinery and supplies have been procured.
Cr. No. 768-YDR - Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project: $5.2 Million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project seeks to increase water use efficiency and raise agri-
cultural production and farm income in Wadi Tuban through the use of modern
inputs and improved practices. It provides for credit to cooperatives and
state farms, construction of feeder roads, a village water supply scheme and
improved irrigation system; a water management study; an agricultural policies
study; and technical assistance and training. The Government, with assistance
from FAO has recruited all the expatriate experts except the farm machinery
specialist who will be appointed later. The Arab Fund which is co-financing
this project, approved its loan of $6.1 million in February 1980.
Cr. No. 829-YDR - Wadi Hadramout Power Project: $5.0 Million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project would provide an impetus to agricultural development
in Wadi Hadramout by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks. Insti-
tution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training abroad of PCEP's personnel, and consultants' services
for a tariff study, and a power development study. Soil testing of the
project site has been completed, and contracts for equipment and materials
(with the exception of construction equipment) have been awarded. Work on
the tariff study is underway.
Cr. No. S21-YDR - Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project:
$1.2 Million Credit of July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of studies to assist the Government in the
preparation of water supply master plans for the two largest urban agglomera-
tions, Aden and Mukalla; the assessment of potential water resources in
other populated areas of the country; and the elaboration of the first con-
struction phase of projects for the improvement and expansion of water supply
services in the areas under consideration. Technical assistance comprises



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
the formulation of appropriate administrative structures and financial poli-
cies for the national water authority and a tariff study. The feasibility
study has been completed, with the exception of the water supply master plan
for Mukalla, and as a result, the proposed project to rehabilitate the Aden
water system is being processed.
Cr. No. 865-YDR - Education II Project: $4.0 Million Credit of December 22,
1978; Effectiveness Date: June.18, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project will assist the Government in establishing three voca-
tional training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of a number of
additional VTCs to be constructed in other parts of the country to train
urgently needed skilled and semi-skilled workers. The project consists of
construction of an industrial, an agricultural and a commercial training
center, and the procurement of furniture and equipment. Arrangements for
fellowships to be financed from bilateral funds have been completed. In
spite of the project's initial satisfactory progress, implementation is
now about 10 months behind appraisal estimates due mainly to the delay in
finalizing designs and tender documents. Construction is expected to start
by May 1980. Contracts for furniture and equipment are expected to be
awarded around April 1980.
Cr. No. 932-YDR - Fisheries II Project: $10.0 Million Credit and $3 million
EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not
Effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in
the Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorerst and most remote regions
of PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo
port together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of
fish receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the develop-
ment of an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19
km road to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages
which would supply fish under the project. The project also includes a tech-
nical assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project
implementation and operation; experts to assist the Ministry of Fish Wealth in
fleet management, cold store operations and export marketing; and a national
study to assess nutritional deficiencies for a possible future IDA-financed
project. The credit is not yet effective because of delays encountered in
finalizing co-financing arrangements with the cofinancier which had been
identified earlier; alternative arrangements may have to be made.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a.   Time taken to prepare the project:        Eight months (July 1979 -
March 1980)
b.   Project prepared by:                      Government and IDA
c.   Date of first presentation to IDA:        April, 1979
d.   Departure of Appraisal Mission:           November, 1979
e.   Completion of negotiations:               April, 1980
f.   Planned date of effectiveness:            By October 31, 1980
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Condition of Effectiveness:
(a) Appointment of a geophysical management consulting firm (para. 50).
(b) Establishment of the project unit (para. 51(ii)).
2.   Condition of Disbursement:
Prior to the purchase by the Petroleum Exploration Department (PED)
of used seismic equipment from the seismic contractor or of new equipment, PED
to prepare and submit with the assistance of the geophysical management consul-
tants a report and recommendation to the Association for review and concurrence
(paras. 56 and 57).
3.   Measures to be Undertaken by the Borrower and PED:
(a) Full participation by a seismic crew from PED in the seismic
contractor's operation (para. 51(i)).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) until the completion of the proposed seismic survey no other
seismic project requiring resources from PED which might adversely
affect the implementation of the proposed survey would be undertaken
without prior consultation with the Association (para. 51(iii)).
(c) make the areas covered by the proposed seismic program available for
further commercial exploration only after such work is completed
and shall submit to the Association for review, not later than three
months after the completion of the seismic program a report summariz-
ing its results and their plans for further exploration promotion
(para. 52).
(d) procedures to be adopted to enable PED to liaise with concerned
Governmental Departments to solve all problems encountered in
implementing the project (para. 51(iv)).
(e) recycle funds obtained from the sale of seismic data generated under
the project into energy related activities (para. 55).



- 33 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 1
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED SEISMIC SURVEY
Background
1.        PED is currently conducting a seismic survey on the North Sanau
block which commenced several years ago. Results are judged to be fair to
good but progress is exceedingly slow due to frequent breakdowns in equipment
and difficult logistic problems.  The only prior modern seismic survey con-
ducted onshore in PDRY involved limited coverage by AMOCO on the South
Sanau block. It is understood that AGIP plans to begin an onshore survey in
its blocks adjacent to the coast. Therefore, over the greater part of the
sedimentary onshore basins no modern seismic survey has been made. The major
part of the proposed IDA credit is allocated for a 15-month seismic survey to
provide a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large
portion of the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in
the PDRY.
The Program
2.        After lengthy discussions with the Government of PDRY it was
agreed that the seismic program included in the proposed project would include
the Hazar, Thamud, South Sanau and Habrout blocks, an area of approximately
60,000 km2. These blocks cover that portion of the Rub-al-Khali basin lying
within the territory of PDRY, except for North Sanau, the North Hadramaut
Arch, and a portion of the north flank of the Inter Hadramaut basin. PDRY has
agreed to integrate this program with the PED work on the North Sanau block to
provide for complete coverage of the southern limb of the Rub-al-Khali basin.
The 15-month seismic program is estimated to obtain between 1,800 and 2,000 km
of key profiles tied together in a loose reconnaissance grid (about 20 pro-
files averaging 100 km long). Seismic lines would be laid out primarily in
the direction of sedimentary bed inclination (dip lines) with tie lines at
approximately right angles (strike lines).
3.        A reconnaissance seismic program covering such a large area involv-
ing a variety of terrain, part of which is quite rugged, requires substan-
tial flexibility to be successful; success in this case being defined as the
accumulation of high quality data in order to determine the nature of the
sedimentary rocks, the basic type and orientation of structuring that may
have affected these rocks, and the type of petroleum traps that might be
expected.  In a program such as this no profile can be wasted due to either
the inability to traverse the area (terrain problem), the recovery of poor
to nonusable data, or by continuing a profile in an area with very shallow
basement. On the other hand, the program may be enhanced by decreasing
the proposed grid dimension in areas that appear to be yielding interesting
results with respect to petroleum prospects.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
4.        Flexibility will be gained by three means:
(a) providing the survey crew with several types of equ;pment, i.e.,
large tire vehicles for sand dunes, tracked vehicles for rough
terrain, and man or helicopter portable equipment for very rough
terrain;
(b)  providing the survey crew with several types of energy source, i.e.,
vibrators, dynamite, and primer cord; and
(c) providing geophysical management to reduce or expand program depend-
ing on results obtained, i.e., about 2,400 line km of program will
be provided from which the 1,800-2,000 line km of profile will be
surveyed (the Bank geophysical consultant, Mr. S. K. Paul, has
already outlined a tentative seismic program).
Implementation
5.        Since the condition of the PED crew's equipment is in a poor state
of repair and since the PED crew professionals need further training in modern
seismic techniques, it is planned to merge the current PED crew with the
foreign seismic contractor selected, with the foreign party chief to be in
full operational control. Thus, the foreign crew would obtain a skilled labor
force immediately and the PED personnel would receive on-the-job training.
Under this arrangement the PED crew would retain its own entity for adminis-
trative purposes. At the conclusion of the 15-month survey either appropriate
new equipment or the equipment provided by the foreign contractor (para. 4
above) will be purchased by PED with Bank assistance in order that they may
continue seismic efforts on their own with modern equipment in a good state of
repair.



- WAS                                                                                                                  Th,s osap has Peso prepared by tha~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h, ,ph, b ~p~pd y h
IRAN                        46'                            48'                           50                             52'                       World .ank-s stff -1c-o-,velY foe
*004                                                                                                              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he repor,t soah,ch -S' asa-had
h5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~The d- -.--asoo  usd aod lh
ARAB                        fAPOLSdo -ot-tp/f, oorhe pars of tf0
REP                                                                              PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF YEMEN                                                                        ,ae. ,
EGYPT  -A                                                                                                                            jodgoseot 00 tOe /ega/ stasus of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jdgt- h./../Mt 
aoyssrrstsy or soy endor--eo
- tUNITED ARAB j                                  PETROLEUM                AND          MINERAL   BOARD                                                      or auu_pta... of ouch bo-odee--s
2h    t              EMIRATES  j~,   # a L
50 \  t-~~'  /Concession Areas
SUDAN r     YEMEN  v/ <o9s6t ,-
ri                             <~ CStructural Basins                                               ..
r                 tht iMANIs                       Concession Block Boundaries
.  SOMAiA                                  *      Exploratory Wells
ETHIOPIA     7                                   AG/P   Well Operator                                                            N   S A N A U
K.  40        /'/  AjO                _                O0    Selected Towns                                                                                                   O HothovI | P  OM  A N
-    -    Internotional Boundaries        \                                    * HO/hot/u-PEG              5                                   18o
18'
\                                                           4      /                       T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H A h.UD S.  S A N AU  T   _;-
......              ~~~~~Tau,c Sosotfro
- / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H A Z A R                               ;    =     D  \e, oEp,      oiy  mc
2,    )                                                i               / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-411Howzaf  Amoco  G Fi E I D A  / j
K            0..,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H0W         
t                              !         /        w   i            (       ~~~~~~~~~~~I N  t E R    -  H  A D  R  A  M  A U  T// & 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
-16t                   RY E  M E N PUBLiC
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ou
>   \   ~      ~~~~~~~ R     A   B L                                     H A      A 4 i                                                 ik-4l 
(n )~) W S i\N I                                                     I
14'                                                                                                                                                                                                   BA4
/                                                                                    F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C'         .        .         -,    * AD     E Lt       7 1      10 50  BOO  150  200  250  g  U)
~ADEN                                                                                                                                                      > PO___ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _
KILOMETERS                              Socotrae    *-s
.slond        I
44'                            46                              48                             50O                               52'                SODmah-Ssebeno



